TOWN OF ANSTED, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 9-4-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   General definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
10.07   Conflicting provisions
   
10.08   Separability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Charter reference:
   Codification of ordinances, see Charter §§ 42 and 68
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose penalties, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1 and 8-12-2(11)
   Adoption by reference of technical and other codes, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-4
(b)
   Maximum penalty permitted, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1 and 8-12-5(57)
   Repeal of ordinances, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-8
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, chapters, articles and sections shall be known and designated as the
Codified Ordinances of Ansted, West Virginia, for which designation “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code, chapter, article and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in this code.
   (B)   All references to codes, chapters, articles and sections are to such
components of this code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”
§ 10.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Fayette County, West Virginia.
   LAND or LANDS and REAL ESTATE or REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and
hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein except chattel
interests.
   LAWS OF THE STATE. Includes the Constitution of the State and the
Constitution of the United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance
thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Ansted, West Virginia.
   OFFENSE. Includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture or
punishment is imposed by law.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER. Includes corporations, societies, associations and
partnerships, and other similar legal business organizations.
   PERSONAL ESTATE or PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes goods, chattels, real and
personal, money, credits, investments and the evidences thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PRECEDING, SUCCEEDING or FOLLOWING. As used in reference to any section or
sections of an article, next preceding, next succeeding or next following that
in which such reference is made.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and building.
   PROPERTY or ESTATE. Embraces both real and personal estate.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia or any department, division, commission,
board, educational or other institution of the state.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises alone or with others.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing, engraving, writing or otherwise. But when the
signature of any person is required, it must be in his or her own proper
handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved or acknowledged. Unless a
provision of this code specifically provides otherwise, an electronic signature
satisfies this signature requirement if the electronic signature meets the
requirements of W. Va. Code § 39A-1-2.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (C)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last or, if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, it shall also be excluded.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-3)
   (D)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (E)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-9)
   (B)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-8)
   (C)   The repeal by any provision of this code of an ordinance validating
previous acts, contracts or transactions shall not affect the validity of such
acts, contracts or transactions, but the same shall remain as valid as if there
had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-11)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of this
code, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment of or supplement
to the section or group of sections so referred to or any section or sections
hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise provided, whenever a
reference to a section or group of sections is made in any amendment or
supplement to any section of this code hereafter enacted, such reference shall
be deemed to refer to the section or sections as the same shall then stand or
as thereafter amended.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (C)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters in the series are deemed to be included.
§ 10.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-5)
§ 10.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, articles or sections of this code
conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the latest
passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage
date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning
or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of this code and every part of each section is an independent
section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a part thereof
to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause does not affect the
validity or constitutionality of any other section or part thereof.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in this code or in any ordinance of the municipality, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided, whoever violates any
such provision shall be fined not more than $500, or by other such amount as
set by Council from time to time, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   JUDICIAL SYSTEM
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Reading of journal
   
30.03   Sergeant-at-arms
   
30.04   President pro tem; compelling attendance
   
30.05   Reading and vote on ordinances
   
30.06   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.07   Clerk
   
30.08   Authentication of records
   
30.09   Motions and resolutions
   
30.10   Demand of previous questions
   
30.11   Rules of debate
   
30.12   Control of rules
   
30.13   Draft of ordinances
   
30.14   Order of business
   
30.15   Procedure for ordinances
   
30.16   Copies of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Council procedure, see W. Va. Code Chapter 8, Article 9 and § 6-9A-3
   General powers of Council, see W. Va. Code § Chapter 8, Article 12
   Ordinances delegating discretion, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-2
   Ordinances regarding unfit building, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-16
   Powers and duties of the Mayor, see W. Va. Code § 8-10-1
   Powers of Council regarding ordinances, see W. Va. Code § 8-10-1
   Voting power of Mayor at Council, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-9-1, 8-9-2
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   The Council shall meet in regular public session at the Council Chamber in
the Town Building, at the hour of 6:30 p.m. on the first Thursday of each
month. Special meetings may be called as provided in the Town Charter.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 1)
§ 30.02 READING OF JOURNAL.
   The Mayor or President pro tem of the Council, as the case may be, having
assumed the chair and a quorum being present, the journal of the proceedings of
the previous meeting shall be read, to the end, that any alterations or
corrections may be submitted and entered of record.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 2)
§ 30.03 SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall attend all meetings of the
Council in the capacity of sergeant-at-arms; he or she shall, under the
directions of the presiding officer, aid in the enforcement of good order and
decorum, together with all such process as shall issue under authority of
Council.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 3)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT PRO TEM; COMPELLING ATTENDANCE.
   The presiding officer of the Council may call a member to the chair, who
shall exercise its functions for the time being. Any number of the Council less
than a quorum which may meet at any regular or special session may compel the
attendance of absent members of the Council.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 4)
§ 30.05 READING AND VOTE ON ORDINANCES.
   When an ordinance is offered, the Recorder or his or her designee shall
present and read the same, unless copies are given, and the same may be
approved, ratified, amended or rejected by a roll call vote, as provided by
law. The ordinance will be made available to the public five days in advance to
the first reading.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-4
§ 30.06 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The rules of parliamentary usage comprised in “Robert’s Rules of Order Newly
Revised” shall govern the Council in all cases not provided for by the rules of
Council and the Town Charter. In any case not governed by said manual or said
rules, the town shall be governed by the practice in the State House of
Delegates.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 7)
§ 30.07 CLERK.
   The Recorder or his or her designee shall be the Clerk and the custodian of
all records and papers of the Council.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 8)
§ 30.08 AUTHENTICATION OF RECORDS.
   All records of the Council shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Mayor and attested by the signature of the Recorder.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 9)
§ 30.09 MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS.
   All motions and resolutions, if desired by the presiding officer or any
member, shall be reduced to writing and shall be read by the Recorder before
the same shall be debated.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 10)
§ 30.10 DEMAND OF PREVIOUS QUESTIONS.
   (A)   If the previous question be demanded by not less than three members,
the presiding officer shall, without debate, put the question: “Shall the main
question now be put?” If this question be decided in the affirmative, all
further debate shall cease and the vote be at once taken on the proposition
pending before the Council.
   (B)   When the Council refuses to order the main question, the consideration
of the subject shall be resumed as if the previous question had not been
demanded.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 11)
§ 30.11 RULES OF DEBATE.
   (A)   No question shall be debated until it has been propounded by the
chair; and then the mover shall have the right to explain his or her view in
preference to any other member.
   (B)   When two or more members arise at the same time, the chair shall name
the person to speak; but in all cases, the member who shall first arise and
address the chair shall speak first. No one shall disturb or interrupt a member
who is speaking, without his or her permission except to call to order if he or
she is transgressing the rules.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 12)
§ 30.12 CONTROL OF RULES.
   No standing rule or order of the Council shall be rescinded, suspended or
changed except by a majority vote of the members elected to Council.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 13)
§ 30.13 DRAFT OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances introduced in Council shall be typewritten on one side only
of plain white paper and posted online five days in advance.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 14)
§ 30.14 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business for each meeting shall follow the posted agenda.
§ 30.15 PROCEDURE FOR ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances to be introduced in the Council at regular meetings. All
ordinances introduced shall be given serial numbers by the Recorder who is
authorized to edit and correct them as to form. When the time for introducing
ordinances is reached in the regular order of business, the Recorder shall
report each ordinance by its title and number in the same manner as if the
ordinance were introduced from the floor. This rule shall not apply to
committee substitutes, nor shall it deny any member the right to introduce an
ordinance from the floor in case of urgency.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 17)
§ 30.16 COPIES OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall be presented electronically on the town website and
available at the Town Hall, and shall show the name or names of the members
introducing the same over their signatures. The original copy shall be for the
permanent files of the Council; the second for the Committee Chairperson; and
the third copy for the press.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, § 18)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Employee Provisions; Surety Bonds
   
31.01   Duties of officers and employees
   
31.02   Official bonds and sureties thereon
Town Officials
   
31.15   Building Inspector
Elections
   
31.30   Municipal elections
Statutory reference:
   Employee compensation, see W. Va. Code § 8-5-12
   Municipal health officer, see W. Va. Code §§ 61-2-1 et seq.
   Officers bonds, see W. Va. Code § 6-2-11
**** EMPLOYEE PROVISIONS; SURETY BONDS ****
§ 31.01 DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Council shall prescribe the duties of all the officers and employees of
the town, where not proscribed by the Town Charter, and it shall be the duty of
all such officers and employees to perform faithfully and diligently all the
duties so prescribed by the Council, and the failure to do so by any officer or
employee of the town shall be deemed neglect of duty and good cause for
dismissal.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 41, § 1)
§ 31.02 OFFICIAL BONDS AND SURETIES THEREON.
   Any person appointed or elected to any office or position in the state who
is required by any statute to enter into or give bond, unless otherwise
provided, shall give official bond within 60 days after her or she has been
appointed or duly declared elected; but, if at the time of his or her
appointment or election shall be absent from the state, circuit, county or
district for which is appointed or chosen, shall give such bond within 60 days
after notice of his or her appointment or election. If no term of the court or
other tribunal authorized to take and approve such bond shall be held within 60
days after the appointment or declaration of the election of an officer
required by law to give bond and qualify before such court or tribunal, or
after the person, if absent from the state, county or district, is notified of
his or her appointment or election, shall give bond at the first term of such
court or other tribunal next thereafter held; provided, that the state
executive officers shall qualify on or before the first Monday after the second
Wednesday of January next after their election; provided further, that any
person appointed or elected to fill a vacancy in any office shall give such
bond within ten days after notice of such appointment or election, if the court
or other tribunal authorized to take and approve such bond shall sit within
said period; otherwise, at the first sitting of such court or other tribunal
after notice of such appointment or election. No person shall enter into or
discharge any of the duties of his or her office until shall have given the
bond required of by law.
(W. Va. Code § 6-2-1)
**** TOWN OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.15 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The Mayor, with the approval of the Town Council, shall
appoint a Building Inspector, whose common titles shall be Building Inspector,
Building Commissioner or Zoning Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, § 1)
   (B)   Duties. The Building Inspector shall have the authority to issue
building permits or improvement location permits within the jurisdiction of the
town. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to keep a record of all
applications for such permits and a record of all such permits issued with a
notation of all special conditions involved. The Town Clerk shall file and
safely keep copies of all plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of
the records of his or her office and shall be available for use of the Town
Council, Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals and other officials.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, § 2)
   (C)   Compliance. The Building Inspector shall not issue a permit for the
construction of any structure or improvement unless such structure or
improvement conforms to all other ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, § 3)
   (D)   Stop order. The Building Inspector shall have the authority to enter
all work stopped on construction or alteration or repair of buildings in the
town when such work is being done in violation of any of the provision of any
ordinance relating thereto, or in violation of any zoning ordinance. Work shall
not be resumed after the issuance of such an order except on the written
permission of the Inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an oral one,
it shall be followed by a written stop order within an hour. Such written stop
order may be served by any police officer.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, § 4)
   (E)   Entry powers. The Building Inspector shall have the power to make or
cause to be made an entry into any building or premises where the work of
altering or repairing or construction of any building or structure is going on,
for the purpose of making inspections, at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, § 5)
   (F)   Other titles and duties. The Building Inspector shall act as ex
officio Plumbing Inspector and shall have all the powers and perform all the
duties connected with that office. The Building Inspector shall act as ex
officio Electrical Inspector and shall have all the powers and perform all the
duties connected with that office. The Building Inspector shall act as ex
officio building permit officer and shall have all the powers and perform all
the duties connected with that office.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, § 6)
**** ELECTIONS ****
§ 31.30 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Municipal elections in the town are conducted in conformity with state law.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter I, Article 7)
Statutory reference:
   Permanent registration, see W. Va. Code § 8-5-13
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Town Policies
   
32.01   Town authority to sell property without an auction
   
32.02   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan
Municipal Bonds
   
32.15   Authorization for issuance
   
32.16   Sinking Fund
   
32.17   Cancellations
   
32.18   Refunding bonded indebtedness
Statutory reference:
   Indebtedness bonds limited, see Art, 10, § 8 of the State Constitution
   Public works; bonds, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-16-1 et seq.
**** TOWN POLICIES ****
§ 32.01 TOWN AUTHORITY TO SELL PROPERTY WITHOUT AN AUCTION.
   (A)   The town is committed to developing a positive impact on the visitors
to and citizens of the town through the use of the provisions of the state’s
Home Rule Program.
   (B)   It is the purpose and intent of this section to dispose of property
without auctions within the town limits.
   (C)   (1)   The town shall be permitted the sale of realty or personalty to
private purchasers without auction in such a manner that promotes economic
development or provides a service fee for the public good; to allow the lease
of realty or personalty to private lessees for less than market value if such
lease promotes economic development or provides a service for the public good;
to allow the sale of realty or personalty to private purchasers at less than
market value without auction in such a manner that promotes economic
development or provides a service for the public good; and to allow the lease
of real or personal property by the town at less than fair market value to
nonprofit lessees.
      (2)   However, this shall only be permitted in such instances when the
property in question has a fair market value of less than $15,000.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2021)
§ 32.02 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   Pursuant to W. Va. Code § 58A-3-8, the comprehensive plan prepared by the
Planning Commission for the town is made a part of this resolution by reference
and is hereby adopted without any amendments thereto entered into the official
minutes of the Town Council.
(Res. passed 8-7-2025)
**** MUNICIPAL BONDS ****
§ 32.15 AUTHORIZATION FOR ISSUANCE.
   The town may issue its bonds as provided by law, but no bonds shall ever be
issued by the town unless the issuance thereof shall have been authorized by a
proper ordinance and in strict conformity with and subject to all of the
limitations and conditions, as set out in the Constitution and statues of the
state governing the issuance and sale of municipal bonds.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, § 1)
§ 32.16 SINKING FUND.
   Whenever any bond of the town is issued, the sinking fund and interest fund
created for the liquidation of the principal and interest thereof shall, as
fast as collected, be paid into the hands of the Recorder to the credit of
these funds, and shall then be held by the Recorder sacred and inviolate for
the purposes for which the funds are created, and the funds shall cease to be
subject to the order of the Council, except, however, that the Recorder may
transfer such funds to the State Sinking Fund Commission, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, § 2)
§ 32.17 CANCELLATIONS.
   After the Council shall have approved any settlement made with the Recorder
covering the payment of any bonds and coupons, the bonds and coupons
surrendered at such settlement and reported to the Council having been by the
Recorder compared with the bond register, as provided in §
32.17, shall be cancelled by the Mayor, Recorder and any other officer of the
town whose name is affixed thereto, and delivered to the Recorder for
preservation in some safe place and his or her receipt taken therefor. Said
cancellation shall be effected by writing across the face of the bonds and
coupons in red ink the words “cancelled” and the date of the cancellation, and
by perforating the signatures of the town officials affixed thereto.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, § 4)
§ 32.18 REFUNDING BONDED INDEBTEDNESS.
   The Council may refund the lawful bonded indebtedness of the town in the
manner and as provided in W. Va. Code § 13-2A.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, § 5)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Budget Office
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Municipal Budget Office
   
33.04   Mayor’s offices
   
33.05   Powers and duties
   
33.06   Assistants and employees
   
33.07   Delegation of powers and duties
   
33.08   Requests for appropriations
   
33.09   Contents, form of appropriation request
   
33.10   Information concerning town finances
   
33.11   Examination of requests for appropriations
   
33.12   Appropriations for other than spending units
   
33.13   Tentative budget; itemization and preparation
   
33.14   Powers of Mayor in administration of expenditures
   
33.15   Reports on revenue collections
   
33.16   Management accounting
   
33.17   Expenditure schedules
   
33.18   Examination and approval of schedules; expenditures to accord
   
33.19   Reserve for emergencies as part of expenditure schedule
   
33.20   Requests for quarterly allotments
   
33.21   Limitation of expenditures
   
33.22   Transfer between items of an appropriations
   
33.23   Expenditure of excess in collections
   
33.24   Reports of spending units
   
33.25   Reduction of appropriations
   
33.26   Pro rata reductions in appropriations from General Fund
   
33.27   Pro rata reductions in appropriations from other funds
   
33.28   Expenditures procedure
   
33.29   Requisition for purchases
   
33.30   Annual inventories by spending units
   
33.31   Classification of employment and compensation
   
33.32   Certification of personnel by spending officer
   
33.33   Personnel, classifications and compensation schedules
   
33.34   Requisition for payment of personnel services
**** BUDGET OFFICE ****
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Budget Office.
   MAYOR. The Director of the Budget and Statistician.
   SPENDING OFFICER. The executive head of a spending unit or a person
designated by him or her.
   SPENDING UNIT. A department, agency or institution of the town government
for which an appropriation is requested or to which an appropriation is made by
the Council.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 1)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the efficient and
economical management of the financial affairs of the town by the creation of a
Town Budget Office, by providing uniform rules for the preparation of the town
budget and by providing a method for the planning management and control of
town expenditures and the equalization of the compensation of personnel.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 2)
§ 33.03 MUNICIPAL BUDGET OFFICE.
   There is created in the town government a Budget Office to be administered
by the Mayor. The Budget Office shall act as staff agency for the Council in
the exercise of its budget powers and duties under the Charter and general law,
and it shall exercise and perform the other powers and duties conferred upon it
by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 3)
§ 33.04 MAYOR’S OFFICES.
   The Mayor and his or her recorded offices shall be located in the municipal
building. The Mayor shall keep his or her offices open at all reasonable times
for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 4)
§ 33.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall have the power and duty to:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules and regulations for the
government of this Department;
   (B)   Prepare, in accordance with this subchapter, requests for
appropriations, estimates of cost and the forms and contents of the town budget
for submission to the Council;
   (C)   Administer the budget in accordance with this subchapter;
   (D)   Serve as staff agency to the Council in the consideration of requests
for appropriations and the preparation of the budget document;
   (E)   Make such investigations and submit such reports as the Council may
require;
   (F)   Make a continuous study of municipal expenditures and make such
recommendations to the Council for the more economical use of municipal funds
as he or she shall find practicable;
   (G)   Render assistance to spending officers with respect to the fiscal
affairs of spending units;
   (H)   Make an annual report to the Council with respect to the conduct of
the Department and the administration of the municipal finances; and
   (I)   Exercise such other powers as are vested in him or her by this
subchapter, or which may be appropriate to the discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 5)
§ 33.06 ASSISTANTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor shall be furnished with whatever assistance and employees that may
be necessary for the efficient operation of this office.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 6)
§ 33.07 DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties vested in the Mayor by this subchapter may be
delegated by him or her to his or her assistants and employees, but he or she
shall be responsible for all official acts.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 7)
§ 33.08 REQUESTS FOR APPROPRIATIONS.
   The head of each spending unit shall, on or before February 15 of each year,
submit to the Mayor a request for appropriations for the fiscal year next
ensuing.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 8)
§ 33.09 CONTENTS, FORM OF APPROPRIATION REQUEST.
   (A)   Contents. A request for appropriations for a spending unit shall
specify and itemize in writing form:
      (1)   A statement showing the amount and kinds of revenue and receipts
anticipated for the use of the town during the next preceding fiscal year;
      (2)   A statement, by purpose and objects, of the amount of
appropriations requested for the spending unit;
      (3)   A statement showing the actual expenditures of this spending unit
for the last preceding fiscal year and estimated expenditures for the next
fiscal year itemized by purpose and objects, including those from regular and
supplementary appropriations, federal aid, private contributions, transfers,
allotments from an emergency or contingent fund and any other expenditures made
by or for the spending unit;
      (4)   A statement showing the number, classification and compensation of
persons employed by the spending unit, distinguishing between regular, special
and casual employees during the last preceding fiscal year and during the next
fiscal year;
      (5)   A statement showing in detail the purposes for which increased
amounts of appropriations, if any, are requested, and giving a justification
statement for the expenditure of the increased amount. A construction or other
improvement request shall show in detail the kind and scope of construction or
improvement requested;
      (6)   A statement of money claims against the town arising out of the
activities of the spending unit; and
      (7)   Such other information as the Mayor may request.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 9)
   (B)   Form, appropriation request. The Mayor shall specify the form and the
detail of itemization of requests for appropriations and statements to be
submitted by a spending unit. He or she shall furnish blank forms for this
purpose.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 10)
§ 33.10 INFORMATION CONCERNING TOWN FINANCES.
   The Mayor shall, on or before May 15 of each year, ascertain for the last
preceding year and as estimated for the next fiscal year:
   (A)   The condition of each of the funds of the town;
   (B)   A statement of all revenue collections, both general and special; and
   (C)   Such other information relating to the finances of the town as Council
may request.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 11)
§ 33.11 EXAMINATION OF REQUESTS FOR APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Mayor shall examine the requests of a spending unit with respect to
requested appropriations, itemization, sufficiency of justification statements
and accuracy and completeness of all other information which the spending
officer is required to submit. If the Mayor finds a request, report or
statement of a spending unit inaccurate, incomplete or inadequate, he or she
shall consult with the spending officer of the unit and require the submission
of the requests in proper form and content. The Mayor shall assist spending
officers in the preparation of their requests.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 12)
§ 33.12 APPROPRIATIONS FOR OTHER THAN SPENDING UNITS.
   A person or organization, other than a spending officer, who desires to
request a general appropriation in the town budget, shall submit his or her
request to the Mayor on or before the May 15. The request shall be in the form
prescribed by the Mayor and shall be accompanied by a justification statement.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 13)
§ 33.13 TENTATIVE BUDGET; ITEMIZATION AND PREPARATION.
   (A)   (1)   The tentative budget submitted by the Mayor shall itemize
appropriations separately for the following defined items.
      BUILDINGS. Includes construction and alteration of structures and the
improvement of lands and shall include shelter, support, storage, protection or
the improvement of a natural condition.
      CURRENT EXPENSES. Operating costs, other than personal services, and
shall not include equipment, repairs and alterations, buildings or lands.
      EQUIPMENT. Equipment items which have an appreciable and calculable
period of usefulness in excess of one year.
      LANDS. The purchase of lands or interests in lands.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. Salaries, wages, fees and other compensation for skill,
work or employment.
      REPAIRS AND ALTERATION. Repairs to structures and improvements to
property which do not increase the capital asset.
      (2)   A spending unit or other person requesting an appropriation may
submit a different itemization with the prior approval of the Mayor if the
uniform itemization does not apply.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 14)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall prepare for the consideration of the Council a
tentative budget for each year. The budget shall state estimated amounts for
the next fiscal year with respect to:
         (a)   Appropriations requested by each spending unit and requested
appropriations;
         (b)   Amounts and purposes of appropriations requested other than for
spending units of the town;
         (c)   Revenue of each of the funds of the town; and
         (d)   A summary statement of requests and revenues showing the amount
of an anticipated surplus or deficit.
      (2)   (a)   The tentative budget shall be submitted to the Town Council
Finance Committee by May 15, or as soon thereafter as assessed valuations may
be available.
         (b)   The Mayor shall convey to the Council all explanatory and
justification statements of personnel requirements of spending units as
reported and filed in his or her office.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 15)
§ 33.14 POWERS OF MAYOR IN ADMINISTRATION OF EXPENDITURES.
   The Mayor shall supervise and control the expenditures of appropriations
made by the Council. The expenditure of an appropriation made by the Council
shall be conditioned upon compliance by the Department with the provisions of
this subchapter. An appropriation made by the Council shall be expended only in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 16)
§ 33.15 REPORTS ON REVENUE COLLECTIONS.
   The Mayor shall ascertain the collection of the revenue of the town and
shall determine, each quarter of the fiscal year, the proportion which the
amount actually collected bears to the collection estimated for that period.
The Mayor shall certify to the Council, as soon as possible after the close of
each quarter, and at such other times as the Council may request, the condition
of the municipal revenues and of the several funds of the town. For the purpose
of this section, the Mayor shall have the authority to require all necessary
estimates and reports from any spending unit of the town government.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 17)
§ 33.16 MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING.
   The Mayor shall formulate the requirements of a system of management
accounting for the planning, management and control of town expenditures. The
requirements shall include methods for recording the collection of all income,
amounts available for expenditure, obligation, encumbrances and disbursements
for each Department. The Mayor shall certify such requirements to the State Tax
Commissioner and obtain his or her approval before adoption thereof. The Mayor
and Town Superintendent shall incorporate the requirements into a system of
accounting for the town government. The system shall include the accounts to be
kept by the Mayor, Recorder and Town Superintendent. The Mayor shall require
its use by all spending units.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 18)
§ 33.17 EXPENDITURE SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the spending officer of a
spending unit shall submit to the Mayor a detailed expenditure schedule for the
ensuing fiscal year.
   (B)   The schedule shall be submitted in such form and at such time as the
Mayor may require.
   (C)   The schedule shall show:
      (1)   A proposed quarterly rate of expenditure for amounts appropriated
for personal services;
      (2)   A proposed quarterly rate of expenditure, for amounts appropriated
for current expenses and for equipment, repairs and alterations; and
      (3)   A proposed yearly plan of expenditure for amounts appropriated for
buildings and lands.
   (D)   The Mayor may accept a differently itemized expenditure schedule from
a spending unit to which the requirements of this section do not apply. The
Mayor shall consult with and assist spending officers in the preparation of
expenditures schedules.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 19)
§ 33.18 EXAMINATION AND APPROVAL OF SCHEDULES; EXPENDITURES TO ACCORD.
   The Mayor shall examine the expenditure schedule of each spending unit, and
if he or she finds that it conforms to the requirements of this subchapter, and
is in accordance with sound fiscal policy, he or she shall approve the
schedule.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 20)
§ 33.19 RESERVE FOR EMERGENCIES AS PART OF EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, may require that an expenditure
schedule provide for a reserve for emergencies out of the total amount
appropriated to the spending unit. The amount of the reserve shall be
determined by the Mayor in consultation with the spending officer.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 21)
§ 33.20 REQUESTS FOR QUARTERLY ALLOTMENTS.
   At least 30 days prior to the beginning of each quarter of the fiscal year,
each spending officer shall submit to the Mayor a request for an allotment of
public funds sufficient to operate the unit during the ensuing quarter in
accordance with the approved expenditure schedule. The Mayor shall examine the
requests and if he or she finds that the collection of revenue warrants the
expenditure of the amount requested in the allotment he or she shall approve
the allotment of funds for the ensuing quarter. If he or she finds that the
collection of revenue does not warrant the allotment of the requested amount,
he or she may reduce the amount of allotment pending the collection of
sufficient revenue.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 22)
§ 33.21 LIMITATION OF EXPENDITURES.
   The expenditures of a spending unit during a quarter of the fiscal year
shall not exceed the amount of the approved allotment, unless the Council, with
approval of the State Tax Commissioner, approves the expenditure of a larger
amount. Any amounts remaining unexpended at the close of the quarter shall be
available for reallocation and expenditures during any succeeding quarter of
the same fiscal year.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 23)
§ 33.22 TRANSFER BETWEEN ITEMS OF AN APPROPRIATIONS.
   Upon the written request of a spending officer, the Mayor may, with the
approval of the Council, transfer amounts between items of the total
appropriation for a spending unit in order to protect or increase the
efficiency of the services, but a transfer shall not increase the amount
appropriated for personal services.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 24)
§ 33.23 EXPENDITURE OF EXCESS IN COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   If the amount actually collected by the town exceeds the amount which
it is authorized to expend from collections, the excess in collections shall be
set aside in a special surplus fund. Expenditures from this fund shall be made
only in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   The spending officer shall submit to the Mayor:
         (a)   A plan of expenditure showing the purposes for which the surplus
is to be expended; and
         (b)   A justification statement showing the reasons why the
expenditure is necessary and desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall submit the request to the Council with his or her
recommendation.
   (B)   If the Council approves the plan of expenditure and justification
statement and is satisfied that the expenditure is required to defray the
additional cost of the service or activity of the spending unit, and that the
expenditure is in accordance with sound fiscal policy, and if it meets with the
approval of the State Tax Commissioner, it may authorize the use of the surplus
during the current fiscal year. An expenditure from a special surplus fund
without the authorization of the Council and approval of the State Tax
Commissioner, or other than in accordance with this section, shall be an
unlawful use of public funds.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.24 REPORTS OF SPENDING UNITS.
   A spending unit shall submit to the Mayor such reports and expenditures of
the unit as the Mayor may request for the purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 26)
§ 33.25 REDUCTION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Council may reduce appropriations according to any of the methods set
forth in §§
33.26 and
33.27.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 27)
§ 33.26 PRO RATA REDUCTIONS IN APPROPRIATIONS FROM GENERAL FUND.
   If the Council determines that the amounts, or parts thereof, appropriated
from the general revenue cannot be expended without creating an overdraft or a
deficit in the General Fund, it may instruct the Mayor to reduce equally and
pro rata all appropriations out of general revenue in such a degree as may be
necessary to prevent an overdraft or a deficit in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 28)
§ 33.27 PRO RATA REDUCTIONS IN APPROPRIATIONS FROM OTHER FUNDS.
   The Council, in the manner set forth in §
33.26, may reduce the amount to be expended from separated appropriations as it
may determine to be for the best interest of the town.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 29)
§ 33.28 EXPENDITURES PROCEDURE.
   No expenditures shall be made and no obligation shall be incurred on behalf
of the town until after it has been approved by the Mayor. Any expenditures
made and any obligation incurred by any official or employee of the town not in
accordance herewith shall be an unlawful act.
   (A)   The spending officer and the Town Superintendent shall prepare and
submit to the Mayor a requisition showing the amount, purpose and appropriation
from which the expenditure is requested.
   (B)   The Mayor shall examine the requisition and determine whether the
amount is within the quarterly allotment, is in accordance with the expenditure
schedule and otherwise conforms to the provisions of this subchapter and to
sound fiscal policy.
   (C)   If the Mayor approves the requisition, he or she shall encumber the
proper account in the amount of the requisition and shall transmit the
requisition to the Town Superintendent for purchase in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.29 REQUISITION FOR PURCHASES.
   If a requisition is a request for purchases, the Mayor, after encumbering
the proper account of the spending unit, shall transmit the requisition to the
Town Superintendent for purchases in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 31)
§ 33.30 ANNUAL INVENTORIES BY SPENDING UNITS.
   The spending officer of each spending unit shall, on or before March 15 of
each year, file with the Mayor an inventory of all real and personal property,
and of all equipment, supplies and commodities in its possession, as of the
close of the last fiscal year.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 32)
§ 33.31 CLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall prepare and recommend a personnel classification which
shall classify the offices and employments in the town government and its
agencies so as to reflect the differences in training, experience, ability and
responsibility required for different types or kinds of service or employment,
and shall recommend uniform salaries and wage scales within each class.
   (B)   The Mayor may, from time to time, recommend amendments and revisions
to the classification and compensation schedule. The Mayor shall submit the
plan to the Council and, if the Council approves the plan, the classification
of offices and employments and the uniform salary and wage scales shall control
the employment and compensation of all persons employed in the town government.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 33)
§ 33.32 CERTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL BY SPENDING OFFICER.
   The spending officer of each spending unit, within 30 days prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year, shall certify to the Mayor a schedule of persons
appointed to or employed by the spending unit and showing the personnel
classification and compensation approved for each person. Amounts appropriated
for personnel services shall be expended upon requisition only for the
appointees and employees included upon the personnel schedule as adopted in the
annual budget resolution and only in accordance with the rate of compensation
incorporated in the annual budget resolution.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 34)
§ 33.33 PERSONNEL, CLASSIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION SCHEDULES.
   The Mayor shall prepare schedules of the approved or certified personnel
showing the personnel employed in each spending unit of the town government and
the classification and compensation authorized to be paid for each person
employed. Such schedules shall be preserved as a public record and shall be
open to inspection by any person showing good cause.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 35)
§ 33.34 REQUISITION FOR PAYMENT OF PERSONNEL SERVICES.
   A requisition for the payment of personnel services shall, upon receipt by
the Mayor, be checked against the personnel schedule for the spending unit. The
Mayor shall approve a requisition for personal services only if the amounts
requested for expenditure are in accordance with the personnel schedule
incorporated in the budget resolution.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, § 36)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Contracts and Purchases
   
34.01   Advertisements for bids; letting of contracts
   
34.02   Contents of advertisements for bids
   
34.03   Submission of bids
   
34.04   Opening of bids
   
34.05   Rejection of bids
   
34.06   Awards of contracts
   
34.07   Purchase of supplies
   
34.08   Duties of Town Superintendent
   
34.09   Sureties on bonds
Town Funds
   
34.20   Deposit of moneys
   
34.21   Bonds of depositories
   
34.22   Special funds
   
34.23   Use of funds
   
34.24   Disbursement of General Fund; contracts in excess of estimated revenue
   
34.25   Supervision of finances
   
34.26   Custody of accounts and records
   
34.27   Vouchers
   
34.28   Orders on Recorder
   
34.29   Splitting order; sufficient funds in Treasury
   
34.30   Order register
   
34.31   Loss of order upon Recorder
Municipal Sales and Use Taxes
   
34.45   Findings
   
34.46   Definitions
   
34.47   Imposition of municipal sales and service tax
   
34.48   Imposition of municipal use tax
   
34.49   Calculation of tax on fractional parts of dollar
   
34.50   State and local tax bases
   
34.51   Exceptions
   
34.52   Credit against municipal use tax
   
34.53   Tax cumulative
   
34.54   Local rate and boundary database; changes
   
34.55   State level administration
   
34.56   Administrative procedures
   
34.57   Automatic updating
   
34.58   Deposit of taxes collected in General Revenue Fund
   
34.59   Issuance of revenue bonds
   
34.60   Notification of Tax Commissioner
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Operating contracts for municipal facilities, see W. Va. Code § 8-13-11A
   Public funds and securities, see W. Va. Code §§ 12-2 et seq.
**** CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES ****
§ 34.01 ADVERTISEMENTS FOR BIDS; LETTING OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Whenever any contract is to be let by the Council for any street
paving, curbing, laying of sidewalks necessary during any stated term, sewers,
macadamizing or otherwise improving any street, or for the construction or
erection of any bridge or public building or other work involving the
expenditure of more than $2,500, the Council shall publish an advertisement
calling for bids for this work (unless it be decided to do this work with the
town employees and hired hands).
   (B)   The time for opening such bids shall not be less than five days from
the time of the first insertion of the advertisement. The advertisement shall
be posted online, and in the newspaper when required, preceding the time of
opening the bids, and such publication shall be deemed reasonable and due
notice as provided for in the Town Charter.
   (C)   The Council shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids, but
the contract, if let, must be let to the lowest responsible bidder. The Council
shall take from the person to whom the work is let a written contract.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 1)
§ 34.02 CONTENTS OF ADVERTISEMENTS FOR BIDS.
   The notice to bidders shall state:
   (A)   The nature of the work;
   (B)   The place where the plans and specifications and forms of contract may
be seen;
   (C)   The time to which the bids shall be received and the hour and place of
opening the bids; and
   (D)   The right of the Council to reject any and all bids.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 2)
§ 34.03 SUBMISSION OF BIDS.
   (A)   Bids should be on company letterhead.
   (B)   Each bid shall be signed by the bidder, or by an authorized officer or
agent where the bid is by firm or corporation.
   (C)   The bid shall not be opened before the time and hour fixed in the
notice.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 3)
§ 34.04 OPENING OF BIDS.
   No bids shall be opened and read by the Town Superintendent before the time
indicated in the advertisement if sealed bids are requested.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 7)
§ 34.05 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   If in any bid, blanks are not properly filled up so as to make the bid
complete and without an ambiguity as to its intent and meaning, or if a bid has
any alteration or erasure upon it, or if it be not properly signed, or if the
certificate of deposit has not been enclosed with the bid as hereinbefore
provided, then the bid shall be rejected.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 8)
§ 34.06 AWARDS OF CONTRACTS.
   As soon as the announcement of the several bids shall have been completed
and the necessary calculations made, the contract shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder; provided, that the Council or Town Superintendent
shall have the power to reject all bids.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 9)
§ 34.07 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.
   All supplies and materials for the various departments of the town
government not exceeding at any one time the sum of $2,500 shall be purchased
by the Town Superintendent, and every reasonable precaution shall be taken to
secure the supplies and materials at the very lowest price possible consistent
with good service and quality. All such purchases shall be made upon
requisition signed by the officer in charge of the department for which the
supplies are needed, and filed with the Town Superintendent, who shall
thereupon direct his or her order to the person from whom it is proposed to
purchase the supplies or materials, requiring such person to deliver the
supplies to the person in charge of the department for which ordered, and the
person supplying same shall make out his or her bill at the contract price on a
blank form attached to the order and furnished with the order by the Town
Superintendent, and shall send the bill with the goods to the officer in charge
of the department for which they were ordered, It shall be the duty of the
officer to examine the goods delivered and the quantity thereof, and if he or
she finds the quality as stated in the order and bulk and the quality first
class or of the grade ordered, he or she shall endorse the bill with a
statement that the goods have been received and the quantity and quality found
to be correct and shall return the bill and the order upon which it was
furnished to the merchant or person making the same, who shall file same with
the Recorder for approval and payment. If found incorrect, or if the quality be
found below the standard and grade ordered, the officer in charge shall notify
the Town Superintendent to that effect, and the person furnishing the goods
shall be notified by the officer in charge of the department that the goods can
only remain where delivered at the risk of the person delivering.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 10)
§ 34.08 DUTIES OF TOWN SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Superintendent to purchase all tools,
implements, feed and other supplies and materials necessary for the use of the
town or for any and all departments of the town government, and to pay the
accounts for the same. It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the
town to purchase any supplies for the town except upon a written order from the
Town Superintendent.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 11) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.09 SURETIES ON BONDS.
   All bonds given in security for work done upon any contract with the town
involving an expenditure of $2,500 or more and all bonds given for the faithful
performance of the terms of any franchise granted by the town, shall be
executed by some surety company duly authorized to do business as such in the
state and subject to the approval of the Town Superintendent.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, § 13)
**** TOWN FUNDS ****
§ 34.20 DEPOSIT OF MONEYS.
   All town money or money due the town from any source whatever shall be
deposited as required, in the bank or banks designated by the Council as town
depositories, to the credit of “The Town of Ansted               Fund,”
designating the fund to which the money should properly go. The Recorder shall,
either in person or through some official of the bank, issue a receipt for all
such deposits showing the date of the deposit, the amount deposited, by whom
deposited and the fund to which it was credited. The Recorder shall keep the
moneys of the town in account; and the General Fund. All moneys received into
the Treasury, unless for some specific purpose for which some special or
temporary fund has been established by the Council shall be credited as
follows.
   (A)   All moneys arising from any special levy for interest and sinking
fund, on bonds of the town outstanding (except for interest on special paving
and sewer bonds issued under the provisions of Chapter 8 of the Acts of West
Virginia, 1908), and such sums as may be set aside by the Council to make up
any deficit in said funds, shall be credited to the sinking fund, in the same
proportion as fixed in the published estimates made by the Council and upon
which said levy was laid, or in the proportion set out by the Council in any
order directing a deposit to be made to the credit or either of said funds to
meet any deficit therein.
   (B)   All moneys collected on account of interest and sinking fund from
assessments against property owners for sewering and paving improvements made
under the provisions of Chapter 8 of the Acts of West Virginia, 1908, shall be
deposited to the Paving and Sewer Fund.
   (C)   Contributions to the improvement of the cemetery, funds raised for the
improvement of any road or walk in the cemetery shall be deposited to the
General Fund, for the use of the cemetery.
   (D)   All deposits which have heretofore been legally diverted by ordinance
of the town towards the establishment of special funds for specific purposes
shall be deposited to the credit of the special funds to which, under such
ordinance, they properly belong.
   (E)   All the moneys received into the Treasury from all other sources
whatever shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 1)
§ 34.21 BONDS OF DEPOSITORIES.
   All depositories of the town funds shall give bond as required by the Town
Charter.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 2)
§ 34.22 SPECIAL FUNDS.
   In addition to the funds herein provided, the Council shall have power to
establish special funds for any specific purpose, such as the building of a
certain sewer, or paving of certain portions of a street, the funds to be
raised by the parties interested in the improvements and deposited to the
credit of such special fund and to be expended only for the purpose of the
fund. The Town Recorder shall also be authorized to accept any money in escrow
under any legal contract made by the Council or Mayor and hold and dispose of
the same according to the terms of the escrow agreement or contract.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 3)
§ 34.23 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The sinking fund shall not be used for any purpose except the payment
of interest and the payment of the outstanding bonds of the town when due, but
the Recorder, under direction of the Council, shall transfer such fund to the
State Sinking Fund Commission as provided by law.
   (B)   The Paving and Sewer Fund shall not be used for any purpose whatever
except the payment of the interest and sinking fund.
   (C)   All moneys deposited to the credit of the cemetery in the General Fund
shall be used only for the purpose of the improvement of the roads and walks in
the cemetery, improving, fencing and beautifying the grounds, improving the
roads leading to the cemetery other than those which have been ordered improved
by assessment on the property owners, and for the payment of the salary of the
sexton and his or her assistants and labor in the cemetery, and other costs and
incidental expenses connected solely with the improvement and management of the
cemetery owned by the town.
   (D)   All other moneys coming into the Treasury of the town from any sources
whatever (except from special funds hereafter created) and deposited to the
credit of the General Fund, may be used by the town in paying the expenses of
the town government and for such improvements of town property, streets,
sewers, parks and public buildings and places as may be justified by the
condition of the town’s finances and the laws and ordinances governing the
levying, collection and expenditure of the town funds.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 4)
§ 34.24 DISBURSEMENT OF GENERAL FUND; CONTRACTS IN EXCESS OF ESTIMATED REVENUE.
   The General Fund at the time of laying the levy shall be apportioned by the
Council for the several purposes for which it was levied or collected, and for
the general needs of the town government, including any deficit in the special
tax levied for the sinking fund, but not including special funds, and the
Council shall, as near as possible, keep the expense of each department or
branch of the town service within the limits of such apportionment, but in the
event that a saving can be made in the expenses of any one department, such
saving may be applied to any deficit which may arise in the apportionment for
any other department, and any excess of revenue over and above the estimated
collections from any given source during the fiscal year likewise be applied to
any such deficit but under no circumstances shall the town expend or contract
for the expenditure of more money than the amount estimated each year in the
annual estimate published in March of each year, as the probable receipts for
the fiscal year, plus any moneys received into the Treasury by reason of
collections for said fiscal year to the credit of the General Fund, in excess
of the amount estimated to be received from any such known source of revenue.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 5)
§ 34.25 SUPERVISION OF FINANCES.
   The Mayor shall have the supervision of the keeping of all books of account,
all paving and sewer assessment books, the custody of all contracts, insurance
policies and other papers of importance pertaining to the funds and finances of
the town and shall direct the Recorder in the proper keeping of all accounts
and issuing of warrants, and shall see that the books of the town are properly
kept, and it shall be his or her duty, whenever required so to do, to furnish
the Council any statement of the financial condition of the town or of any
particular fund or the fund apportioned to any particular purpose at any time.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 7)
§ 34.26 CUSTODY OF ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS.
   All books of account, and all contracts, insurance policies and other papers
of importance, shall be kept on file in fireproof safes in the Town Hall, and
no such book or papers shall be taken from the office where filed except upon
the order of the Council or Mayor.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 8)
§ 34.27 VOUCHERS/PURCHASE ORDERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Recorder to take a voucher from every
person to whom a town warrant is issued, except for warrants issued to officers
and employees of the town working on fixed salaries or per diem, and except
warrants issued on payrolls of departments, and to file the voucher in a jacket
in his or her office, and the jacket shall show the name of the party to whom
the warrant was drawn, the number of the warrant, the amount and date thereof
and the fund to which it should be charged.
   (B)   No person shall remove any of the vouchers from the office of the
Recorder for any purpose, but all books and vouchers may be inspected there at
any reasonable time by any committee from Council, by any member of the Council
or by any responsible citizen upon request made by him or her to the Council
and under the personal supervision of the Recorder.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 9)
§ 34.28 ORDERS ON RECORDER.
   No moneys, except such as may be paid on town bonds and coupons, shall be
paid by the town except upon an order upon the Recorder, drawn by the Recorder
or acting Recorder and countersigned by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 10)
§ 34.29 SPLITTING ORDER; SUFFICIENT FUNDS IN TREASURY.
   The Recorder is forbidden to divide or split any order allowed, except by
special direction of the Council, and no order shall be drawn upon the Town
Treasury unless there is sufficient funds in the Treasury to say the same.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 11)
§ 34.30 ORDER REGISTER.
   (A)   The Recorder shall keep in an order register the date, number and
amount of all town orders issued, with columns showing the funds on which drawn
and the purpose for which drawn.
   (B)   Upon every settlement made with the Recorder, the cancelled orders
surrendered by him or her shall be compared with said register, and all orders
thus found to be paid shall be checked off with red ink, in order to show the
amount of outstanding orders.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 12)
§ 34.31 LOSS OF ORDER UPON RECORDER.
   In cases where a town order, drawn upon the Recorder, has been lost by or
stolen from the holder, the party suffering such a loss may have issued to him
or her by the Mayor, a duplicate of the order on the following conditions, to-
wit: Said party must file with the Recorder an affidavit, setting forth the
fact and circumstances of the loss, and specifically describing the order, and
he or she must, moreover, execute to the town a bond with security to be
approved by the Mayor in a penalty of twice the amount of the order to
indemnify the town in the event of the payment of the order by the Recorder, or
loss by the town in any manner through the issuance of such duplicate order. As
soon as the affidavit aforesaid is filed with the Recorder, it shall be the
duty of that office to furnish to the Mayor a memorandum of the loss or theft
of the order, stating the date, number, payee and amount of the order, and the
fund upon which it is drawn, and the Recorder is not to receive or pay said
order.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, § 13)
**** MUNICIPAL SALES AND USE TAXES ****
§ 34.45 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Municipal Home Rule Board, on October 13, 2021, approved the home
rule plan submitted by the Town of Ansted, West Virginia, thereby allowing the
town to adopt a municipal sales and service tax and a municipal use tax
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8-1-5A without the limiting restrictions in W. Va.
Code §§ 8-13C-1 et seq. In accordance with its home rule plan, the Town Council
hereby finds and declares that the adoption by this town for its municipal
sales and service tax and its municipal use tax provisions of state law
relating to imposition, administration, collection and enforcement of the state
consumers sales and service tax codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15-1 et seq.; the
State Use Tax Law codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15A-1 et seq.; and the
Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Act codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15B-1 et seq.
will:
      (1)   Simplify collection of the town’ s sales and use taxes;
      (2)   Simplify preparation of municipal sales and use tax returns by
taxpayers; and
      (3)   Improve enforcement of the town’s sales and use taxes.
   (B)   The Town Council does, therefore, declare that this subchapter be
construed so as to accomplish the foregoing purposes.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms
used in this subchapter or in the administration, collection and enforcement of
the taxes imposed by this subchapter and not otherwise defined in this
subchapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in W. Va. Code Articles 11-
9, 11-10, 11-15, 11-15A and 11-15B, as amended.
   BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in by
any person with the object of gain or economic benefit, direct or indirect, and
all activities of the state and its political subdivisions, which involve sales
of tangible personal property or the rendering of services when those service
activities compete with or may compete with the activities of other persons.
   CODE OF WEST VIRGINIA, STATE CODE or W. Va. CODE. The Code of West Virginia,
as amended from time to time by the West Virginia Legislature.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership or any other legal entity,
including this state or its political subdivisions or an agency of either, or
the guardian, trustee, committee, executor or administrator of any person.
   PURCHASE. Any transfer, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any
manner or by any means whatsoever, for a consideration.
   PURCHASE PRICE. The measure subject to the taxes imposed by this subchapter
and has the same meaning as sales price.
   PURCHASER. A person who purchases tangible personal property, custom
software or a service taxed by this subchapter.
   SALE, SALES or SELLING. As defined in West Virginia Code, as amended.
   SALES AND USE TAXES. The taxes imposed by §§
34.47  and
34.48.
   SALES PRICE. As defined in W. Va. Code Article 11-15B, as amended.
   SALES TAX. The tax levied by §
34.47.
   SERVICE or SELECTED SERVICE. As defined in W. Va. Code Article 11-15B, as
amended.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia.
   STATE SALES TAX. The tax levied by W. Va. Code Article 11-15B, as amended.
   STATE USE TAX. The tax levied by W. Va. Code Article 11-15B, as amended.
   TAX. The taxes imposed by this subchapter and includes additions to tax,
interest and penalties levied under W. Va. Code Article 11-10, as amended.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The Chief Executive Office of the Tax Division of the
State Department of Revenue, as provided in W. Va. Code § 11-1-1.
   TOWN or THIS TOWN. The Town of Ansted, West Virginia.
   ULTIMATE CONSUMER or CONSUMER. A person who uses or consumes services,
tangible personal property or custom software.
   USE.
      (1)   For the purpose of the tax imposed by §
34.48, includes:
         (a)   The exercise by any person of any right or power over tangible
personal property or custom software incident to the ownership, possession or
enjoyment of the property, or by any transaction in which possession of or the
exercise of any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software
or the result of a taxable service is acquired for a consideration, including
any lease, rental or conditional sale of tangible personal property or custom
software; or
         (b)   The use or enjoyment in this state of the result of a taxable
service.
      (2)   As used in this definition, ENJOYMENT includes a purchaser’s right
to direct the disposition of the property or the use of the taxable service,
whether or not the purchaser has possession of the property.
      (3)   The term USE does not include the keeping, retaining or exercising
any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software or the
result of a taxable service for the purpose of subsequently transporting it
outside the town for use thereafter solely outside this town.
   USE TAX. The tax imposed by §
34.48.
   VENDOR. Any person engaged in this town in furnishing services taxed by this
subchapter or making sales of tangible personal property or custom software.
VENDOR and SELLER are used interchangeably in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.47 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property or customer software
and for the privilege of furnishing certain selected service, a vendor doing
business in this town shall collect from the purchaser the taxes imposed by
this section and pay the amount of taxes collected to the Tax Commissioner at
the same time and in the same manner as the consumers sales and service tax
imposed by W. Va. Code § 11-15, as amended, are paid to the Tax Commissioner.
The rate of tax shall be 1% of the sales price, as defined in §
34.46, of the tangible personal property, custom software or taxable service
purchased or leased.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.48 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   An excise tax is hereby levied and imposed on the use in this town of
tangible personal property, custom software and the results of taxable
services, to be collected and paid to the Tax Commissioner as agent for the
town in the same manner that state use tax is collected under W. Va. Code §§
11-15A and 11-15B, as amended, and remitted to the Tax Commissioner. The rate
of tax shall be 1% of the purchase price, as defined in §
34.46, of the tangible personal property, custom software or taxable service
used within the town.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.49 CALCULATION OF TAX ON FRACTIONAL PARTS OF DOLLAR.
   (A)   The tax computation under §§
34.47 and
34.48 shall be carried to the third decimal place and the tax rounded up to the
next whole cent whenever the third decimal place is greater than four and
rounded down to the lower whole cent whenever the third decimal place is four
or less.
   (B)   The vendor may elect to compute the tax due on a transaction on a per
item basis or on an invoice basis provided the method used is consistently used
during the reporting period, but the method used shall be the same as that used
for purposes of computing the state sales or use tax.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.50 STATE AND LOCAL TAX BASES.
   The taxable base of the taxes imposed by §§
34.47 and
34.48 shall be identical to the sales and use tax base of this state except as
provided in §
34.51, unless otherwise prohibited by federal law, as required by W. Va. Code §
11-15B-34.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.51 EXCEPTIONS.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter do not apply to:
   (A)   The sale or use of motor fuel, as defined in W. Va. Code § 11-14C-2,
as amended;
   (B)   The sale or use of motor vehicles upon which the tax imposed by W. Va.
Code § 11-15-3c, as amended, is paid;
   (C)   The purchase or use of any tangible personal property, custom software
or service that the town is prohibited from taxing under the laws of this state
or of the United States;
   (D)   The sales tax imposed by §
34.47 does not apply to any transaction that is exempt from the tax imposed by
W. Va. Code § 11-15; and
   (E)   The use tax imposed by §
34.48 does not apply to any purchase upon which the sales tax imposed by §
34.47 has been paid.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.52 CREDIT AGAINST MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A person is entitled to a credit against the use tax imposed by §
34.48 on the use of a particular item of tangible personal property, custom
software or results of a taxable service equal to the amount, if any, of sales
tax lawfully paid to another municipality for the acquisition of that property,
custom software or service; provided, that the amount of credit allowed may not
exceed the amount of use tax imposed by §
34.48 on the use of the tangible personal property, custom software or results
of the taxable service in this town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MUNICIPALITY. Includes municipalities of this state or of any other state
of the United States.
      SALES TAX. Includes a sales tax or compensating use tax imposed on the
sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or the results of a
taxable service by the municipality in which the sale occurred.
   (C)   No credit is allowed under this section for payment of any sales or
use taxes imposed by this state or any other state. For the purpose of this
division (C), STATE includes the 50 states of the United States and the
District of Columbia but does not include any of the several territories
organized by Congress.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.53 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter are in addition to other taxes imposed
on the sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or taxable
services, including, but not limited to, the state consumers sales and service
tax imposed by W. Va. Code § 11-15; the state use tax imposed by W. Va. Code §
11-15A; the public utility tax imposed by this town pursuant to W. Va. Code §
8-13-5A; the amusement tax imposed by this town pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8-13-
6; the tax on sales of alcoholic liquors and wine imposed by this town pursuant
to W. Va. Code § 8-13-7; the hotel occupancy tax imposed by this town pursuant
to W. Va. Code § 7-18; and the special district excise taxes imposed by a
county pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 7-22-1 et seq. or a municipality pursuant to
W. Va. Code §§ 8-38-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.54 LOCAL RATE AND BOUNDARY DATABASE; CHANGES.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Commissioner is required by W. Va. Code § 11-15B-35 to
maintain a database for all jurisdictions levying a sales or use tax in this
state. The Recorder shall furnish the Tax Commissioner with information the Tax
Commissioner requires for that database that will allow the Tax Commissioner to
maintain a database that assigns each five-digit and nine-digit zip code within
the town to the proper rate of tax.
      (2)   If any nine-digit zip code area includes area outside this town,
the single state and local rate assigned to that area in the Tax Commissioner’s
database will be the lowest rate applicable to that area; provided, that, when
sales occur at and are sourced to a physical location of the seller located in
the town in that nine-digit zip code area, the seller shall collect the tax
imposed by §
34.47.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever boundaries of the town change, whether by annexation or
de-annexation, the Recorder shall promptly notify the Tax Commissioner in
writing of the change in boundaries; provide the Tax Commissioner with the
nine-digit zip code or codes for the area annexed or de-annexed; and any other
information the Tax Commissioner may require to maintain the database.
      (2)   An ordinance annexing property into the town, or an ordinance
removing property from the corporate limits of the town may not take effect any
sooner than the first day of a calendar quarter that begins 60 days after the
town provides written notice to the Tax Commission of a change in the municipal
boundaries.
   (C)   The nine-digit database shall be maintained by the town until such
time as the Tax Commissioner allows use of a different system to determine
whether a location is within or outside the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.55 STATE LEVEL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner is responsible for administering, collecting and
enforcing the taxes imposed by this subchapter as provided in W. Va. Code §§ 8-
13C-6 and 11-15B-33. The town may enter into a written agreement with the Tax
Commissioner that will allow employees of the town auditing a vendor whose
primary business location is in the town for compliance with the town’s
business and occupation tax to also audit that business location for compliance
with the sales and use tax laws of this state and this town and obligate the
town to share that information with the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner may retain from collections of the taxes imposed
by this subchapter the fee allowed by W. Va. Code § 11-10-11c or by any other
state law or legislative rule.
   (C)   (1)   The Tax Commissioner shall deposit all the proceeds from
collection of the taxes imposed by this subchapter, minus any fee for
collecting, enforcing and administering taxes retained under this section, in
the sub-account for this town established in Municipal Sales and Services Tax
and Use Tax Fund, an interest bearing account created in the State Treasury
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8-13C-7.
      (2)   All moneys collected and deposited in the sub-account for the town
shall be remitted at least quarterly by the State Treasurer to the Town
Treasurer, as provided W. Va. Code § 8-13C-7.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.56 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Each and every provision of the State Tax Procedure and Administration Act
set forth in W. Va. Code § 11-10 applies to the administration, collection and
enforcement of the sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter,
except as otherwise expressly provided in W. Va. Code § 8-13C, with like effect
as if that act were applicable only to the taxes imposed by this subchapter and
were set forth in extenso in this subchapter, as provided in W. Va. Code § 8-
13C-6.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.57 AUTOMATIC UPDATING.
   Any amendments to W. Va. Code § 11-9, 11-10, 11-15, 11-15A and 11-15B shall
automatically apply to the municipal sales and use tax imposed pursuant to this
subchapter, to the extent they are applicable to the taxes imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.58 DEPOSIT OF TAXES COLLECTED IN GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   When the town receives periodic distributions of municipal sales and use
taxes from the State Treasurer, the town shall promptly deposit the amount
received in the General Revenue Fund or account of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.59 ISSUANCE OF REVENUE BONDS.
   The town shall have the power and authority to issue its revenue bonds or
other obligations or refunding revenue bonds or other obligations, as
appropriate, under and pursuant to W. Va. Code Article 8-16, or other
appropriate provisions of the state code, as may be applicable from time to
time (the Bond Act) for the purposes of financing or refinancing costs of
infrastructure improvements or economic development activities and projects
within the town. The town may pledge or otherwise utilize the collections of
the municipal sales and use taxes imposed by this subchapter and the funds on
deposit from time to time in the town’s Sales and Use Tax Fund to satisfy the
debt service requirements and any prior debt service requirements deficit each
fiscal year on, and to fund or replenish any required reserves in accordance
with the bond documents for, any bonds or other obligations issued by the town
from time to time, including any refunding bonds, to finance or refinance
infrastructure improvements or economic development activities and projects
within the town, including the funding or replenishing of any reserve funds
relating to any such bonds or other obligations, and/or to make lease payments
which repay the debt service or otherwise secure bonds or other obligations
issued to finance or refinance infrastructure improvements or economic
development activities and projects within the town. The town may utilize the
procedures established pursuant to the Bond Act in connection with the issuance
of such bonds or other obligations and in connection therewith it is hereby
clarified and directed that the municipal sales and use taxes imposed by this
subchapter shall not be considered to be taxation solely for the purposes of
and as contemplated by W. Va. Code § 8-16.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.60 NOTIFICATION OF TAX COMMISSIONER.
   Upon adoption of this subchapter by Town Council, the Town Clerk shall
forthwith send to the Tax Commissioner a certified copy of this subchapter, the
rate and the boundary database required by §
34.54, along with a description of the boundaries of the town, and such other
information as the Tax Commissioner may need to administer, collect and enforce
the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each and every provision of the State Tax Crimes and Penalties Act set
forth in W. Va. Code § 11-9 applies to the administration, collection and
enforcement of the municipal sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to §§
34.45 through
34.60 with like effect as if that act were applicable only to the taxes imposed
pursuant to §§
34.45 through
34.60 and were set forth in extenso in §§
34.45 through
34.60, as provided in W. Va. Code § 8-13C-6; provided, that the criminal
penalties imposed upon conviction for a criminal violation of §§
34.45 through
34.60 may not exceed the maximum penalties allowed by law for a similar
violation of the ordinances of this town.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 35: JUDICIAL SYSTEM
Section
Municipal Court
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Session
   
35.03   Duties of Clerk
   
35.04   Style of prosecutions; arrest of offenders; summoning witnesses
   
35.05   Issuance and service of criminal process
   
35.06   Default judgments
   
35.07   Separation of witnesses; exclusion of minors from court room
   
35.08   Procedure; new trials
   
35.09   Punishment for contempt
   
35.10   Prosecution for contempt
   
35.11   Judgment and commitment for contempt
Teen Court
   
35.25   Town support with fines
 
   
35.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Prisoners working on streets, see W. Va. Code § 62-4-16
**** MUNICIPAL COURT ****
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be in the town a court, which shall be called the Municipal
Court, to be held by the Mayor or someone appointed by the Mayor whose title
shall be the Municipal Judge.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 1)
§ 35.02 SESSION.
   Sessions of the Municipal Court shall be held on the third Tuesday of each
month at 5:00 p.m.
§ 35.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   For following are the duties and requirements of the Recorder, or someone
appointed by the Mayor, whose title shall be the Municipal Clerk.
   (A)   Trial docket. He or she shall produce monthly at the opening of the
court a docket in which shall be entered all cases set for trial on that month.
The cases shall be numbered progressively on the docket, and the papers in each
case numbered to correspond. The title of every case entertained by the Mayor
or Municipal Judge shall be entered upon the docket, setting forth the name of
the defendant, the charge against him or her, the name of the officer arresting
him or her and the disposition made by the Mayor or Municipal Judge of the
case, and the disposition made by him or her of the defendant, whether
discharged or imprisoned, and if the latter, the term of imprisonment, and
whether admitted to bail or committed to answer indictment. In each case
continuances, if any may be granted, shall be noted; also the amount of all
fines imposed, all costs thereto attached, and to whom payable. The docket
shall be indexed in the names of the defendants.
   (B)   Fines, costs, process and oaths. He or she shall tax all costs in the
Municipal Court and make out all executions for fines, penalties and costs
imposed by the Mayor or Municipal Judge, make out and issue all processes of
the court and sign the same as Clerk, and administer oaths.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 3)
§ 35.04 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS; ARREST OF OFFENDERS; SUMMONING WITNESSES.
   (A)   All prosecutions, actions and proceedings for the violations of the
ordinances of the town or any of them, or any section or part thereof, shall be
entitled “The Town of Ansted against                 , (the person violating
the same).”
   (B)   In all prosecutions, in cases of arrest upon view of any person in the
act of committing an offense, after the offender shall have been brought before
the Mayor or Municipal Judge the officer making the arrest shall reduce or have
reduced to writing the charge alleged against such person and also state that
such arrest was made upon view, which writing shall be subscribed and sworn to
by such officer, and which may be in ordinary and concise language, and it
shall not be deemed defective for want of form if it shows substantially an
offense against the laws of the town.
   (C)   In all prosecutions, in cases in which a person charged with a breach
of any of the ordinances of the town has not been arrested in the act of
committing the offense, andauthorizes it, the first writ may be a warrant for
the arrest of the person charged, but it shall not issue except upon probable
cause, not until complaint in writing, supported by affidavit describing
particularly the person to be arrested, shall have been duly made; and in the
same warrant the Mayor or Municipal Judge may require the officer to whom it is
directed to summon such witnesses as are therein named to appear and give
evidence on the examination of such party.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 4)
§ 35.05 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF CRIMINAL PROCESS.
   All warrants, subpoenas, executions or other processes issued by the Mayor
or Municipal Judge shall run in the name of the state and shall be directed to
any police officer of the town whose duty it shall be to execute the same,
either by reading it to the person named therein, or by delivering him or her a
copy thereof, or by leaving a copy of it at his or her usual place of abode, or
in any other manner provided by law. The officer shall make proper return on
the same.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 5)
§ 35.06 DEFAULT JUDGMENTS.
   When a defendant, duly summoned, fails to appear at the time the suit is set
for trial, the Mayor or Municipal Judge shall proceed to hear and examine the
testimony offered on the part of the town, and shall render judgment by default
against the defendant for such amount under the ordinance as he or she may deem
justice requires.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 6)
§ 35.07 SEPARATION OF WITNESSES; EXCLUSION OF MINORS FROM COURT ROOM.
   The Mayor or Municipal Judge is authorized to examine witnesses separate and
apart from each other. He or she may also exclude all minors from the courtroom
who may be present as mere spectators.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 12)
§ 35.08 PROCEDURE; NEW TRIALS.
   Trials may be conducted agreeably to law and established usage. New trials
may be granted.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 13)
§ 35.09 PUNISHMENT FOR CONTEMPT.
   The Mayor or Municipal Judge may issue attachments for contempt and publish
summarily, only in the following cases:
   (A)   Misbehavior in the presence of his or her court, or so near thereto as
to obstruct the administration of justice;
   (B)   Violence or threats of violence to the Mayor or Municipal Judge or any
officer, witness or party going thereto, attending or returning from said
court, for or in respect of any act or proceeding had or to be had in such
court;
   (C)   Misbehavior of any officer in his or her official capacity, in respect
to any act or judicial proceeding had or pending before the Mayor or Municipal
Judge, or any process, order or notice therein; and
   (D)   Disobedience or resistance of any officer, witness, party or other
person to any lawful process, judgment, order or notice of the Mayor or
Municipal Judge.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 14)
§ 35.10 PROSECUTION FOR CONTEMPT.
   An order to arrest may be issued by the Mayor or Municipal Judge on which
the person charged with the contempt may be taken and brought before him or
her, or such person may be taken in custody by any officer or any person upon
the oral order of the Mayor or Municipal Judge and held to answer for the
contempt. An opportunity must be given him or her to be heard in defense or
explanation of his or her conduct, and the Mayor or Municipal Judge may
thereupon discharge him or her, or adjudge him or her guilty of the contempt
and punish him or her therefor, by fine or imprisonment or both. The fine shall
not exceed $50, nor the imprisonment five days. The Mayor or Municipal Judge
shall not impose a fine for contempt unless the defendant is present in court,
or shall have been served with a rule of the court to show cause on some
certain day, and shall have failed to appear and show cause.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 15)
§ 35.11 JUDGMENT AND COMMITMENT FOR CONTEMPT.
   The conviction for contempt, specifying the particular circumstances of the
offense and judgment thereon, must be entered by the Mayor or Municipal Judge
in his or her docket. A warrant of commitment for the term of imprisonment
adjudged may be issued by the Mayor or Municipal Judge commanding an officer to
take the offender to the town prison, and the keeper thereof to imprison him or
her therein for said term. The judgment may include, in addition to fines, all
costs in the case, including costs of arresting and keeping in prison the
offender.
(Prior Code, Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, § 16)
**** TEEN COURT ****
§ 35.25 TOWN SUPPORT WITH FINES.
   The town will support Teen Court by assessing a fine in the amount of $5 for
all fines assessed in the Municipal Court, consistent with state law.
(Res. passed 6-2-2022)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The fine for contempt shall not exceed $50.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   REFUSE DISPOSAL
      
52.   WATER; COMMERCIAL WELLS
      
53.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Control by the Utilities Superintendent
   
50.03   Required use of public sewers where available
   
50.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.05   Building sewers and connections
   
50.06   Use of public services
   
50.07   Tampering and the like prohibited
   
50.08   User rate schedule for charges
   
50.09   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.10   State sewerage utilities rules and regulations adopted
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal waterworks, see W. Va. Code Chapter 8, Article 19
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The Town of Ansted, or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the town.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a COMPATIBLE
POLLUTANT, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the “Standard Industrial Classification
Manual,” latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the town’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit. The term includes use
or disposal of sewage sludge by the town in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1345, or any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more
stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use employed
by the town.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the WVDEP, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345, respectively.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration or during which the only pollutant added
is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD concentration not greater than 200 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 250 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and
surface waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow: in excess of 25,000 gallons per average
work day; or has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility; or whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or whose discharge has a
significant effect, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater disposal system, the quality of sludge, the
system’s effluent quality or emissions generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry stormwater,
surface runoff, groundwater, sub-surface water, street wash water, drainage and
unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. Refers to the Utilities Superintendent or a deputy, general
manager, agent or representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,”
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TAP FEE. The fee, if any, paid by prospective customers of the system in
order to connect thereto.
   TOWN. The area within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Ansted, West
Virginia as presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal
actions at a future time. The term TOWN, when used herein, may also be used to
refer to the Town Council and its authorized representative.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will
cause adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of
the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. (See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER.)
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the town’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
town for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water, including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clearwell facilities; and any works, including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
   WVDEP. The West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021)
§ 50.02 CONTROL BY THE UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Chief Plant Manager/Operator shall have control and general supervision
of all public sewers and service connections in the town, and shall be
responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a
proper and efficient public sewer system is maintained.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021)
§ 50.03 REQUIRED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS WHERE AVAILABLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with in the
town, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the town’s NPDES
permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the town and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the town, shall be required at the owner(s)
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this code, within 90 days of the date said public
sewer is operational, provided said public sewer is within 200 feet of the
structure generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on
property adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect
to the public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this
section, an official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the affected
property owner to make said connection.
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (D) above, the town must
undertake to have said connection made and shall assess the cost thereof
against the benefited property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear
interest at the rate determined by the Town Council and shall be certified to
the County Auditor and shall be collected and remitted to the town in the same
manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the town shall be
in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.03(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the town.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary to the town.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the town
or its authorized representative. The town or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the town when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within eight hours of the receipt of notice.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of a document entitled
“Individual Sewage Treatment System Standards.” No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within 90 days in compliance with this chapter, and
within 30 days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to perm
it drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the WVDEP or the State
Department of Health and Human Resources.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as
determined by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made on forms prescribed by the town
and shall constitute an agreement by the applicant with the town to abide by
all provisions of this chapter and such applicable rules and regulations of the
town in regard to use of the sewer system.
   (D)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the town. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
occasioned by the installation building of the sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The town does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in the amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF “Manual of Practice No. 9.”
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by
proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the town prior
to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the town when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter to perform such work, and no permit shall
be granted to any person except such regularly licensed person.
   (O)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the Town Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the
Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If approved by the Council,
such license shall be issued by the Town Clerk upon the filing of a bond as
hereinafter provided.
   (P)   No license shall be issued to any person until a $300 bond to the
town, approved by the Council, is filed with the Town Clerk, conditioned that
the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the town from all suits,
accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any street,
alley or public ground made by the licensee, or by those in the licensee’s
employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will replace and
restore the street and alley over such opening to the condition existing prior
to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights and will keep and
maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, and shall conform
in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council relative thereto,
and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (Q)   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
section for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee; and
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this section or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
   (R)   Any time homeowner opens a line, a clean out needs installed, unless
one already exists.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-
contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the town and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the town and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the WVDEP.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfide;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities, such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   (D)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream and/or soil, vegetation and groundwater, or will not otherwise
endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The Superintendent may set limitations lower than limitations
established in this section if, in his or her opinion, such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objections. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the Superintendent will give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, the town’s NPDES permit, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as
follows:
         (a)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C),
or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent
at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C),
or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein;
         (b)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
         (c)   Any quantities or flow, concentrations or both which constitute
a “slug” as defined in §
50.01;
         (d)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
50.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or when
served by caterers;
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
         (f)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
         (g)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm drainage or
groundwater;
         (h)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
         (i)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (j)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of the following limits for such
materials.
Waste or Chemical Daily Maximum Concentration  30-Day Average Concentration
                  (mg/l)                       (mg/l)
Waste or Chemical           Daily Maximum Concentration 30-Day Average
                            (mg/l)                      Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic
Cadmium                     1.2                         0.5
Copper                      4.5                         1.8
Cyanide                     0.8                         0.23
Lead                        0.6                         0.3
Mercury
Nickel                      4.1                         1.8
Silver
Total chromium              7.0                         2.5
Zinc                        4.2                         1.8
Total heavy metals (copper, 10.5                        5.0
chromium, nickel, zinc)
Notes to Table:
Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the town’s wastewater treatment
system
 
         (k)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the
wastewater disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance of any regulatory agency or state or federal regulatory body; and
         (l)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of division (P) below.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
treatment facilities, processes or equipment; receiving water and/or soil,
vegetation and groundwater; or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the town may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b),
and all addendums thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owner’s expense, and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the town pursuant to the requirements of the WVDEP.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (C)
and (D) above, or contained in the national categorical pretreatment standards
or any state requirements.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
   (H)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
division (D)(2)(b) above, any flammable wastes as specified in division (C)(1)
above, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of
the collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must be
performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   (I)   Where required by the town, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
Such structure shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the town. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the town, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special conditions for discharge
established by the town or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the town. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the town at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the town. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting
required by the town. At such times as deemed necessary, the town reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   (1)   Where required by the town, the owner of any property serviced
by a sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Users shall notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a
slug or accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this
chapter to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize
damage to the wastewater treatment works. Such notification will not relieve
any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater
treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the town on
account thereof under any state and federal law. Employees shall ensure that
all employees who may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (M)   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains
into the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a
deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 90 days
after receipt of written notice from the town, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap or, if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 120 days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (N)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Superintendent may direct. Each day after seven days that a person neglects
or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and
the Superintendent may then cause the work to be done, and recover from such
owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the town.
   (O)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (P)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the town may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the town.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern, providing that national categorical pretreatment standards
and the town’s NPDES permit limitations are not violated.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 TAMPERING AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charge(s) applicable to the type of
service and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021)
§ 50.09 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the town,
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the town’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential, however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The town does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021)
§ 50.10 STATE SEWERAGE UTILITIES RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Rules and regulations for the government of sewerage utilities
adopted by the State Public Service Commission and now in effect, and all
amendments thereto and modifications thereof hereafter made by said Commission,
are adopted by the town.
      (2)   The town shall have a lien on all lands, building and premises
served by the sewer facilities thereof, which lien shall attach when fees,
rates and charges have been delinquent for 30 days, as provided by W. Va. Code
§ 16-13-16a.
   (B)   Applicability. Applicable inside the entire territory served.
   (C)   Availability of service. Available for general domestic, commercial
and industrial sanitary sewer service.
   (D)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   Generally. Flat rate per 1,000 gallons used per month: $20.10 per
1,000 gallons.
      (2)   Minimum charge. No bill will be rendered for less than $40.20,
which is equivalent of 2,000 gallons per month at a rate of $20.10 per 1,000
gallons.
      (3)   Unmetered rate. The unmetered monthly bill shall be $80.40 per
month (based on 4,000 gallons).
      (4)   Connection charge. The connection charge for each new tap to the
system shall be $300 or the actual costs as solely determined by the town.
      (5)   Disconnect for nonpayment. If any bill is not paid within 20 days
after the bill due date, water service to the customer will be discontinued and
will not be restored until all past due bills have been paid in full, together
with all penalty charges, the disconnection charge and the reconnection charge,
subject to the applicable rules of the State Public Service Commission.
      (6)   Disconnect/reconnect/administrative fees.
         (a)   Whenever water service has been disconnected for nonpayment of
sewer bills in conjunction with a water service termination agreement with West
Virginia American Water, a disconnection fee of $20 shall be charged; or, in
the event the delinquent sewer bill is collected by the water company, an
administrative fee of $20 shall be charged.
         (b)   Whenever water service has been disconnected for nonpayment of
sewer bills in conjunction with a water service termination agreement with West
Virginia American Water, a reconnection fee of $20 shall be charged; or in the
event the delinquent sewer bill is collected by the water company, an
administrative fee of $20 shall be charged.
      (7)   Delayed payment penalty. The schedule provided in this section is
net. On all accounts not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net
current amount unpaid. This payment is not interest and is to be collected only
once for each bill where it is appropriate.
      (8)   Security deposit. A security deposit will be required for all new
accounts opened within the territory served. The deposit shall be not more than
$80 or two-twelfths of the average annual usage of the applicant’s specific
customer class, whichever is greater.
      (9)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed by the banking institution to the sewer utility up to a maximum of
$25 (per W. Va. Code § 61-3-39E) will be imposed upon any customer whose check
for payment of charges is returned by the banking institution due to
insufficient funds.
   (E)   Municipal excise tax surcharge.
      (1)   The municipality listed below, having imposed public utility tax
computed on the basis of 2% of revenues from the sewer service sales by the
sewer utility within the corporate limits of such municipalities, shall be
billed as a “surcharge” to the customers receiving service within said
corporate limits.
      (2)   The sewer utility is required to collect the utility tax pursuant
to W. Va. Code § 8-13-5A.
      (3)   Customers receiving sewer service within the corporate limits of
the specified municipality shall pay a surcharge based on the following
surcharge rates.
 
Municipality   Utility Excise Tax
Town of Ansted Local utility excise tax rate: 2%
 
   (F)   Storm sewer drain and broken or damaged service connection.
      (1)   No person shall connect or permit to be connected a storm sewer or
storm drain to a sanitary sewer, or otherwise allow or permit stormwater to
enter a sanitary sewer, or continue to have a storm sewer or storm drain
connected to a sanitary sewer, or continue to allow or permit stormwater to
enter a sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall also apply outside the
municipality where sanitary sewers are connected to the sanitary sewer system
of the town.
      (3)   Wherever the Town Sewer Department has discovered that a customer’s
broken or damaged service connection, roof drain, downspout, storm sewer or
other similar or like facilities conducting surface water have been connected
to the town sanitary sewer system, and such customer has failed to take
appropriate action within 30 days of receipt of a demand by the Town Sewer
Department in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Public
Service Commission, to eliminate such connection or defect, a surcharge will be
imposed upon the customer calculated on the basis of the following formula.
 
S = A x R x 0.0006233 x C
S         The surcharge in dollars.
A         The area under roof and/or the area of any other water collection
          surface connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet.
R         The measured monthly rainfall.
0.0006233 A conversion factor to change inches of rain x square feet of surface
          to thousands of gallons of water.
C         The Town Sewer Department approved rate per 1,000 gallons of sewage
          treated.
 
      (4)   The Town Sewer Department shall not impose the surcharge unless and
until the customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke testing,
dye testing or on-site inspection that rain or other surface water is being
introduced into the sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, and that
the customer has not acted within 30 days from receipt of such notice to divert
the water from the sanitary sewer.
      (5)   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month that
said condition continues to exist. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or correct
the situation shall give rise to the possible termination of water service in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Public Service
Commission.
      (6)   The above rates and charges shall be applicable for any owner or
occupant of each and every lot or parcel of land or building situated within or
without the corporate limits of the town and having any connection to the
sanitary sewer system of the town.
   (G)   Disconnection.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Document adopted 12-3-2020) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $25 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed as a
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
town by reason of such violation.
   (B)   Any person violating §
50.07 shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2021)
CHAPTER 51: REFUSE DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Collection generally; permits; health officer
   
51.03   Permitting accumulation of refuse
   
51.04   Delivery of refuse upon private property
   
51.05   Disposal of refuse in other than standard domestic incinerators
   
51.06   Throwing, scattering or burning refuse upon any premises, street or
place
   
51.07   Accumulation of refuse; owner responsibility; action by town
   
51.08   Storing of refuse in separate containers
   
51.09   Removal from premises not equipped with standard containers
   
51.10   Depositing garbage in refuse containers
   
51.11   Push carts for collecting garbage and rubbish; permits
   
51.12   County enforcement guidelines
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who, for hire, collects, removes or disposes of
refuse.
   REFUSE. All sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, garbage,
industrial or domestic wastes, organic wastes or residue of animals sold as
meat, fruit or other vegetable matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets or
places dealing in or handling meats, fowls, fruits, grain or vegetables, offal,
animal excreta, the carcass of animals, tree or shrub trimmings, dirt, wood,
stone, brick, plaster or materials resulting from the demolition, alteration or
construction of buildings or structures, accumulated waste materials or
substances which may become nuisances, some of which are more particularly
classified as follows:
      (1)   PREPARED GARBAGE. Waste material from kitchens, dining rooms and
similar places, from which liquids have been drained and solid matter wrapped
in paper.
      (2)   RAW GARBAGE. Swill not prepared as in division (1) of this
definition.
      (3)   REFUSE DISPOSAL. The disposition of refuse in accordance with rules
and regulations promulgated by the Town Health Commissioner.
      (4)   REFUSE COLLECTION. The gathering of refuse containers and their
contents from the premises of improved property, loading contents into removal
vehicles, and returning containers to place where found after contents have
been emptied, for which the charge is made as provided for in §
51.05.
      (5)   REFUSE CONTAINERS. The noncombustible trash containers and the
garbage and combustible trash containers referred to in this chapter shall meet
the following specifications.
         (a)   CONTAINERS FOR GARBAGE AND COMBUSTIBLE TRASH. Standard
containers for the storage of garbage and combustible trash shall be
substantially made of metal, leak-proof and watertight, shall have a capacity
of approximately 20 gallons and shall be equipped with at least two carrying
handles with a tight-fitting metal cover or as shall otherwise be prescribed by
the Town Health Commissioner.
         (b) CONTAINERS FOR NONCOMBUSTIBLE TRASH. Standard containers for the
storage of noncombustible trash shall be substantially made of metal, shall
have a capacity of not less than 20 nor more than 30 gallons, and shall be
equipped with at least two carrying handles with a tightfitting metal cover or
as shall otherwise be prescribed by the Town Health Commissioner.
      (6)   REFUSE REMOVAL. The hauling and transportation of refuse from point
of collection to point of disposal.
      (7)   TRASH. Waste material containing no putrid matter or organic
wastes.
         (a)   COMBUSTIBLE TRASH. Trash, as hereinabove defined, which is
capable of being burned.
         (b)   NONCOMBUSTIBLE TRASH. Trash, as hereinabove defined, which is
not capable of being burned, which includes but is not limited to bottles, cans
and metals.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 1)
§ 51.02 COLLECTION GENERALLY; PERMITS; HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those person or
persons who have a franchise from the Public Service Commission, to engage in
or conduct the business of collection, removal or disposal of refuse, raw
garbage or prepared garbage within the corporate limits unless such person or
persons shall have applied for and have been issued an annual permit to operate
as a private collector, remover and disposer of refuse and garbage by the
health officer of the town.
      (2)   Such permits shall be and remain in full force and effect,
unexpired and not revoked, and such permit card or certificate from the health
officer shall be carried by such refuse collector on his or her person and
exhibited by him or her on request to any police, health or other proper
officer of the town.
   (B)   Such operator shall also operate in conformity with all rules and
regulations providing for and pertaining to sanitation prescribed and
promulgated by the health officer and, provided, further, that, if such
collector omit, fail or refuse to operate in conformity with such rules and
regulations, his or her permit may be revoked and cancelled by the health
officer.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PERMITTING ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit the accumulation
of refuse in, about or upon premises owned, occupied or used by him or her,
when and if, in the judgment of the Town Health Commissioner such accumulation
is unsightly, unsanitary or hazardous to the property, life, health, safety or
welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 14) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 DELIVERY OF REFUSE UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to deliver refuse to or upon private property.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 15) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE IN OTHER THAN STANDARD DOMESTIC INCINERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of refuse within the
corporate limits except in standard domestic incinerators constructed for the
purpose, which have been inspected by and approved as safe by authorized
representatives of both the Fire Department and Health Commissioner.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 16) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 THROWING, SCATTERING OR BURNING REFUSE UPON ANY PREMISES, STREET OR
PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Throw, place or scatter any garbage, rubbish, trash or other refuse,
over or upon any premises or street, either public or private or adjacent
thereto, either with or without the intention to later remove or burn the same;
   (B)   Suffer or permit, from the accumulation of refuse, any premises owned,
occupied or controlled by such person to become or remain offensive,
unsanitary, unsightly or unsafe to public health or hazardous from fire; or
   (C)   Burn any such garbage, rubbish, trash or other refuse within the
corporate limits in any way other than in a domestic type incinerator approved
by the Fire Department of the town.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY; ACTION BY TOWN.
   Whenever garbage, rubbish, trash or other refuse shall be allowed to
accumulate upon any premises within the town in such quantities as to be a fire
hazard, or detrimental to public health, or both, the owner of the property
upon which such accumulation is found shall be responsible for its removal and
shall be required to remove or cause to be removed such accumulation within 48
hours after receipt of written notice so to do from the Bureau of Fire
Prevention or the Health Department of the town; and if such person shall fail,
within the time indicated in such order or notice, to comply with said notice,
a copy of the notice or order shall then be transmitted to the Town
Superintendent, who shall thereupon authorize and direct the Street Department
to remove such accumulation of refuse; and, after the removal of such refuse,
the Town Superintendent shall notify the Recorder to collect from said person
the amount of the expense to the town of such removal. The provisions of this
chapter relating to collection of charges by the Recorder for ordinary refuse
service and the rates thereof shall be applicable to the charges provided for
under this section.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 20)
§ 51.08 STORING OF REFUSE IN SEPARATE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage of refuse
on or about his or her premises, or the premises occupied by him or her, unless
such refuse if kept separately in standard containers for noncombustible trash
and for garbage and combustible trash.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 21) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 REMOVAL FROM PREMISES NOT EQUIPPED WITH STANDARD CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect or remove any refuse from the
premises of any person or tenant thereof, unless such premises are equipped
with standard containers referred to in this chapter, and unless such refuse is
kept stored in such containers.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 22) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 DEPOSITING GARBAGE IN REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or store garbage in refuse
containers unless such garbage has been prepared for collection, removal and
disposal, and complies with the definition of prepared garbage.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 23) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 PUSH CARTS FOR COLLECTING GARBAGE AND RUBBISH; PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle, commonly known as a push cart, for
the purpose of collecting garbage, unless and until he or she shall have
applied for and been issued an annual permit to operate as such collector by
the health officer of the town, and such permit shall be and remain in full
force and effect, unexpired and not revoked.
   (B)   Such permit card or certificate from the health officer shall be
carried by such collector on his or her person and exhibited by him or her on
request to any police, health or other proper officer of the town; and such
collector shall operate in conformity with all rules and regulations providing
for and pertaining to sanitation prescribed and promulgated by the health
officer, and provided further, that if such collector omit, fail or refuse to
operate in conformity with such rules and regulations his or her permit may be
revoked and cancelled by the health officer.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 25) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 COUNTY ENFORCEMENT GUIDELINES.
   The town hereby adopts the rules and guidelines of the County Solid Waste
Authority pertaining to mandatory garbage enforcement. Every household must
sign up for authorized trash pick up.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of regulations is to assure the regular
(mandatory) removal of trash/garbage from all private and commercial properties
in the county, under authority of W. Va. Code Chapter 22C, Article 4, § 23.
   (B)   Application and enforcement.
      (1)   This section applies to all garbage/disposal in the county.
      (2)    Enforcement of these regulations is vested in the County Solid
Waste Authority, United States Park Service, State of West Virginia, Division
of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection, County Commission
and Local Law Enforcement Agencies.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Any location not classified as a residence that generates solid
waste. 22C-4-2
      PERSONS. Individuals, partnerships, associations, syndicate, company,
firm, trust, corporations, government corporation, institution, department,
division, bureau, agency, federal agency or any other entity recognized by law.
      PRIVATE HAULER. Any hauler with a certificate of convenience with the
State Public Service Commission to service the county.
      RESIDENCE. Any structure or shelter of any part thereof, in which a
person spends one or more nights per year.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, paper, litter, refuse, cans, bottles, waste
processed for the express purpose of incineration, sludge from a waste
treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility, other discarded material, including offensive or unsightly matter,
solid, liquid, semisolid or contained liquid or gaseous material resulting from
industrial, commercial, mining or community activities, but does not include
solid or dissolved material in sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources and
have permits under W. Va. Code §§ 22-11-1 et seq., or source, special nuclear
or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended,
including any nuclear or byproduct material considered by federal standards to
be below regulatory concern, or a hazardous waste (W. Va. Code §§ 22-18-1 et
seq.), refuse, slurry, overburden or other waste or material resulting from
coal-fired electric power or steam generation, the exploration, development,
production, storage and recovery of coal, oil and gas, and other mineral
resources placed or disposed of at a facility which is regulated under W. Va.
Code §§ 22-2-1 et seq., 22-3-1 et seq., 22-4-1 et seq., 22-6-1 et seq., 22-7-
1 et seq., 22-8-1 et seq., 22-9-1 et seq. or 22-10-1 et seq.), or W. Va. Code
§§ 22A-1-1 et seq., so long as such placement or disposal is in conformance
with a permit issued pursuant to said chapters. SOLID WASTE does not include
materials which are recycled by being used or reused in an industrial process
to make a product, as effective substitutes for commercial products, or are
returned to the original process as a substitute for raw material feedstock
   (D)   Proof of proper solid waste disposal and fees.
      (1)   Every person occupying a residence aud/or operating a business must
have solid waste disposal service through a private hauler or shall be able to
provide proof of legal disposal.
      (2)   Fees for the collection service will be determined by the Public
Service Commission in accordance with its rules and regulations.
   (E)   Solid waste handling.
      (1)   The storage, collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste
(trash/garbage) shall be conducted as not to create unsanitary conditions,
nuisances, rodent harborage, insect breeding, accidents of fire hazards or air
pollution and in accordance with existing law.
      (2)   All solid waste shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-
proof containers which shall be maintained in a clean condition and kept in
good repair.
      (3)   Residential solid waste shall be collected at least one time per
week or shall be removed from the property of an individual disposing of his or
her own solid waste at least one time per week.
   (F)   Customer listing.
      (1)   Every common carrier of solid waste shall on an annual basis
provide a listing of its residential customer, including names and service
addresses or, in the alternative, a listing of the names and addresses of non-
subscribing residents in its service area.
(PSC Rule 150-9-7)
      (2)   At any time service is terminated by customer or by common carrier,
notice of such termination will be provided to the Payette County Solid Waste
Authority.
   (G)   The County Solid Waste Authority shall deliver notice to the property
owner informing the resident that W. Va. Code § 22C-4-10 and the County Solid
Waste Authority regulations requires citizens to subscribe to and use a solid
waste collection service or an approved collection facility. Enforcement of §
51.99(B) will be referred to the appropriate Enforcement Agency, as defined
division (B)(2) above.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined: for the first
offense, not less than $5 nor more than $10; for the second offense, not less
than $10 or more than $25; and for the third and each subsequent offense, not
less than $25 or more than $50.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, § 8)
   (B)   (1)   A civil penalty of $150 shall be assessed to any persons not
receiving service as prescribed in §
51.12. For each week after notification of the violation and until proof of
compliance is received shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   Any person who violates the Litter Control Law W. Va. Code § 20-7-
26a is subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $25,000.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2004)
CHAPTER 52: WATER; COMMERCIAL WELLS
Section
   
52.01   Definition
   
52.02   Unlawful use of water
   
52.03   Abandon wells
   
52.04   Disposal of water from commercial wells
   
52.05   Deposits in sewers from commercial wells
   
52.06   Sewerage service charges
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal waterworks, see W. Va. Code § Chapter 8, Article 19
§ 52.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL WELL. Any well used to obtain water for air conditioning,
refrigerating, laundering, washing or other business or industrial purpose. It
shall not include wells used exclusively for private homes, for watering stock
or for farm or agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 1)
§ 52.02 UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, furnish, take or permit to be
taken, or use any water from the hydrants or other attachments of any company
furnishing water under a franchise of the town to the inhabitants thereof, for
domestic or other purposes, without having contracted for the same, with intent
to defraud said company out of its revenue, and no person shall introduce the
hydrant water or water derived from the system of any company holding such a
franchise on his or her premises, without the authority or consent of such
company so authorized to furnish water to the inhabitants of the town.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 ABANDON WELLS.
   Whenever any water well is abandoned or no longer used, it shall be solidly
filled with compact material.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 9)
§ 52.04 DISPOSAL OF WATER FROM COMMERCIAL WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person hereafter installing a commercial well,
to permit the water taken therefrom to be discharged into the public sewers.
Such water shall be disposed of by means of return wells into the earth or by
other means approved by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 10) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 DEPOSITS IN SEWERS FROM COMMERCIAL WELLS.
   Wherever, in the case of commercial well heretofore installed, the water
taken therefrom is discharged into public sewers, the owner of the premises on
which or for which such well is maintained, shall pay to the town any expense
incurred by it for the removal of sand, gravel or other material deposited in
town sewers from any such well.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 11)
§ 52.06 SEWERAGE SERVICE CHARGES.
   In the event the town shall hereafter levy charges for the use of public
sewers, based on the consumption of water, the owner of any premises from which
water is discharged from commercial wells into town sewers, shall meter the
flow of such well water and pay sewer service charges to the town on the basis
of such measured use or, in the alternative, shall pay such charges on the
basis of the quantity of well water flow as estimated by the proper town
officer.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 12)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates§
52.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not exceeding $50. Each
day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates §§
52.03 through
52.05 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $100.
Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, § 99)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Definitions and abbreviations
Regulations
   
53.015   General discharge prohibitions
   
53.016   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.017   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.018   State requirements
   
53.019   Town’s right of revision
   
53.020   Excessive discharge
   
53.021   Accidental discharge
Fees
   
53.035   Purpose
   
53.036   Charges and fees
Administration
   
53.050   Wastewater discharges
   
53.051   Wastewater contribution permits
   
53.052   Monitoring facilities
   
53.053   Inspection and sampling
   
53.054   Pretreatment
   
53.055   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
53.070   Harmful contributions
   
53.071   Revocation of permit
   
53.072   Notification of violation
   
53.073   Show cause hearing
   
53.074   Legal action
 
   
53.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth the uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town, and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.,
and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the wastewater
system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other uses, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be pre-
empted and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of
costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the town and to persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the town POTW. Except
as otherwise provided herein, the Sanitary Board or its authorized agent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in a NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized
representative of an industrial user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of Vice
President, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietorship, respectively; and
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matters under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standards.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
publicity owned treatment works NPDES permit, where the publicly owned
treatment work is designed to treat such pollutants and, in fact, does treat
such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW’s NPDES permit.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The approval authority, as defined hereinabove; or the
Sanitary Board or its authorized agent.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the state.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants,
as defined herein.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute
a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes or operations or which contributes to a violation of any requirement
of the town’s NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use
or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345)
or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria (including those
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of
SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MANAGER. The person designated by the Sanitary Board to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD OR PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)) and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
      PERSONS. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
      POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT.
         (a)   The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into POTW.
         (b)   The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical or biological processes or process changes by other means, except as
prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the town.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the town’s wastewater
disposal system who: has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average
work day; or has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the town’s wastewater
treatment system; or has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined
pursuant to § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317; or state statutes and
rules; or is found by the town (State Control Agency) or the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions
generated by the system.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the “Standard Industrial Classification Manual” issued by the Executive Office
of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
      STATE. The State of West Virginia.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOWN. The Town of Ansted or the Town Council of Ansted.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a), being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a), or other Acts.
      USER. Any person who contributed causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s POTW.
      WASTEWATER. The domestic wastes liquid and water-carried industrial or
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.051.
      WATER OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs; aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings.
BOD5   Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per Liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
U.S.C. United States Code
TSS    Total Suspended Solids
 
(Ord. passed - -)
**** REGULATIONS ****
§ 53.015 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users
of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. A user may not contribute the following substances
to any POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or can be injurious in any other way to
the POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or at any point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single reading
over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene,
xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides and sulfides, and any
other substances which the town, the state or the EPA has not notified the user
is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities, such as, but not limited to: grease; garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension; animal guts or tissues; paunch manure;
bones; hair; hides or fleshings; entrails; whole blood; feathers; ashes;
cinders; sand; spent lime; stone or marble dust; metal; glass; straw; shavings;
grass clippings; rags; spent grains; spent hops; waste paper; wood or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil; mud or glass grinding; or polished
wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and/or personnel of the POTW;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry to the sewers for
their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation process where the POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program.
In no case, shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria
guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being
15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C (104°F) unless the POTW treatment plant is designed to accommodate such
temperatures;
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows or
has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a slug
load have a flow rate or for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than
five times the average 24-hour concentration, quantities or flow during normal
operation;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Manager
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulation; and
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
   (B)   When the Manager determines that a user(s) is contributing to the
POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, the Manager shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
and
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the
interference with POTW.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.016 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standard for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The Manager
shall notify all affected users of the applicable requirements under 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.12.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.017 MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where the town’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the town may
apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
federal pretreatment standards.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean
reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the
pollutant by the wastewater treatment system in 95% of the samples taken when
measured according to the procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7(c)(2),
“General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution,”
promulgated pursuant to the Act.
   (C)   The town may modify pollution discharge limits in the federal
pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403,
including § 403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority
is obtained.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.019 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.001.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.020 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the town or state. (Comment: Dilution may be an
acceptable means of complying with some of the prohibitions set forth in §
53.015, e.g., the pH prohibition.)
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Sanitary Board for review and shall be approved by the
Sanitary Board before construction of the facility. All existing users shall
complete such a plan by January 1, 1991.
      (2)   No user who commences contribution to POTW after the effective date
of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system
until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the Sanitary Board
review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not retrieve
the industrial user from the responsibility to modify user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of an
accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective
actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Manager a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to persons or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, article or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice of employee. A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s
bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the
event of the dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. passed - -)
**** FEES ****
§ 53.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the town’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of
the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in the town’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.036 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts charge and fees to assist industry while
industry establishes a pretreatment program which includes:
      (1)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures, if
necessary, $40 per man hour;
      (2)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction
at $40 per man hour;
      (3)   Fees for permit application, $250. The Manager may, at his or her
discretion, waive the preliminary permit fee for tapping for users already in
operation. This waiver only applies to said fee and not to any additional
charges;
      (4)   Fees for filing appeal, $125;
      (5)   Fees for treatment of compatible pollutant parameters of B.O.D. and
T.S.S.:
 
Ci - Vo Vi= Bo Bi= So Si
Bi Weight of BOD from industrial users, in pounds per year
Bo Average unit cost of treatment, chargeable to biochemical oxygen demand
   (BOD), in dollars per pound
Ci Charge to industrial users per year
Si Weight of total solids from industrial users, in pounds per year
So Average unit cost of treatment (including sludge treatment) chargeable to
   total solids, in dollars per pound
Vo Average unit cost of transport and treatment chargeable to volume, in
   dollars per gallon
 
      (6)   Other fees as the Sanitary Board may deem necessary to carry out
the requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the Sanitary Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 53.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a Sanitary Board permit to any
natural outlet within the town or in any other area under the jurisdiction of
said Sanitary Board, and/or in the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by
the Manger in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   General permits. All significant users proposing to connect to or to
contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users
connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution
permit within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution
permit shall complete and file with the Sanitary Board, and application in the
form prescribed by the Sanitary Board, and accompanied by a fee of $250.
Existing users shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days
after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at
least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. In support of
the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §§
53.015 through
53.021 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to § 304(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(h), and contained in 40
C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly, seasonable variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are listed by any town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional O&M and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards;
      (9)   (a)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to
meet the pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard.
         (b)   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
            2.   No increment referred to in division (B)(9)(b)1. above shall
exceed nine months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Manager, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on such date, and, if not, the date on which it expects
to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps
being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule established.
In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to
the Manager;
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Sanitary Board to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Permit review.
      (1)   A specified period of 30 days will be given for the Sanitary Board
to determine if an application is complete. If complete, notification will be
given to the industry. If not, additional information will be requested in
writing.
      (2)   A specified period of 90 days is given for the Sanitary Board to
act on a complete application. The Sanitary Board’s action could be the denial
of a permit or the issuance of a draft permit.
      (3)   A specified period of 30 days will be given for comments on a draft
permit by the affected industry with a provision for holding a public meeting
if requested by the industry.
      (4)   A specified period of 30 days is given for appeal of a final permit
and procedures for appeal.
   (D)   Permit modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit
of users subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by
division (B) above, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater
contribution permit shall submit to the Manager within 180 days after the
promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the
information required by divisions (B)(8) and (B)(9) above.
   (E)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the Sanitary Board. Permits may contain
the following:
      (1)   The unit change or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rates and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs, which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
report, if applicable;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Sanitary Board, and affording
Sanitary Board access thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the Sanitary Board or any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §
53.071; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Sanitary Board to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Permits duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than a
year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for
permit reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s
existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the Sanitary Board during the term of the permit as limitations
or requirements as identified in §§
53.015 through
53.021 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (G)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to new owner, new user, different premises,
nor a new or changed operation without the approval of the Sanitary Board. Any
succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the
existing permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.052 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Sanitary Board shall require to be provided and operated at the
user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and
flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
Sanitary Board may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street
or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the Sanitary Board’s
requirement and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the Sanitary Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.053 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Sanitary Board shall inspect the facilities of any user to assure
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the Sanitary Board, or their authorized agent, ready
access at all times and to all parts of the premises for the purpose of
inspection, sampling, records examination or in the performance of their
duties. The Sanitary Board, approval authority and (where the NPDES state is
the approval authority), the EPA shall have the right to set upon the user’s
property such devices necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security
guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the
Sanitary Board, approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter without
delay for the purpose of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.054 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required
to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations.
      (2)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the Sanitary Board shall be provided, operated and maintained at
the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the Sanitary Board for review, and
shall be acceptable to the Sanitary Board before construction of the facility.
      (3)   The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the Sanitary Board under the provisions of
this chapter.
      (4)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the Sanitary Board prior to
the user’s initiation of changes.
   (B)   The Sanitary Board may annually publish, in the local newspapers, a
list of the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment
requirements or standards, at least twice during the previous 12-month period.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA, or approval authority, upon request.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.055 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from
inspections, shall be available to the public or other governmental agencies
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Sanitary Board, or town, that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production, entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (2)   When requested by the person furnishing the report, the portions of
a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes, shall not be
made available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state disposal system
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report.
   (B)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the Sanitary Board as confidential shall not
be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the
Sanitary Board until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. passed - -)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 53.070 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The Sanitary Board may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or the
wastewater contribution permit and the permittee shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Sanitary Board shall take such steps
as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individual. The Sanitary Board shall reinstate the wastewater contribution
permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of
the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrences shall be submitted to the Sanitary Board within
15 days of the date of the occurrence.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.071 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state or federal regulation is subject to having his or her permit
revoked in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of their discharge;
   (B)   Failure of user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; and
   (D)   Violation of the conditions of this permit.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.072 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Sanitary Board finds that a user has violated, or is violating,
this chapter; wastewater contribution permit, or any prohibition limitation or
requirement contained herein, the Sanitary Board may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the
notice date, a plan for satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to
the Sanitary Board by the user.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.073 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Sanitary Board may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of
a hearing to be held by the Sanitary Board regarding the violation, the reasons
why the action is taken, the proposed enforcement action and directing the user
to show cause before the Sanitary Board as to why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer
of a corporation.
   (B)   The Sanitary Board may itself conduct the hearing or may designate any
member, officer or employee to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Sanitary Board notices of the hearing
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Accept the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Sanitary
Board for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, all testimony taken must
be recorded. The transcript will be made available to any member of the public
or any party to the hearing upon payment of usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the Sanitary Board has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be
issued.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.074 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
town’ s POTW contrary to the provision of this chapter, federal or state
pretreatment requirements or any order of the Sanitary Board, the Sanitary
Board Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief in the Circuit Court of this County.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the Sanitary Board,
or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, shall
be fined not less than $100, nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day on
which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Sanitary
Board may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’
fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the
person found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations
and permit issued hereunder.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, report, record, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adopting state code
§ 70.01 ADOPTING STATE CODE.
   (A)   The town adopts all statutes regarding traffic offenses as contained
within the state code, and any subsequent amendments to such statutes passed by
the state legislature and which are signed into law by the executive branch of
government. For the purpose of this section, traffic statutes as contained
within the state code are those statutes that proscribe specific conduct and
which impose as a possible penalty a fine only and a fine and/or a period of
incarceration in the county or regional jail of one year or less upon the
commission of such proscribed conduct.
   (B)   For purpose of this section, in the event that a traffic statute
within the state code authorizes incarceration in a county or regional jail as
a possible penalty, and such term of incarceration specified in the state code
is in excess of 30 days, such statute shall be amended for purposes of
inclusion in this code as having a maximum term of incarceration of 30 days in
the county or regional jail.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
RVs, Motor Homes and the Like
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Requirements
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
71.15   Prohibition of operation and use of all-terrain vehicles
   
71.16   Exceptions
   
71.17   All-terrain vehicle guidelines and regulations
   
71.18   Liability
   
71.19   Definitions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
**** RVS, MOTOR HOMES AND THE LIKE ****
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or RV. A motor home, travel trailer, fifth-wheel
trailer, park model recreational vehicle or folding camping trailer, with or
without power, designed for recreational or emergency occupancy. It does not
include pick-up hoods, shells or canopies designed, created or modified for
occupational usage. School buses or van-type vehicles which are converted to
recreational use are defined as RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   SITE STANDS. A space set aside for parking of recreational vehicles and
personal cars or trucks at a commercial RV park. For the purpose of this
definition, SITE can include separate picnic tables and fire pits for campers
to use during stay.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
§ 71.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to recreational vehicle parks and
shall be referred to hereinafter as “RV park requirements.”
   (A)   Minimum park area. The minimum size of an RV park shall be five acres
without any other structures.
   (B)   Density. Shall not exceed 15 campground sites per acre.
   (C)   Streets.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be continuous and in alignment with
existing, planned or platted streets with which they are to connect.
      (2)   All dead-end streets shall terminate in a circular turn-around
having a minimum right-of-way diameter of 80 feet unless the town approves a
“T” or “Y” turnaround.
      (3)   Street rights-of-way shall be a minimum of 30 feet in width, of
which 18 feet shall be used for ingress and egress. One-way streets that are
not main entrances shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width.
      (4)   (a)   Surfacing. Streets shall be surfaced with gravel, asphalt or
cement binder to provide for a durable and dustless surface and shall be graded
and drained to dispose of water accumulation.
         (b)   Gravel streets. Gravel streets shall be constructed on a
compacted sub grade free of organic matter. The gravel shall be a well-graded
crushed stone aggregate six inches thick after rolling. The surface shall be
smooth, uniform and tightly packed.
         (c)   Asphalt and concrete streets. Shall be constructed as gravel
streets with the addition of a minimum of two inches of bituminous material or
six inches of concrete material rolled smooth, seamless and uniform.
      (5)   All streets shall be clearly identified by permanent street signs.
   (D)   Parcels. Only one RV per site is permitted, and it shall abut on a
street.
   (E)   Minimum parcel size. Minimum parcel size shall be 1,200 square feet,
not to include road rights-of-way. Each RV site shall have a minimum road
frontage (width) of 25 feet along a platted road right-of-way. Must have a
minimum of ten feet between site stands.
   (F)   Open space. A minimum of 15% of the total area shall be designated as
open space.
   (G)   Lighting. All parks shall provide an adequate lighting system.
   (H)   Off-street parking. No on-street parking shall be allowed. A minimum
of two 180-square-foot off-street parking spaces shall be required per site.
Each parking space shall have a minimum dimension of ten feet by 18 feet.
Designated parking areas may not be used for overnight camping or occupancy.
   (I)   Minimum setback requirements.
      (1)   All RV units and accessory buildings shall be set back a minimum of
40 feet from the street or highway right-of-way line; or for property abutting
a state or federal highway, the setback required shall be 40 feet.
      (2)   RV units shall be a minimum of 30 feet from other boundary lines of
the park and shall be a minimum of 30 feet from adjoining property lines.
   (J)   Utilities. All utilities shall be placed underground.
      (1)   Each individual RV site shall be provided its own water and
electrical connection; an RV site may contain sewerage connections. If not
provided at campsites, sewerage facilities must be provided at convenient
comfort stations as determined by the town.
      (2)   Each RV park shall be provided with one or more service buildings
equipped with flush toilets, lavatories, showers and laundry facilities meeting
standards established by the County Health Department. Such facilities shall be
conveniently located at distance of not more than 700 feet from any RV served.
Such facilities shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and plumbing
fixtures shall be maintained in good working order. All such facilities shall
be always adequately lighted and be well ventilated. Portable fire
extinguishers approved by the Town Fire Department shall be kept in the service
buildings and at all locations designated by the Fire Department.
      (3)   An RV park shall provide at least one sanitary sewage dump station,
one water refill station and one solid waste disposal collection facility.
      (4)   As a minimum, design capacities for centralized water and sewage
systems shall be based on the total number of RV sites proposed plus 25% more
capacity to accommodate a tent area (if any), plus an allowance for sewage dump
station and a water refill station.
   (K)   RV site stand. Each RV site shall provide an adequate stand for the
placement of a camping unit. An RV site stand shall be at least 15 feet by 25
feet in size. No more than one RV unit shall be placed on an RV site.
   (L)   Tents.
      (1)   A tent may be placed on any RV site. In addition, however, a
special tent area may be set aside and marked in an RV park for the random
location of tents.
      (2)   The capacity of a tent area shall be limited to 25% of the number
of designated RV sites within an RV park. A tent area need not be served
directly by water or sanitary facilities, provided a comfort station is located
withing 700 feet. The size of a tent area shall be based on 500 square feet per
eligible tent.
   (M)   Registration of occupants. It shall be the responsibility of the owner
or manager of the RV park to keep a current record of the names of the owners
and/or occupants of each RV space, the make and license number of each RV and
motor vehicle by which it is towed, the state, territory or country, and the
arrival and departure date of each occupant.
   (N)   Guest parking. There shall be provided guest parking in each RV park
at the ratio of one parking space for each five RV or camping sites within the
park.
   (O)   External fence.
      (1)   A six-inch opaque boundary fence must be constructed between all
adjoining properties designed to shield from public view the RV park. Boundary
fence must be maintained in a proper workmanlike manner.
      (2)   A boundary barrier of vegetation must be planted and maintained to
add a sound barrier for adjoining properties.
   (P)   Maximum rental period. Sites shall not be rented for a period
exceeding 30 consecutive days. No monthly rental of sites shall be permitted.
   (Q)   Law enforcement. All campgrounds shall enter into a letter of
understanding with Town Police Department giving authority to patrol the
grounds and to enter grounds for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
**** ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 71.15 PROHIBITION OF OPERATION AND USE OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The riding, operation or other use of all-terrain vehicles for
transportation or recreational purposes, within or upon the street, alleys,
sidewalks, parking lots and other governmentally owned, leased or controlled
property situated within the corporate limits of the town is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2025) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17F-1-3, the governing body of a
municipality may regulate in any manner, or prohibit by lawfully enacted
ordinance, the operation of all-terrain vehicles upon any street, road or
avenue within the municipal corporate limits.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, it shall not
be an offense for any person to lawfully ride, operate or otherwise use an all-
terrain vehicle:
      (1)   Upon any private property located within the corporate limits of
the town with the express permission of the property owner;
      (2)   For governmental purposes upon any realty owned or controlled by
the town or any of its Boards, authorities or commissions located within the
corporate limits of the town;
      (3)   When operated for governmental purposes by or at the direction of
any authorized employee, agent or officer of the federal government, the state
or other political subdivisions;
      (4)   Upon a designated parade route, when such person is duly registered
and recognized participant in any such permitted parade; provided, that such
all-terrain vehicle riding or operation occurs in conjunction with the parade;
and
      (5)   To travel on town streets for purposes of removing snow from
sidewalks, driveways and parking areas.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, it shall not
be an offense for any person who is 18 years of age or older and holds a valid
driver’s license to lawfully operate or ride such all-terrain vehicle upon any
roadway within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2025)
§ 71.17 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE GUIDELINES AND REGULATIONS.
   An all-terrain vehicle operated pursuant to the exceptions set forth in §
71.16 shall be subject to the following.
   (A)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road or
highway within the corporate limits of the town shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of W. Va. Code
Chapter 17C, except as to those provisions of said code section which by their
nature can have no application.
   (B)   Operators are put on notice that they are responsible for abiding by
all speed limits even if their vehicle is not equipped with an operable
speedometer.
      (1)   If no speed limit is posted, the maximum allowable speed will be 15
mph.
      (2)   Maximum speed allowed by any ATV is 25 mph, even when posted limits
are greater.
   (C)   No person may operate with a passenger under the age of 18, unless the
operator has minimum of a level two intermediate driver’s license, or its
equivalent, or is at least 18 years of age.
   (D)   No person may operate any all-terrain vehicle with passengers under
the age of 18 unless such passenger(s) are wearing appropriate protective
helmets that meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for protective headgear for vehicle users.
   (E)   Every operator who transports a child under the age of eight years
shall, while such vehicle is in motion and operated on a street, road or
highway of this municipality, provide for the protection of such child by
properly placing, maintaining and securing such child in a child passenger
safety device system meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards;
provided, that if a child is under the age of eight years and at least four
feet nine inches tall, a safety belt and helmet, as defined in division (D)
above, shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section. (All child
safety seat regulations, as per W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46 are adopted into this
section and will be strictly enforced.)
   (F)   When crossing any road or highway, the all-terrain vehicle shall cross
at a place where there are no obstructions that prevent a quick and safe
crossing, and the all-terrain vehicle is brought to a complete stop before
crossing a shoulder or any road or highway.
   (G)   The operator yields his or her right-of-way to all oncoming traffic.
   (H)   No operation of any all-terrain vehicle shall be operated between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
   (I)   Every all-terrain vehicle, while in motion, will have both the
headlight(s) and taillight(s) illuminated.
   (J)   Headlights are to be mounted at a height not to exceed 54 inches from
the center of the light to the road surface.
   (K)   Every all-terrain vehicle will have at least one functioning brake
light which emits red light and being visible during normal weather at a
distance of 100 feet when brakes are applied.
   (L)   If the ATV is not equipped with turn-signals, the operator will use
hand signals as designated by DOT standards to warn of turn at least 100 feet
prior to the intended turn.
      (1)   Right turn. Left arm extended out, bent at elbow in 90-degree angle
in the upward position.
      (2)   Left turn. Left arm straight out.
   (M)   Any ATV may be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar
lighting device comprised of multiple lamps; provided, that whenever the
vehicle is operated or driven upon any road or highway of this town, the roof-
mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall be turned off while the
vehicle is being operated on any road or highway within the corporate limits of
this town. This includes forward, rear and side facing light bars.
   (N)   Every ATV shall be equipped with a rearview mirror affixed to the
handlebars, fairings or rollbar and adjusted so that the operator has a clear
view of the road and condition of traffic behind him or her for a distance of
at least 200 feet.
   (O)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle shall be covered by a
policy of insurance with a minimum liability coverage limit of $25,000 because
of bodily injury to or death of one person in any accident, and subject to said
limit for one person, in the amount of $50,000 because of bodily injury to or
death of two or more persons in any one accident and in the amount of $25,000
because of injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.
   (P)   All-terrain vehicles must have a manufacturer-installed or equivalent
spark arrester and a manufacturer-installed or equivalent muffler in proper
working order and properly connected to the vehicle’s exhaust system.
   (Q)   All-terrain vehicles must travel single file while upon roadways
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (R)   Failure to abide by any of the above conditions when an all-terrain
vehicle, recreational off-road vehicle or golf cart is in use upon the roadways
within the corporate limits of the town shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2025) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 LIABILITY.
   Nothing contained within this subchapter is intended to create, nor shall be
construed as to create or form the basis for, any civil or administrative
liability whatsoever on the part of the town, or any of its officers, employees
or agents, for any injury or damage resulting to any person whomsoever as a
consequence of any action or inaction on the part of the town, relating in any
manner to the enforcement or non-enforcement of this subchapter by city
officers, officials, employees or agents.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2025)
§ 71.19 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. As defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-1(ii), (uu) and (vv),
and W. Va. Code § 17F-1-9(a)(1)(2), and shall include MOTORIZED CARTS.
   MOTORIZED CARTS. Electric- and gasoline-powered carts, commonly referred as
golf carts or utility vehicles that are designed for low-speed operation.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2025)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
71.15 constitutes the commission of a misdemeanor criminal offense, and the
Police Department of the town, or any other officer of any other police agency
exercising proper
jurisdiction within the corporate limits of the town, is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue a citation and to charge any person who commits a violation
of §
71.15, jurisdiction thereof being in the Municipal Court.
(Ord. passed 1-2-2025)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC SERVICES; PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   HAZARD MITIGATION
      
94.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC SERVICES; PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Town Property
   
90.01   Supervision and care of grounds and buildings; leases; improvements
Park Regulations
   
90.15   Public parking
   
90.16   Improvement of parks, squares
   
90.17   Offenses in public parks, squares
   
90.18   Government property declared public parks
   
90.19   Injuring trees
   
90.20   Public fountains
   
90.21   Entering playground after hours
   
90.22   Park rules
Statutory reference:
   Board of Park Commissioner, see W. Va. Code Chapter 8, Article 21
**** TOWN PROPERTY ****
§ 90.01 SUPERVISION AND CARE OF GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS; LEASES; IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Town Hall, all fire stations, the cemetery, the Town Jail, the property
owned by the town with any other lands and buildings of a public nature
hereafter acquired or built for town purposes, and such other grounds or lands
as may be hereafter acquired by the town for the purpose of parks or other
municipal purposes, shall be under the immediate care and supervision of the
Mayor, subject always to the control of the Council. The Mayor shall see that
the buildings are kept in good repair; that the insurance thereon is sufficient
to protect the town against loss by fire; that the buildings are kept clean,
the plumbing kept in good repair and the buildings are kept in sanitary
condition; that all public parks and grounds are kept in good condition; and
that the persons in charge of all such public parks and grounds faithfully
perform their respective duties concerning the same. He or she shall also see
that no public property is utilized for private purposes save only under proper
lease from the town authorities, and he or she shall see that rentals are
promptly collected for all public buildings and grounds under lease. The Mayor
shall make such recommendations to the Council in regard to the improvements or
protection of such buildings and grounds as to him or her shall seem best.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 61)
**** PARK REGULATIONS ****
§ 90.15 PUBLIC PARKING.
   All unpaved spaces of ground between the property line on any street or
public place, and the sidewalk abutting thereon or along the same, and all
unpaved spaces of ground between any such sidewalk and the curb are declared to
be public parking and shall be under the immediate control, care and keeping of
the owners or occupants of the premises abutting thereon, and such owner or
occupant shall be held responsible for seed or place sod on same, and they
shall carefully mow the grass whenever it has attained a height of six inches,
and shall, whenever necessary, keep same sprinkled, and shall see that there is
no accumulation of paper, trash or filth or dirt on said parking. Property
owners shall be permitted to plant flowers and shrubs in said parking wherever
the width of the parking will admit the same, and to put up such temporary wire
net fencing or other protection as may be approved by the Commissioner of
Streets for the protection of flowers, grass, shrubbery or flower seeds planted
in said parking. The Commissioner of Streets may also grant permits to said
abutting property owners to plant trees of approved kind in any of said parking
where, in his or her judgment, the parking is sufficiently wide to admit trees,
and they will not injure the street paving, sidewalks or sewers, but only such
trees as shall be approve d by the Commissioner of Streets shall be so planted.
No hedges exceeding 18 inches in height shall be allowed in any parking, and if
any hedge is planted in any parking, the same shall always be kept neatly
trimmed and vacant spaces replanted by the abutting property owner or occupant.
No parking shall be lowered below the grade of the sidewalk except by
permission of the Commissioner of Streets.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 1)
§ 90.16 IMPROVEMENT OF PARKS, SQUARES.
   The Council shall have power, whenever funds are appropriated for such
purposes, to sow grass seed, place sod, plant flowers and shrubbery and
otherwise beautify and park, parking, public squares or place and to provide
for the care of same.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 2)
§ 90.17 OFFENSES IN PUBLIC PARKS, SQUARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to girdle, break, drive
nails or other substances into or otherwise injure, kill or destroy any tree or
shrub, or to break, out, mutilate, injure, remove or carry away any tree,
shrub, plant, flower, stone or stonework, statuary, bench, chair, seat, bower,
stand, fountain, or part thereof, structure, fence or property or any thing
whatsoever in, upon or near any park, square, parking or place in the town; or,
without the consent of the owner, in any private yards or lot or park therein,
or any street or walk in or around the same, to molest any birds, bird’s nest
or any fish or animal or anything belonging to or kept therein, or to paste or
affix or inscribe, hand out or throw down any handbill, advertisement, poster,
card, device or inscription in any such park or parking, square or in any
highway or walk surrounding same, or upon any tree within the town, or
disfigure or disturb any sward, gravel, sand, turf or earth, or any tree, fence
or structure in any such park, parking or public square, or adjacent thereto,
or fasten or hitch any animal to any tree, fence or structure in or around the
same, or the streets surrounding the same; or to ride or drive any horse, cow,
mule, goat or any other animal or any automobile or vehicle of any kind in and
on the aforesaid parks, parking or public squares or places, except on the
proper roadways provided for the same.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY DECLARED PUBLIC PARKS.
   The grounds, lots, walks and unbuilt-upon spaces around or annexed to any of
the buildings or structures owned by the government of the United States, the
state, the county or the town, and all lots or parcels of land owned or leased
by any of the aforesaid governments or bodies politic within the town are
hereby declared to be public parks for the purposes of any offenses governed by
§
90.32.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 4)
§ 90.19 INJURING TREES.
   No person shall willfully break, pull, bend, hurt or destroy any trees or
enclosure around the same which are now or hereafter may be planted near the
curb or gutter of any streets of the town, or in any other public places within
the town.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.20 PUBLIC FOUNTAINS.
   The Council may authorize the owner of any property abutting on any public
street, square, park or public place to establish and maintain a drinking
fountain immediately in front of his or her property on the public ground,
humane societies and other like institutions may also be permitted to erect
fountains upon the public thoroughfares. Fountains in public parks, squares,
levees and other public grounds may be erected and maintained by any person or
society, at his, her or their expense, and under such rules and regulations as
may be prescribed by the Council. All plans for any fountains authorized by
this section shall be first submitted to and approved by the Mayor, and, upon
authorizing any person or society to establish and maintain a drinking fountain
or other fountain or other fountains, the Mayor shall require that the owner
will well and diligently look after the repairs of the fountain at his or her
expense, will provide the fountain with proper cut-offs, will take proper
precautions to prevent the fountains from flushing or causing ice or water to
accumulate on the sidewalk, and, in the event the owner desires to remove said
fountain or discontinue its use, he or she will remove the same at his or her
own expense and restore the street, sidewalk or ground to its original
condition before the establishment of said fountain. Fountains may also be
removed by the Mayor when, in his or her judgment, public service demands such
action.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 6)
§ 90.21 ENTERING PLAYGROUND AFTER HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an official, employee or
authorized agent of the town, a municipal corporation or of the County Board of
Education, to enter, for any purpose whatsoever, upon any playground operated
by the town, at any time other than during the hours established by the Parks
and Recreation Commission for the use thereof by the public.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 PARK RULES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The town park is tobacco-free, no tobacco use of any type is
permitted on the grounds.
      (2)   No alcohol, drugs or firearms allowed at any event, no exceptions.
      (3)   Abusive language and/or behavior may result in expulsion from the
park.
      (4)   Picnic tables must not be moved.
   (B)   Little League rules.
      (1)   Park should be left as found. It is the responsibility of the
League to ensure that all grounds are left clean, and that all trash is picked
up and placed in receptacles provided at the park.
      (2)   Use of park concession requires prior approval. The organization/
person using the concession stand is responsible for cleaning up and disposal
of all trash.
      (3)   Bathrooms are provided for public use during baseball season, the
cleaning and upkeep of the bathrooms are the responsibility of the Little
League.
      (4)   Locks of the doors and windows must not be changed without the
consent of the town. Please report any damages at the park to town personnel.
      (5)   Park lights and electronic scoreboard are provided by the town at
no cost to the Little League. The operation of the scoreboard must be by a
responsible individual to avoid damage to the electronic equipment.
      (6)   Throwing, passing outside of the playing field and designated warm
up areas is prohibited.
      (7)   No inning can be started after 9:15 p.m.; an inning started prior
to 9:15 p.m. may continue until completion of the inning.
      (8)   Little League will provide liability insurance naming the town as
additionally insured prior to beginning practices/games.
(Document adopted - -)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Deaths and burials
Environmental Sanitation
   
91.15   Sale of water
   
91.16   Trailers and mobile homes
   
91.17   Privies
   
91.18   Nuisances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 DEATHS AND BURIALS.
   There are hereby adopted all cemetery and burial provisions of the state
code and the regulations of the State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter V, Article 35, § 3)
Penalty, see §
91.99
**** ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION ****
§ 91.15 SALE OF WATER.
   (A)   Certificate of purity. No person or company, except the town municipal
waterworks, shall sell, or permit to be sold in the town, any water, water by-
products or such water in any form or nature whatsoever without first having a
certificate of the purity of such water or by-products from the Health
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, § 1)
   (B)   Inspection and permit. All persons who shall come under the provisions
of this section, shall be inspected by the Health Commissioner, or his or her
duly authorized agent, at least once each month, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to sell water or by-products of such water during any calendar month
without having first obtained a permit therefor from the Health Commissioner,
and such person shall keep upon his or her person or posted in a conspicuous
place in his or her place of business the permit therein provided for.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, § 2)
   (C)   Inspection or license fee. Each and every person falling within the
provisions of this section shall be required to pay, for each of the
inspections provided for, an inspection fee of $3, which inspection fee shall
be collected by the person making such inspection.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, § 3)
   (D)   Handling, disposition of fees. The Health Commissioner, or his or her
duly authorized agent, making inspection, shall deliver each week to the
Recorder a copy of each inspection report together with all fees collected
under this section, who shall dispose of the funds so collected in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, § 4)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Permit. No mobile home or trailer may be located within the corporate
limits of the town unless a permit so to do is first obtained, according to the
provisions of this section as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, § 1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME or TRAILER.
      (1)   A portable structure, a dwelling unit factory-built and assembled,
with or without its own motive power equipped for or used for living or
business purposes and mounted on wheels or designed to be mounted and
transported. The term MOBILE HOME shall include within its definition the terms
TRAILER and any other name of designation used in common parlance now or
hereafter and which refers to units of like or similar nature.
      (2)   The term MOBILE HOME shall not include a PREFABRICATED HOME or
MODULAR HOME which is defined as a new type of construction consisting of two
or more sections, each of which must be transported to the site separately. The
joint components cannot be moved as a single unit except in rare instances for
short-distance hauling. The heating, plumbing and electrical systems are pre-
installed and sub-structure siding may be applied after the modular home has
been located on its supports. When the characteristic of portability no longer
exists the structure is considered a standing dwelling. This section shall not
apply to a PREFABRICATED HOME or MODULAR HOME. “Campers” are not allowed to be
lived-in within city limits.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, § 2)
   (C)   Movement of mobile homes from one location to another.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to move a mobile home or trailer from one
location to another location within the boundaries of the town without first
obtaining a permit for the new location in compliance with the provisions of
this section.
      (2)   Once a mobile home or trailer has been moved from a location for
which a permit has been issued, no other mobile home or trailer may be placed
on the vacated site or lot without a new permit being issued.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, § 16)
   (D)   Use and location of trailers and/or mobile homes for residential
purposes within the corporate
limits of the town.
      (1)   Time prescribed for residential and business purposes. Any mobile
home which remains in place within the corporate limits of the town for a
period of ten consecutive days shall be presumed to be so located for
residential or business purposes and subject to the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Placement, location, replacement.
          (a)   No additional single-wide mobile homes will be permitted to be
placed or relocated within the town limits of the town except within one of the
two mobile home parks currently licensed by the town and the County Health
Department.
          (b)   A landowner that currently occupies a mobile home as his or her
primary residence situated on that self-owned property may apply for a variance
from this section to effect an upgrade of the mobile home or the conversion of
that mobile home to a traditional single-family home.
          (c)   This section does not preclude the placement of a town licensed
and inspected double-wide or triple-wide mobile home in residential sections of
town which will not be used for any purpose other than a primary place of
residence. Such mobile home must be placed on a permanent foundation of cinder
blocks or like material within 30 days of its delivery to the lot.
          (d)   The permit fee will be based on the building permit fee
currently in effect for renovations or new construction.
          (e)   The license fee for placement in a mobile home park will be
$150. This fee will offset the cost of the inspection required before a permit
can be issued.
          (f)   Acceptance of this section shall not supersede the existing
town ordinance for the inspection and licensing of mobile homes that may be
approved for placement in approved and licensed mobile home parks within the
town limits.
          (g)   Acceptance of this section will also amend the existing
ordinance to clarify that the definition of a mobile home does not include
recreational vehicles.
          (h)   Any more stringent codes adopted by the town will apply to this
division (Q).
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, § 17)
   (E)   Single-family dwelling units. All new single-family dwelling units
shall comply with the following design standards regardless of the zoning
district in which they are located.
      (1)   Roof pitch shall be a minimum of 3:12.
      (2)   Roof materials shall be of a type that is in compliance with the
State Building Code.
      (3)   Roof overhang or eves shall be designed for a minimum of six inches
as measured from the vertical side of the building and not including rain
gutters, which are required.
      (4)   The unit’s exterior finish shall be wood siding, vinyl siding,
composite siding (cement board), stone, brick or other material approved by the
State Building Code.
      (5)   A perimeter enclosure of stone or block is required for all single-
family dwelling units in accordance with the town code.
      (6)   No housing unit shall be less than 24 feet wide and not less than
500 square feet in total area.
      (7)   Additionally, for manufactured housing units, all tow bars, axles
and wheels shall be removed. The housing unit shall rest on a required center
support and meet tie down requirements per the State Building Code.
   (F)   Upgrades or improvements to housing units pre-dating adoption of
section. Placement of nonconforming housing units for the purpose of upgrading
or improvement of housing units that pre-existed the adoption of the 2006
ordinance codified in this section establishing standards for single-family
dwelling units.
      (1)   A replacement for an existing nonconforming housing unit (one that
pre-existed the 2006 ordinance), with a newer and clearly improved condition
nonconforming housing unit is allowed for the owner of record as recorded in
the tax records of the County Tax Assessor’s office. Verification of newer and
clearly improved shall be determined by the Zoning Enforcement Officer/Building
Inspector. His or her ruling may be appealed to the Town Council whose ruling
shall be final.
      (2)   Minimally, the replacement nonconforming unit must meet
requirements in divisions (S)(2), (S)(4), (S)(5) and (S)(7) above.
      (3)   The replacement unit must occupy the same footprint (land area) as
the unit being replaced. If the replacement or upgrade cannot meet this
requirement, it must then conform to all zoning and land use bulk regulations
for setback as defined in the town’s comprehensive land use guidelines.
      (4)   An application for variance for a nonconforming use permit must be
made for approval of this variance to the Town Zoning Enforcement Office. The
fee will be $150, and the application must provide documentation satisfactory
to the Zoning Enforcement Officer that the proposed unit meets all requirements
of this section.
   (G)   Temporary construction trailers. Temporary construction trailers will
be handled under the appropriate permitting process of the comprehensive land
use plan of the town.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2002; Ord. passed 2-2-2006; Ord. passed 3-1-2007; Ord. passed
11-6-2008; Ord. passed 4-2-2015) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PRIVIES.
   (A)   “Privy” defined; liability of owner for construction and maintenance.
For the purpose of this section, PRIVY shall mean any building used or intended
to be used for the reception of human fecal matter or urine, and which is not
connected with the sewer system or with any sewer connected with the sewer
system so as to remove immediately such material from such building. The owner
of the premises on which any such privy is situated shall be held liable for
its erection and maintenance in conformity to this section, and for the removal
of the contents thereof as may from time to time be necessary; and if such
owner cannot be found in the town, notice of any work required by this section
to be done specifying a reasonable time for the performance thereof, shall be
left with the agent of such premises, or if no such agent can be found in the
town, such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of such owner, and
it shall be unlawful if the work specified in the notice is not done within the
time allowed therein.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 1)
   (B)   Failure to connect with sewer. It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain any privy upon any lot or subdivisional lot, situated on any street in
the town, where there is any part of the sewerage system of the town, or any
sewer adjoining the lot or subdivisional lot, and not properly connected with
the sewerage system of the town, available for draining such privy.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 2)
   (C)   Privy permits. No person shall erect or maintain a privy, septic tank
or cesspool without having secured from the Health Commissioner a permit to do
so. These permits shall be issued to the conditions of this section, upon
written application, without cost, shall be numbered consecutively and shall
describe the location where each privy, septic tank or cesspool is to be
maintained.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 3)
   (D)   Order to reconstruct or connect with sewer. Whenever the Health
Commissioner of the opinion that any water closet is not properly connected
with the sewer system of the town, or when, in his or her opinion, the
condition of any vault, privy or water closet is such as to be dangerous to the
health of the citizens, he or she shall order the owner, lessee or agent of
said property on which is located such privy or water closet to construct or
properly reconstruct or properly connect said water closet with the sewer
system of the town, in accordance with this section, and it shall be unlawful
for any owner, lessee or agent of property receiving such order to fail to
comply with the same, and every day on which a violation of this order exists
as to any premises shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 4)
   (E)   Location. No privy shall be constructed or maintained in the town.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 5)
   (F)   Removal of contents. No part of the contents of any privy, septic tank
or cesspool shall be removed therefrom, nor shall the same be transported
through or over any of the streets of the town, unless the same shall be
removed or transported by means of airtight apparatus, or other process, so as
to prevent the contents from being agitated or exposed to the open air during
the process of such removal or transportation. The work shall be done by
competent scavengers who have a permit from the Health Commissioner. The
contents of such privies, septic tanks or cesspools, removed in conformity with
this section, shall be disposed of at the town sewage disposal plant.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 13)
   (G)   Required accommodations for dwellings or employees. Every building in
the town used for dwelling purposes, or where persons are employed or intended
to be employed in any trade or business, shall be provided with sufficient and
suitable privy or water closet accommodations, having regard to the number of
persons employed in or in attendance at such building; and also, where persons
of both sexes are employed or intended to be employed, or in attendance,
sufficient suitable and separate privy accommodations for persons of each sex
must be provided. It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent to put any person
in possession of any building, or any part thereof not provided with privy
accommodations as aforesaid, except a watchperson for the purpose of guarding
such building, or part thereof.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 14)
   (H)   Unlawful deposit of fecal matter. No person shall deposit any human
fecal matter in any place except in some properly constructed privy or water
closet, nor shall any person, having removed the contents for any pert thereof,
of any privy in the town, deposit it in any place other than the town sewage
disposal plant.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 15)
   (I)   Cleansing privies for hire. It shall be unlawful for any person other
than such as shall be authorized by the Health Commissioner to clean for pay
any privy, septic tank or cesspool in the town. This authority shall be granted
by the Health Commissioner upon application to any person who is properly
equipped as to apparatus or means of disposal for performing the work to be
done.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 16)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Boarding or lodging houses, rentals, Airbnb, or hotels/motels. Any
boarding house, lodging house or any building used for such purposes, or any
part thereof, within the limits of the town, which shall be leased, let or
rented, to be occupied by any person, in which to dwell or lodge, and which
boarding house lodging house or building, or any part thereof, is not
sufficiently lighted or ventilated, and provided with water and not kept in a
clean and sanitary manner, or in any part whereof the strength, ventilation,
light or sewerage is in any manner, shape or form, dangerous, insufficient or
prejudicial to life or health, or which shall not be provided with adequate and
properly constructed water closets, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 1)
   (B)   Material from yards, factories or stores as nuisance. Whenever there
shall be found in or upon any lot or piece of ground within the town any dirt
gathered in cleaning yards, waste of factories or any rags, damaged
merchandise, wet, broken or leaking barrels, casks or boxes, or any materials
which are offensive or tend to decay to become putrid, or to render the
atmosphere impure or unwholesome, the same shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 2)
   (C)   Keeping of certain animals. No person shall keep or permit to be kept
within the corporate limits any hog, goat, cow, horse, pony or other animal in
a pen or otherwise confined in any lot, nor any noisome or offensive substance
of any kind upon or about his or her premises, to the annoyance, detriment or
inconvenience of any neighbor or the public.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 3)
   (D)   Leakage of or moisture from water. Whenever in any cellar, basement or
part thereof, or any house or building within the town, there may be found
water occasioned by leakage from defective hydrants, water pipes, sewer pipes,
cisterns, wells, gutters, drains, running spouts or seepage from the
surrounding earth, or whenever the walls of any cellar or basement shall be
found to be damp or moist from any cause named in this section, then such
water, leakage, seepage or moisture shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 5)
   (E)   Production of noisome stenches and odors or noxious gases. The boiling
of offal, swill, bones, fat, tallow or lard; the crushing, grinding or burning
of bones or shells; cleansing guts; making glue from any dead animal or part
thereof; making or boiling varnish or oil; making lampblack, turpentine or tar;
storing or keeping scraps, fat, grease or other offensive animal matter;
rendering or frying out dead, undressed and unslaughtered animals, or any other
business or, trade, whereby noisome stenches and odors and noxious gases arise
or are generated, within the town, are declared nuisances injurious to health,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause, erect, create, maintain or
continue any such nuisance, and to fail, after due notice from the Health
Commissioner or Board, to abate the same.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 6)
   (F)   Unclean, defective drainpipes, tanks, gutters or cans. Any unclean,
stinking, foul, defective or filthy drainpipes, tank or gutter, or any leaking,
broken slop, garbage or manure boxes, or receptacle of like character whenever
or wherever found within the limits of the town, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 7)
   (G)   Pools or discharge of offensive water or refuse. Any lot or piece of
ground within the town on which there is a pond or pool of unwholesome, impure
or offensive water shall be deemed a nuisance. Whenever from any brewery, hide
house, laundry or any part of a dwelling, store or factory, or any yard or
enclosure whatsoever within the town there is a discharge into or on any
street, sidewalk, gutter or any vacant lot, of offensive water, liquid waste or
refuse of any kind which is liable to become so, the same shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 8)
   (H)   Ponds or collection of offensive water. Whenever one or more citizens
in the town living in the immediate vicinity of any pond of putrid or stagnant
water shall notify the Health Commissioner that said pond is a nuisance by
being dangerous to life or detrimental to the health of the neighborhood in
which it is situated, or when the Health Commissioner shall be notified by the
police of the existence of any pond or unwholesome, impure or offensive water,
he or she shall notify the owner, agent, lessee or occupant of the ground upon
which the pond is situated, to show good cause before the Board of Health, at
the time and place to be specified in the notice, why the pond should not be
abated by filling or draining and the cause of the nuisance removed, which
notice of the Health Commissioner shall not be valid unless served at least
five days before the time specified in such notice, and such notice shall be
served in the same manner as writs of summons are required to be served in
civil cases. If, after careful inquiry into the same, the Board of Health shall
decide that the pond is a nuisance and dangerous to life, or detrimental or
injurious to the health of the neighborhood, the Board shall condemn the same
as a nuisance, and the Health Commissioner shall order the abatement of the
same, either by filling or draining. If the owner, agent, lessee or occupant to
whom such order has been issued shall refuse or neglect to comply with the same
within the time indicated in said order or notice and fail to abate said
nuisance, then said owner, agent, lessee or occupant, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to the penalty provided in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 9)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever fails to comply with any lawful order of the Board of Healthor
fails to show good cause why he or she cannot comply with such order, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100; provided, however, that on the trial of the party charged with the
Commission of such offense, he or she shall have the right in defense to
contest the existence of the facts alleged to be a nuisance. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter I, Article 3, § 99)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
91.01(C) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $1 nor
more than $5.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter V, Article 35, § 99)
   (D)   Any person who locates a mobile home within the corporate limits
without a permit so to do, or otherwise violates §
91.16, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon complaint of such violation,
notice thereof shall be given to the person or persons so accused, which notice
may be served by the Health Commissioner or any town police officer. Upon due
hearing thereon, any person found guilty in violating §
91.16 shall be subject to a fine of $10 per day for each day the offense
continues after the notice has been served upon the person or persons accused
of such violation.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, § 99)
   (E)   Whoever violates §
91.17 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding
$50. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, § 99)
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
91.18 excepting §
91.18(H) shall be subject to the procedure for the abatement of nuisances
      (2)   Whoever violates §
91.18(H) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $5 nor more than $200. Each day after the time specified in the order or
notice of the Health Commissioner during which the nuisance shall be maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, § 99)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Backyard Chickens
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Applicability
   
92.03   Standards
   
92.04   Enforcement
Dogs
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Application for license; tag
   
92.17   License fee; expiration of license
   
92.18   Impounding dogs
   
92.19   Retention and disposition of impounded dogs; notice to owner
   
92.20   Interference with persons acting under article; offenses concerning
tags
   
92.21   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
92.22   Seizing or enticing dog; bringing dog into town for impounding or
killing
   
92.23   Dogs on leash
   
92.24   Keeping vicious dog
   
92.25   Muzzling dogs under proclamation by Mayor
   
92.26   Keeping noisy dog or cat
   
92.27   Inducing dogs to fight, annoy persons or animals or kill rats
   
92.28   Observation of dog biting a person
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals, see W. Va. Code § 61-8-19
   Disposing of dead animals, see W. Va. Code § 16-9-3
**** BACKYARD CHICKENS ****
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter to is allow the keeping of chickens within
residential neighborhoods while limiting the intensity and potential impact on
neighboring properties.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2023)
§ 92.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the keeping of chickens as
an accessory use to a residential detached dwelling on properties located in
the residential zoning districts.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2023)
§ 92.03 STANDARDS.
   (A)   General conditions for the keeping of chickens in permitted zones.
      (1)   Up to four chickens may be kept within an occupied detached
dwelling property located in the permitted zoning district. Chickens may not be
kept on attached dwelling properties or within mobile home parks.
      (2)   Chickens shall be kept within a chicken coop or a chicken run
connected thereto at all times.
      (3)   Ducks, geese, turkeys, peafowl, adult male chickens/roosters or any
other poultry or fowl are not allowed under the provisions of this section.
      (4)   Chickens shall be kept for personal use only. Selling chickens,
eggs or chicken manure, or the breeding of chickens for commercial purposes is
prohibited.
      (5)   Chickens shall not be slaughtered on premises.
   (B)   Location and requirements for chicken coops and chicken runs in the
permitted zone.
      (1)   A chicken coop and a connected chicken run are both required for
the keeping of chickens pursuant to this section.
      (2)   The chicken coop shall be covered and ventilated. The chicken coop
and chicken run must be completely secured from predators, including all
openings, ventilation holes, doors and gates (fencing or roofing is required
over the chicken run in addition to the chicken coop, in order to protect the
chickens from predators).
      (3)   Any chicken coop and chicken run must be located in the rear yard
of a property unless the property is a corner lot. For corner lots, a chicken
coop must be located in the side yard of a property.
      (4)   The chicken coop and chicken run shall comply with the district’s
accessory structure setbacks.
      (5)   The chicken coop and chicken run must be screened from public view,
using an opaque fence or a landscape screen.
      (6)   All stored feed must be kept in a rodent and predator-proof
container.
      (7)   The chicken coop shall provide a minimum of four square feet per
chicken so that the chicken coop is of sufficient size to permit free movement
of the chickens. The chicken coop shall comply with the accessory structure
height requirements and must be accessible for cleaning and maintenance.
   (C)   Health, sanitation and nuisance as applied to the keeping of chickens
in the permitted zoning districts.
      (1)   No person shall release or set any chicken free from any chicken
coop or chicken run.
      (2)   Chicken coops and chicken runs shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times. All manure not used for composting or
fertilizer shall be promptly removed. Chickens shall not be permitted to create
a nuisance consisting of odor, noise or pests, or contribute to any other
nuisance condition.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In a public health emergency declared by the County Health Department,
including, but not limited to, an outbreak of Avian Flu or West Nile virus, the
county or town may require immediate corrective action in accordance with
applicable public health regulations and procedures.
   (B)   No person convicted as a repeat violator of this subchapter may be
permitted to, or continue to, keep chickens on his, her or their premises.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   The term DOG shall mean dogs of either sex at least three months old, unless
otherwise specified.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; TAG.
   Every person owning or harboring a dog in the town shall apply to the
collector for a license for each dog so owned or harbored, and at the time of
application shall present and file with the collector information whether the
dog is a male or female. After the payment of the fee set forth in §
92.17, the collector shall issue to such person a license and a copy of this
subchapter, together with an official tag, which tag shall be fastened to the
collar of the dog so licensed. In the event of a dog’s being acquired, a
license shall be obtained as aforesaid immediately after the date of acquiring
the animal.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.17 LICENSE FEE; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   The fee for obtaining a dog license shall be $3 for each dog. The license
shall expire July 1 following the date of issue, provided the license fee
mentioned shall not apply to dogs in a licensed kennel or veterinary hospital.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.18 IMPOUNDING DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Humane Officer or person appointed by the
Mayor to cause to be seized and impounded any dog at large in the town, whether
licensed or unlicensed. Any dog so seized shall be impounded at the county dog
pound unless and until the Mayor shall designate a different shelter.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.19 RETENTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Any dog seized and impounded as provided in §
92.18 bearing a tag as provided in §
92.16 shall be detained for a period of five days, and any dog so seized and
imposed not bearing a tag as provided in §
92.16 shall be detained for a period of three days, and if not claimed or
redeemed by the owner or by the person harboring said dog within the period
applicable, shall be disposed of in such manner and by such person as the Board
of Health names and designates; provided, that whenever the name of any person
appears on the collar of any dog seized, or any dog so seized, bears a tag as
provided in §
92.16 such person or owner shall forthwith be notified of such seizure in
writing by post card addressed to him and deposited in the United States mail.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.20 INTERFERENCE WITH PERSONS ACTING UNDER ARTICLE; OFFENSES CONCERNING
TAGS.
   No person shall hinder, molest or interfere with any person authorized or
empowered to perform any duty under this article, nor shall any person attach a
license tag to any dog to which it was not issued, or remove a license tag from
the collar of any dog without the consent of its owner.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   The owner of dog bearing a tag as provided in §
92.16, which has been seized or impounded, as provided in §
92.18, shall be entitled to redeem the dog by paying to the collector pursuant
to statement furnished such owner by the officer in charge of the dog a
redemption fee of $2.50, plus $0.50 for each day, or fraction thereof, that the
dog has been impounded.
   (B)   The owner of, or person harboring a dog not bearing a tag as provided
in §
91.16, which has been seized or impounded, as provided in §
92.18, shall be entitled to redeem said dog upon establishing his or her title
thereto to the satisfaction of the officer in charge of the dog, by securing a
license for said dog as provided in §§
92.16 and
92.17 (if not previously secured) and by paying to the collector pursuant to a
statement furnished such owner or person by the officer in charge of the dog a
redemption fee of $5, plus $0.50, for each day, or fraction thereof, that the
dog has been impounded.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.22 SEIZING OR ENTICING DOG; BRINGING DOG INTO TOWN FOR IMPOUNDING OR
KILLING.
   No person shall entice any properly licensed dog into any enclosure for the
purpose of taking off its collar or tag, or for such purpose, decoy or entice
any dog out of the enclosure or house of its owner or possessor, or seize or
molest any dog while held or led by another person, or bring any dog into the
town for the purpose of impounding and killing the same.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 DOGS ON LEASH.
   No person shall take any dog onto the streets or sidewalks of the town,
unless the same shall be upon a leash.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 KEEPING VICIOUS DOG.
   No person shalt own, keep or harbor any dog, known by him or her to be
vicious, dangerous or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, whether or
not such dog wears a tag or muzzle, and, upon satisfactory proof that such dog
is vicious, dangerous or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, the Chief
of Police or any other police officer may cause such dog to be killed.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 MUZZLING DOGS UNDER PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR.
   Whenever it shall be made to appear to the Mayor that there are good reasons
for believing that any dog within the town is mad, he or she may issue a
proclamation requiring that all dogs shall, for a period to be defined in the
proclamation, wear good, substantial muzzles, securely put on, so as to prevent
them from biting or snapping, and any dog going at large, during the period
defined by the Mayor, without such muzzle, shall be taken by the County Pound
Master and impounded, as provided herein.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 KEEPING NOISY DOG OR CAT.
   No person shall own or keep within the town any animal of the dog kind, or
cat, which shall, by barking, howling, squalling, crying or in any other manner
whatsoever, disturb the comfort or quiet of any neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 INDUCING DOGS TO FIGHT, ANNOY PERSONS OR ANIMALS OR KILL RATS.
   No person shall entice, induce, urge or cause any dogs to engage in or
prolong a fight in any street, open space or public square in the town, and no
person shall induce or cause any animal of the dog kind to run after, bark at,
frighten or bite any person, horse, cows, cattle of any kind, or other animals
lawfully passing along or standing in or on any street in the town, or to kill
rats or other animals in the streets and public places in the town.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 OBSERVATION OF DOG BITING A PERSON.
   Every person owning or harboring a dog in the town, whether licensed or
unlicensed, which shall bite any person shall forthwith place the dog at his or
her expense in the custody and care of a licensed veterinarian for a period of
ten days for observation.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
92.15 through
92.28 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$5, nor more than $100. Each day any violation of §§
92.15 through
92.28 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1950)
CHAPTER 93: HAZARD MITIGATION
Section
   
93.01   State hazard plan adopted
§ 93.01 STATE HAZARD PLAN ADOPTED.
   The State Region 4 PDC 2022 Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as the
official Hazard Mitigation Plan of Town of Ansted, and the respective officials
and agencies identified in the implementation strategy of the State Region 4
PDC 2022 Hazard Mitigation Plan are hereby directed to implement the
recommended activities assigned to them.
(Res. passed 10-6-2022)
CHAPTER 94: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Administration
   
94.01   Town authority to abate nuisances
Tall Grass, Weeds and Filth
   
94.15   Title
   
94.16   Purpose
   
94.17   Definitions
   
94.18   Land subject to regulations
   
94.19   Duty to cut grass
   
94.20   Unlawful acts
   
94.21   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Reward of destruction of weeds, see W. Va. Code § 7-4-2
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 94.01 TOWN AUTHORITY TO ABATE NUISANCES.
   The town may, after due notice and providing the right to a hearing in the
matter, repair, alter, demolish, mow overgrown grass, collect trash or rubbish,
and without County Court approval, place a lien on the subject property for the
amount expended by the town in taking said action.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2021)
**** TALL GRASS, WEEDS AND FILTH ****
§ 94.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Tall Grass, Weed and Filth
Ordinance, and shall be applicable and in full force and effect year-round.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
§ 94.16 PURPOSE.
   The town hereby finds that unsightly tall grass and weeds growing in
unsuitable areas can have a blighting effect on neighborhoods and can provide a
refuge for vermin and insects. The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate
the height of grass and weeds in certain areas of the town in which there is a
higher population density, while still maintaining and preserving the town’s
woodlands.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
§ 94.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRASS. Any type of grass or weed, but not including crops grown as a source
of income, including, but not limited to, corn, oats or barley.
   LAND USED FOR AGRICULTURE. The use of land for tilling of the soil, the
raising of field or tree crops or animal husbandry, as a source of income.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has the right to occupy a parcel of property due to
being an owner or pursuant to a verbal or written lease or rental agreement
with the owner or agent thereof.
   OWNER. Any person holding an ownership interest in land in the town upon
which there is tall grass growing. For the purposes of this subchapter, the
name and address listed on the town tax assessment roll shall indicate
ownership interest in such land.
   WEEDS. Includes Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders (any species of
Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssurn
(Berteroaincana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior), Japanese knotweed
(fallopianjaponica), poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron), poison sumac
(toxicodendron vernix), garlic mustard (alliaria petiolata), spotted knapweed
(centaurea maculosa), phragmites (phragmites australis) and/or any other plant
which is, in the opinion of the Town Council, including grass over 12 inches in
height, other than that which is part of a vegetable or flower garden. WEEDS
shall be regarded as a common nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
§ 94.18 LAND SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to the following:
      (1)   Lots in a platted subdivision with a structure;
      (2)   Vacant lots within platted residential subdivisions in which
buildings have been erected upon 60% or more of the lots; and
      (3)   Parcels of land which have a tree lawn and/or which border improved
public streets or rights-of-way.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to:
      (1)   Land used for agricultural purposes, including weeds in fields,
devoted to growing any small grain crops such as wheat, oats, barley or rye;
      (2)   Portions of lots used for flower gardens, shrubbery or vegetable
gardens;
      (3)   Naturally wooded areas; and
      (4)   Areas designated as parks by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
§ 94.19 DUTY TO CUT GRASS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, an owner and/or
occupant who owns or otherwise has occupancy rights for property in the town is
responsible for cutting, destroying and removing or causing to be cut,
destroyed or removed from the land all noxious and poisonous weeds growing
thereon, as well as dead grass and brush thereon, to prevent such weeds from
going to seed or blossom, as the case may be, to prevent grass from growing in
excess of ten inches in height, except for dune grass; and preventing such dead
grass and brush from becoming a fire hazard.
   (B)   The duties imposed in this section extend to the tree lawn, which
includes any portions of the abutting public right-of way that would become
part of the property if the right-of-way were vacated, except for any roadway
which is paved for vehicular traffic.
   (C)   In addition to the property owner or occupant, the manager of a
business on a property, meaning the person that exercises the most control over
the day-to-day operations of the business, shall also be responsible parties
subject to the duties imposed in this section.
   (D)   On an undeveloped or vacant lot, tall grass and weeds must be cut back
at a distance of at least 20 feet from the roadway by the owner and/or
occupants so as to allow a clear line of site for drivers, and the owner and/or
operator shall also cut grass and weeds back at least 20 feet on each lot line
where such property abuts any residential property. The 20 feet which abuts a
public street for purposes of this section shall begin at the curb or, if none
exists, at the edge of the paved roadway nearest to the property. If a property
under this section abuts a residential property on the rear or side of the
property, the 20 feet shall start at the lot line.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
§ 94.20 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of any lot or
parcel of land to which this subchapter applies to allow or maintain upon any
portion of such lot or parcel any growth of tall grass or weeds as defined
herein, or to permit the deposit or accumulation upon any portion of such lot
or parcel of land, of any brush or filth, yard debris, dead vegetation or cut
grass or weeds so as to create a nuisance due to unsightliness, an unhealthy or
unsafe condition, or traffic hazard, or fire hazard. Growth of grass to a
length greater than ten inches shall be considered to be a nuisance for the
purposes of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit natural
composting when such composting is done in an appropriate area of the property,
which shall not include the front yard. It shall be unlawful for the owner and/
or occupant of any lot or parcel of land to which this subchapter applies to
place, throw, sweep or otherwise deposit any yard waste material of any kind on
any alley, street, gutter, sidewalk or utility right-of-way in the town.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer. This subchapter shall be enforced by the Town
Police Department and/or the town’s designated Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Code Enforcement Officer and his or her authorized
representatives are hereby empowered to enter upon any premises or land in the
town for the purpose of inspecting, removing of and/or destroying tall grass
and weeds prohibited under this subchapter. No person shall interfere with such
person or persons while they are engaged in carrying out the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Violation notice. After inspection, if any property is determined to
be in violation of this subchapter, a violation notice will be sent to the
property owner and/or occupant of said premises in which the name appears in
the last local assessment record of the town. The notice shall be sent by both
first class and by posting a copy of said notice on the property. The notice
shall give the property owner ten days from the date of the notice to cut the
tall grass and weeds. A second or subsequent violation notice sent within the
season aforementioned shall cause owner/occupant to be assessed a fine of $25
per notice.
   (D)   Subject to lien. If assigned penalties are not paid, and/or if the
town incurs cost of removal and the landowner fails to pay such costs within
one month, or within a period agreed upon by the Municipal Judge for such
repairs or removal to be completed, the Clerk will file a lien on the property,
the cost of which will include all penalties, fines and a $25 charge for filing
the lien. The total assessment shall bear interest at 6% per year from the date
of recordation until paid. Such lien to be filed with the Clerk of the County
Commission. A statement of costs shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk
of the County Court in the same manner as any other against real estate, and
the town may enforce the lien by appropriate legal action against the property.
   (E)   Remedial measures. If the tall grass and weeds are not cut within ten
days, the town shall have the authority to enter upon the land and/or to cause
the grass and weeds to be mowed by an authorized representative who is hereby
empowered to enter upon any premises or land in the town for the purpose of
mowing tall grass and weeds in violation of this subchapter, even if the
property owner and/or occupant failed to actually receive said notice. The
town, its agents and representatives shall not be responsible for damage to
buildings, vehicles, landscape, trees, shrubs and the like during the mowing of
property in violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   Assessment of costs. All expenses of such cutting, to include
equipment usage, transportation, man hours involved and overhead, including any
and all cost incurred in the removal or relocation of debris, junk or other
miscellaneous obstructions which would be necessary or convenient to carry out
the requirements of this subchapter shall be paid by the owners of such land
plus an administrative charge of 15% thereof, per residential parcel, per
cutting. After having a lot mowed, the town shall then submit a bill to the
property owner for the cost of the mowing. If the property owner does not pay
the bill within 30 days of the date of the invoice, the cost of such payment
shall be charged against the premises, and it shall become a lien on the land,
plus an additional delinquency fee of 10% per month until paid.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §§
94.15 through
94.21 shall be subject to payment of a fine of not less than $25 plus
applicable costs and other sanctions for each violation.
      (2)   Repeat offenses under §§
94.15 through
94.21 shall be subject to increased fines as provided by this section. For the
purpose of this penalty section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) violation of the same requirement or provision of §§
94.15 through
94.21 within any one-year period for which the person admits responsibility or
is determined to be responsible. The increased fine for a repeat offense under
§§
94.15 through
94.21 shall be as follows.
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $125 plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense shall
be not less than $250 plus costs.
         (c)   The fine for any offense which is a third repeat or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $400 each plus costs.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of §§
94.15 through
94.21 occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense subject to separate
sanctions.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2022)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Participation in Federal Community Development Program; pledge to
support fair housing practices
§ 95.01 PARTICIPATION IN FEDERAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM; PLEDGE TO
SUPPORT FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES.
   (A)   By participating in the Federal Community Development Program, the
town has pledged to ensure and support fair housing practices accordingly.
   (B)   It is hereby resolved that the town is taking formal action to prevent
discrimination in the sale, rental and financing of housing. The town is an
equal opportunity employer and takes steps in affirmatively further fair
housing in all public notices, ads and publications.
      (1)   The Mayor of the town shall provide all appropriate advice and
counsel on home loan financing to minorities and lower income families and
individuals.
      (2)   Said Mayor will provide further advice to lower-income and minority
families and individuals with regard to federal programs that may be available
for the rental or financing of housing. The Mayor or his or her designated
staff shall be available for such counseling by appointment.
      (3)   The Mayor shall advise the public that any complaints of
discrimination in the sale, rental or financing of housing should be reported
directly to him or her and he or she in turn will forward this information to
the proper local, state and federal authorities. Furthermore, he or she shall
notify the local realtors that he or she has been given this responsibility.
(Res. passed 4-19-2024)
CHAPTER 96: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Applicability; scope
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Application process
   
96.05   Fees
   
96.06   Conflicts with county provisions
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the establishment of a
well-defined process through which persons wishing to sponsor, promote and hold
special events and mass gatherings for commercial purposes can be authorized
and permitted to do so; provided, that such events have been properly planned
and organized in a manner that is consistent with the public interest and
safety of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   The goals of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Establish a well-defined application process for the permitting of
special events and mass gatherings held for commercial purposes within the
municipality;
      (2)   Encourage responsible planning prior to the holding of special
events and mass gatherings held for commercial purposes within the
municipality;
      (3)   Provide adequate protection to citizens and property owners who may
be adversely effected by such special events and mass gatherings held for
commercial purposes; and
      (4)   Recognize the value of such special events and mass gatherings for
commercial purposes as it relates to the positive promotion of commerce and
tourism within the municipality; provided, that such special events and mass
gatherings are properly planned and organized.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
§ 96.02 APPLICABILITY; SCOPE.
   (A)   Event location. The requirements set forth in this chapter shall only
apply to those special events and mass gatherings where the proposed event or
mass gathering sites are located inside of the incorporated boundaries of the
municipality.
   (B)   Nonconforming use. The requirements set forth in this chapter shall
only apply to special events and mass gatherings held at locations where the
use of the site properties for this purpose would constitute nonconforming uses
under conditions for which the property locations are currently zoned. Any
special event or mass gathering held for commercial purposes at a site location
where such commercial activities would be a permitted use under the conditions
for which the property area is currently zoned shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Commercial purposes. The requirements set forth in this chapter shall
only apply to special events and mass gatherings held for commercial profit-
making purposes. For the purpose of this chapter, the charging of admission to
the event or mass gathering shall be held as evidence of the fact that the
event or mass gathering is being held for commercial profit-making purposes.
   (D)   Excluded activities. The requirements set forth in this chapter are
not deemed to be applicable to certain community events and activities.
Specifically excluded from the requirements of this chapter are any government
sponsored events or gatherings, athletic contests, family or community
reunions, religious services, political rallies or any other noncommercial
events. In all instances, the Town Board of Zoning Appeals shall be permitted
to exercise discretionary judgment concerning those events and mass gatherings
that ale to be included within the scope and requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Included activities. The requirements set forth in this chapter shall
apply to special events or mass gatherings held for commercial profit-making
purposes at site locations within the incorporated areas of the town where such
activities would constitute a nonconforming use for which the property area is
currently zoned. Specifically included under the regulatory requirements of
this chapter are musical concerts, festival gatherings and other events held
for commercial profit-making purposes.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS. Includes all applicable provisions of the
General Sanitation Rules, Title 64, State Bureau for Public Health, Series 18,
effective date August 12, 2013, 64 W.V. C.S.R. Series 18-1 et seq.
   MASS GATHERINGS. Any group of 205 or more persons assembled together for a
meeting, festival, social gathering, concert or other similar propose. The term
shall not include assembly in any permanent buildings or permanent structures
designated, equipped and intended for use by large numbers of people. For the
purposes of this definition “equipped” mean supplied with adequate sanitary
facilities for the intended use.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any concert, festival or similar gathering held in an
incorporated area within the municipality where the holding of the event at
that location would constitute a nonconforming use for which the property is
currently zoned. For the purpose of this chapter, this definition shall not
apply to any assemblage of persons excluded from the regulatory scope and
application as previously defined in §
96.02.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
§ 96.04 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Application form. Any applicant seeking to organize, sponsor and hold
a special event or mass gathering within the definition of this chapter shall
be required to tender an application in the form and manner prescribed by the
Town Board of Zoning Appeals. For this purpose, the application attached to the
ordinance codified in this chapter for special events permit is hereby adopted
as the form and manner of this application, which may be amended from time-to-
time by said Board of Zoning Appeals. All applications submitted for review and
consideration shall be properly notarized verifying that the information
contained in the application is true and correct.
   (B)   Receipt and processing of application. All applications submitted for
review and consideration by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be processed in
the same manner as provided for in the processing of applications for zoning
variances and exceptions. After public notice and hearing, as provided for in
the zoning ordinances of the town, the Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize
the issuance of a special permit for the conduct of an event or mass gathering
as defined by this chapter. Such special permits, however, may be authorized by
the Board of Zoning Appeals only upon satisfaction in each instance as to the
general fitness of the use to its proposed location. In all instances, the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider the health, comfort and convenience of
the general public and the preservation of the general character of the
neighborhood or area in which such uses are to be conducted.
   (C)   Notice and public hearing requirements. Upon the receipt of an
application for the issuance of a special use permit under the provisions of
this chapter, the Town Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for
the holding of a public hearing related to the issuance of any permit. At least
30 days prior to the date set for hearing the Board shall publish a notice of
the date, time and place of the hearing. This notice shall be given as a Class
1 legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-3-
2. The publication area for any such publication shall be the county. In
addition to this publication requirement, the Zoning Officer shall ensure that
written notification is given to all adjoining property owners of the date,
time and location of the public hearing to be held for considering the issuance
of this special use permit. At a public hearing held concerning the issuance of
a special use permit under the provisions of this chapter, any party may appear
in person by agent or by attorney for purposes of offering comment or objection
to the issuance of any permit. Upon the conclusion of any such public hearing,
the Board of Zoning Appeals shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, render
a decision on whether to provide for the issuance of this special use permit.
However, following any public hearing held pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may require the applicant to file such
additional information as may be required prior to the issuance of any permit.
   (D)   Judicial review. Any decision rendered or order issued by the Board of
Zoning Appeals related to the issuance or nonissuance of any special use permit
authorized under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to judicial
review by certiorari in the manner authorized by W. Va. Code §§ 8A-9-1 et seq.
   (E)   Duration of permit. Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be good only for the period of time specified as the duration of the special
event or mass gathering documented in the application. Reoccurring events
proposed to be held at the same location will require the submission of
separate applications for each such event or gathering proposed.
   (F)   Validation of application. Upon the receipt of any application for a
permit to hold a special event or mass gathering under the requirements of this
chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall act to validate the information set
forth in each application. For this purpose, the Board may request the
assistance of the Chief of Police and/or the County Sheriff in validating the
content of each application through investigating the same to be true.
   (G)   Conditions of permits issued. The information and representations set
forth in the application for special events permits shall constitute the
standards of performance and conditions upon which the special permit may be
issued.
   (H)   Applicability of other standards. All applicants who are issued
permits to hold special events or mass gatherings pursuant to the requirements
of this chapter will be responsible for fully complying with any and all other
regulatory requirements established by the Division of Health, State Department
of Health and Human Resources, the State Tax Division, Department of Tax and
Revenue and any other regulatory agency that may have standards governing the
holding of special events and mass gatherings.
   (I)   Monitoring and enforcement of event standards and performance. All
applicants who are issued permits to hold special events or mass gatherings
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter shall be responsible for
conducting the event in a manner that is consistent with the representations
set forth in the application. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall receive and
document any complaints received concerning the manner in which the event was
organized and held. The Board may request the assistance of the Chief of Police
and/or the County Sheriff in monitoring any such events and gatherings. In
requesting the assistance of the Chief of Police and/or the Sheriff the Board
of Zoning Appeals may further empower the Chief of Police and/or the Sheriff to
order the immediate termination of any event that may be operated in a manner
that is inconsistent with the conditions specified in the special permit.
   (J)   General liability insurance required.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter to
any applicant who does not intend to obtain general liability insurance
coverage in an amount sufficient to indemnify the applicant against loss
claims. For purposes of this chapter, the minimum amount of liability insurance
coverage shall be $1,000,000. Depending upon the size and nature of the event,
the Board of Zoning Appeals may establish an amount in excess of this minimum
coverage specified by this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant shall further ensure that the town, the Mayor and
Council, the Town Board of Zoning Appeals, the Town Police Department and the
County Sheriff’s Department are named as additional insured parties for all
losses resulting from the special event or mass gatherings.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
§ 96.05 FEES.
   The following fees are authorized for applications processed and permits
issued under the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Application fee. Upon the filing of an application for special events
permit with the Zoning Administrator, a nonrefundable application fee in the
amount of $500 shall be due. No application shall be received or processed
until such time as this application fee is paid in full. This application fee
shall be applied to offset and defer those direct expenses involved in
validating and processing the application for consideration by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Permit fee. Following the receipt, processing and approval of any use
permit to be issued under the provisions of this chapter, and prior to the
issuance of any permit, the applicant shall pay a permit fee based on the
following fee schedule.
 
Estimated Event Size                        Permit Fee
Less than 500 persons                       $250
More than 500 but less than 1,500 persons   $500
More than 1,500 but less than 2,500 persons $750
More than 2,500 persons                     $1,000
 
   (C)   No other fees authorized. Other than the application and permit fees
expressly authorized by this chapter, no other fees, charges or permits
described in the zoning ordinances for the town shall be imposed or collected
for the issuance of any permit authorized under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
§ 96.06 CONFLICTS WITH COUNTY PROVISIONS.
   This chapter for special events and mass gatherings is an addendum to the
town zoning ordinances. As such, if any conflicts between this chapter and any
other sections of the zoning ordinances for the county arise, the provisions of
this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING GENERALLY
      
111.   VAPE/SMOKE SHOPS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING GENERALLY
Section
Administration and Enforcement
   
110.001   Definitions
   
110.002   License taxes levied
   
110.003   License application and issuance; evidence; fee
   
110.004   Conditions precedent to doing business
   
110.005   Licensing not to legalize any act
   
110.006   License period; minimum fee
   
110.007   Exhibition of licenses
   
110.008   License a personal privilege
   
110.009   Effect of change in partners or name
   
110.010   Collection by distraint
   
110.011   Percentage penalties when business transacted without license
   
110.012   Collection of back taxes
   
110.013   Collection by action or suit
   
110.014   Duties of Recorder or designee
   
110.015   Interpretation of preceding sections
Specific Businesses
   
110.030   Bowling alleys; billiard, pool and bagatelle tables
   
110.031   Circuses, carnivals and shows
   
110.032   Collection agencies
   
110.033   Employment agents; license fees
   
110.034   Hawkers and peddlers
   
110.035   Hotels, tourist homes and eating places
   
110.036   Hotel and motel tax
   
110.037   Slot machines and automatic devices
   
110.038   Taxicab stands
   
110.039   Theaters and performances
   
110.040   Trading stamps
Regulation of Other Businesses and Professions
   
110.055   Auctions and auctioneers
   
110.056   Sales and special sales
   
110.057   Solicitation of funds
   
110.058   Stores
Business and Occupation Tax
   
110.070   Business and occupation tax rates
   
110.071   Definitions
   
110.072   Imposition of privilege
   
110.073   Exemptions
   
110.074   Computation of tax; payment
   
110.075   Return and remittance by taxpayer
   
110.076   Erroneous computation
   
110.077   Assessment of tax when insufficiently returned
   
110.078   Appeal
   
110.079   Tax year
   
110.080   Tax cumulative
   
110.081   Payment; penalty for nonpayment
   
110.082   Tax a debt; lien of unpaid tax; recordation of lien
   
110.083   Collection by action or suit; injunction
   
110.084   Payment when person sells out or quits business; lien; liability of
successor
   
110.085   Prerequisite to final settlement
   
110.086   Priority in distribution in receivership; personal liability of
administrator
   
110.087   Certificate to Clerk of County Commission of assessment of taxes
   
110.088   Collection by distraint; report of collection
   
110.089   Administration of article by Town Treasurer through its appointive
officers
 
   
110.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal licensing power, see W. Va. Code § 8-4-10
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 110.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The recorder of Ansted, West Virginia.
   PERSON. Includes natural persons, partnerships, associations, corporations
and all other organizations or groups by means of which any of the hereinafter
specified businesses, activities, trades or employments are engaged in or
prosecuted.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 1)
§ 110.002 LICENSE TAXES LEVIED.
   No person shall, without a license, engage in or prosecute, within the town,
any of the businesses, activities, trades or employments named in the following
sections of this chapter. The license taxes hereinafter specified are hereby
levied on every person engaging in or prosecuting, within the town, any such
businesses, activities, trades or employments.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.003 LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE; EVIDENCE; FEE.
   (A)   The licenses provided for in this chapter shall be issued in the form
of a certificate by the Recorder to any person making proper application
therefor on forms to be prescribed and furnished by the Recorder and tendering
the license tax and filing fee of $0.50 for each license certificate requested.
   (B)   In addition to the required license certificate, there shall be
required and issued at the time of the issuance of said certificate to the
person owning coin-operated devices a decalcomania stamp or other evidence of
said license certificate for each coin-operated device licensed by said
certificate.
   (C)   The Recorder shall collect in full the proper taxes and fees and
determine to his or her satisfaction that all of the conditions precedent to
the granting of such license have been fulfilled by the applicant before
issuing a certificate of license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 3)
§ 110.004 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS.
   Payment in full of the proper tax and fee as specified in this chapter, the
issuance of a certificate of license under the provisions of §
110.003 and the fulfillment of all terms and conditions of such grants shall be
conditions precedent to the transaction of any business, activity, trade or
employment for which a license is required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 4)
§ 110.005 LICENSING NOT TO LEGALIZE ANY ACT.
   Nothing in this chapter, and no payment or issuance of any certificate of
license under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which
otherwise may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person from any penalty
prescribed for such violation.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 5)
§ 110.006 LICENSE PERIOD; MINIMUM FEE.
   Except as may be herein otherwise expressly provided, all annual licenses
issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be for a period of one year
beginning on July 1 and ending on the following June 30.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 6)
§ 110.007 EXHIBITION OF LICENSES.
   Every person to whom a certificate of license shall be issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall keep such certificate posted in a conspicuous
position in the place where the privileges of such license are exercised,
except as otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter. Such certificate
of license shall be produced for inspection whenever required by the Recorder
or his or her agents.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 7)
§ 110.008 LICENSE A PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall confer a
personal privilege only to transact the business, activity, trade or employment
which may be the subject of the license and shall not be exercised, except by
the person holding the same, and shall not be assignable.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 8)
§ 110.009 EFFECT OF CHANGE IN PARTNERS OR NAME.
   No changes in the name of the firm, nor the taking in of one or more new
partners, nor the withdrawal of one or more members of the firm, so long as at
least one member remains the same, shall be considered as terminating the
privileges of any license granted to such partners or firm.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 9)
§ 110.010 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The Recorder, or his or her agents, may distrain upon any personal property,
including intangibles. of any person delinquent in the payment of taxes and
penalties accrued and unpaid under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 10)
§ 110.011 PERCENTAGE PENALTIES WHEN BUSINESS TRANSACTED WITHOUT LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business, activity, trade or
employment contrary to the provisions of this chapter, whether without
obtaining a license therefor before commencing the same, or by continuing the
same after the termination of the effective period of any such license, shall,
in addition to paying the license tax, be liable to the following penalties:
      (1)   If the license tax to which he or she is subject is an annual one
or for a period of one month or more, 10% of such tax for each month or part
thereof during which he or she has been in default; or
      (2)   If the license tax aforesaid is for any period less than one month,
10% of such tax for each such tax period or part thereof during which he or she
has been in default.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Recorder to collect the full amount of the
license and penalty therefor.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 11)
§ 110.012 COLLECTION OF BACK TAXES.
   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business, activity, trade or
employment contrary to the provisions of this chapter, whether without
obtaining a license therefor before commencing the same, or by continuing the
same after the termination of the effective period of any such license, shall,
in addition to all other penalties provided for in this chapter, be liable for
the payment of all back taxes and penalties for a period not exceeding five
years.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 12)
§ 110.013 COLLECTION BY ACTION OR SUIT.
   The Recorder may collect any license tax and penalty unpaid under the
provisions of this chapter by action in debt, motion for judgment or other
appropriate proceeding, including suit in the court of any town’s Municipal
Court.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 13)
§ 110.014 DUTIES OF RECORDER OR DESIGNEE.
   The Recorder or his or her designee shall make a complete report monthly to
the Council of all of the official activities and shall complete and deliver a
list of licenses issued by him or her, as well as all money collected.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 14)
§ 110.015 INTERPRETATION OF PRECEDING SECTIONS.
   None of the provisions of this chapter shall affect any of the sections
dealing with corporation land holdings or charter taxes, unless specifically so
provided.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 15)
**** SPECIFIC BUSINESSES ****
§ 110.030 BOWLING ALLEYS; BILLIARD, POOL AND BAGATELLE TABLES.
   (A)   License fees. The annual license fee to keep or maintain a bowling
alley, a billiard, pool or bagatelle table, or table of like kind, for public
use, where any charge is made for the use of the same, shall be $25.50; but if
more than one of such alleys or tables be kept or maintained in the same
building by the same person, the fee shall be $25.50 for the first one and $15
for each additional one.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 3, § 1)
   (B)   Minors prohibited. Persons keeping or maintaining billiard, pool or
bagatelle tables, or other tables of like kind, their agents or employees,
shall not permit any person under the age of 18 years to play at such tables
and shall not permit any such person under the age of 18 years old remain or
loiter, whether playing at such tables or not, in the room where such tables
are located.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 3, § 3)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.031 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND SHOWS.
   (A)   Circuses and itinerant shows; fees.
      (1)   The license to exhibit a circus or menagerie, a circus and
menagerie combined, wild west show or other itinerant show not exhibited in a
theater, opera house or other permanent place for public shows, shall be based
upon the number of railroads cars or motor truck used to transport the property
or equipment of such shows, but not including railroad cars or motor truck used
to transport the personnel thereof.
      (2)   If railroad cars are used, the fee shall be $4 for each car for
each day on which performance is given.
      (3)   If motor trucks are used, the fee shall be $3 for each truck for
each day on which any performance is given.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, § 1)
   (B)   Carnivals and riding devices; fees.
      (1)   The license fee to exhibit a street or other carnival shall be $25
a week for each entertainment, performance or exhibition given at or in the
vicinity of any such carnival. Each such entertainment, performance or
exhibition shall require a separate license, whether or not shown under the
same canvas and whether or not exhibited for additional compensation; and upon
any such entertainment, performance or exhibition being concluded, so that an
additional fee for admission is charged, an additional license fee shall be
required for any further or additional entertainment, performance or
exhibition.
      (2)   To operate any riding device of any kind at or in the vicinity of
any street or carnival show, the fee shall be $10 a week for each such device.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, § 2)
   (C)   Concession stands, wheels and rides; fees.
      (1)   To keep or maintain any concession stand selling service, goods,
wares or merchandise, such as food, soft drinks, ice cream, candy floss and the
like, at or in the vicinity of such street carnival show, the fee shall be $5 a
week for each concession.
      (2)   To maintain any concession stand such as ball games, bingo, cane
rack, penny pitch-till-you win, striking machine, weighting machine, shooting
gallery, artful dodger, bumper, fish pond, dart game or other legitimate games
of skill, none of which shall be controlled by the operator, at or in the
vicinity of any street or carnival show, the fee shall be $10 a week for each
such concession.
      (3)   To operate or maintain a candy wheel or any other legitimate
merchandise wheels, when operated without control of the operator, the fee
shall be $25 a day. To operate or maintain rides of all kinds the fee shall be
$10 each a week.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, § 3)
   (D)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   Such games as roll clowns, blowers, spinners, swinging ball,
creepers, race tracks, spot the spot and all other games controlled by the
operator are hereby forbidden, and no license shall be granted to any circus,
show or street carnival where such games are operated.
      (2)   No circus, show or street carnival shall be licensed which has any
gypsy fortunetellers or gypsies connected therein in any manner.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, § 4)
   (E)   Exempted shows. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
educational, literary, dramatic, musical or benevolent society or volunteer
fire companies, not conducted for private profit, where such exhibitions are
confined to one county, unless professional or paid talent, other than a
director, is employed in such exhibitions.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, § 5)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.032 COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, solicitation or
collection by or through an agent operating within the town. shall be
considered to be engaging in the business of a COLLECTION AGENCY within the
town.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 7, § 1)
   (B)   License fee. The annual license fee to engage in the business of a
collection agency within the town shall be $100.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 7, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions-see W. Va. Code § 8-13-4
§ 110.033 EMPLOYMENT AGENTS; LICENSE FEES
   The annual license fee to conduct the business of an employment agent, to
receive applications for employment, to hire or contract with persons for
employment shall be $200, except that the annual license fee for an agency or
registry for the employment of nurses, practical nurses or undergraduate
nurses, shall be $25.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 9, § 1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-13-4
§ 110.034 HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HAWKER or PEDDLER. Any person who shall carry goods, wares or merchandise
from place to place, either in person or by agent or employee, and sell, for
delivery at the same time, any such goods, wares or merchandise to any
purchaser at wholesale or retail, and any person who shall solicit for the
purpose of rendering any service.
      SALE. Includes both sales for money payment or for barter and offers to
make any such sale and offers to render any service or the rendering thereof.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 11, § 1)
   (B)   License fees; display.
      (1)   The annual license fee to act as a hawker or peddler, if the person
licensed travels without a motor vehicle, shall be $10; if he or she travels
with a motor vehicle of not more than one-half ton capacity, $15; if he or she
travels with a motor vehicle of more than one-half ton capacity, but not
exceeding one ton capacity, $50; if he or she travels with a motor vehicle of
more than one ton capacity, but not exceeding two tons capacity, $100; and if
he or she travels with a motor vehicle of more than two tons capacity, $150,
plus $100 for each additional ton or fraction thereof over two tons capacity;
and the person licensed shall pay at the same rate for each and every motor
vehicle so used.
      (2)   Such person shall carry his or her license in some conspicuous
place in his or her vehicle or about his or her pack, and, in addition thereto,
he or she shall cause to be painted or stenciled in a conspicuous place on the
left-hand side of his or her vehicle the number of the license and the words
“Town of Ansted” and the license year for which the license is issued.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 11, § 2)
   (C)   Exemptions; exemption receipt.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who
sells any goods, wares or merchandise to be delivered in the future; or to any
of the following who offer immediate delivery of the goods, wares or
merchandise being sold:
         (a)   Any person or persons within the town in the business or calling
of agriculture or grazing, who sell(s) individually or collectively, one or
more for the other or others, the product derived from his, her or their
business or calling aforesaid;
         (b)   Any person engaged in the maintenance or operation of a retail
merchandise store to exchange goods, wares or merchandise from such store for
agricultural, horticultural or grazing products or to resell any such products
received in due course of such business; nor to any other retail business
concern, established and operating continuously for one year or more within the
town in the sale of any products over regular routes;
         (c)   Any wholesaler or jobber selling soft drinks or nonintoxicating
beer for which he or she is duly licensed by the town;
         (d)   Any person who sells petroleum products, ice, wood, meat, milk,
ice cream, bread, cakes, pies and other bakery products, butter and eggs,
manufactured, grown or produced by any such person and not purchased by him or
her for resale;
         (e)   Any sales by societies, groups or organizations acting for
charitable, religious or benevolent purposes;
         (f)   Any agent or salesperson selling manufactured products, except
green groceries and canned or bottled fruit products, produced by his or her
employer and who sells the same to retail dealers for the purpose of resale;
and
         (g)   Any firm, corporation or individual having a stock of goods, or
merchandise, or manufacturing or processing plant, or plants kept or operating
at a fixed situs in the town, and declared for taxation in the county where
located, and using a vehicle or vehicles over a fixed route or routes, for the
purpose of selling or distributing, at wholesale, their, his, her or its said
merchandise, stock of goods or plant products.
      (2)   Any person exempt from license as provided in this section shall
obtain from the Recorder a license receipt, without cost, showing that he or
she is so exempt, which shall be effective for the period as provided for
annual license in this chapter, but to obtain such license receipt, he or she
shall make an affidavit and produce such other evidence as to the fact
entitling him or her to such exemption as the Recorder in his or her discretion
may require, which shall be on a form to be prescribed by the Recorder.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 11, § 3)
§ 110.035 HOTELS, TOURIST HOMES AND EATING PLACES.
   (A)   License required; fee. The annual license fee to keep or maintain a
hotel, tavern or tourist’s home, where rooms are kept or maintained for
transient guests, the charge for which is for a period of less than three days,
or to keep and maintain a restaurant, or other eating place, not operated in
connection with a hotel, tavern or tourist’s home, shall be $10. Short-term
accommodations do not require a license; long-term accommodation require
license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 13, § 1)
   (B)   Hotels and taverns. Every building where food and lodging are usually
furnished to travelers, and payment thereof required, shall be deemed to keep
or maintain a hotel or tavern shall constantly provide the same with lodging
and food for travelers. Any restaurant open to the public is required to
maintain a license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 13, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 11-12-3
§ 110.036 HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax.
      (1)   There is hereby imposed a tax on the use or occupancy of a hotel or
motel room within the boundaries of the town.
      (2)   The rate of such tax shall be 6% of the consideration paid for such
use or occupancy.
      (3)   The tax shall be paid by the consumer or occupant of the hotel room
and be collected by the hotel or motel operator as a part of the consideration
paid for the use or occupancy of the room.
   (B)   Collection of tax.
      (1)   The tax shall be collectible by the hotel or motel operator, who
shall account for, and remit to the town, all taxes paid by consumer. The
hotel/motel operator shall separately state the tax on all bills, invoices,
accounts, books of account and records relating to consideration paid for
occupancy or use of a hotel or motel room.
      (2)   A hotel/motel or hotel/motel operator shall not represent to the
public, in any manner, directly or indirectly, that it will absorb all or any
part of the tax or that the tax is not to be considered an element in the price
to be collected from the consumer.
      (3)   A hotel/motel operator doing business wholly or partly on a credit
basis shall require the consumer to pay the full amount of tax due upon the
credit sale at the time such sale is made or within 30 days thereafter.
      (4)   Notwithstanding that the total amount of such taxes collected by a
hotel/motel operator may be in excess of the amount of which a consumer would
be liable by application of the levy of 6% for the occupancy of a hotel/motel
room or rooms, the total amount of all taxes collected by any hotel/motel
operator shall be remitted to the town.
   (C)   Records and returns. Each hotel/motel operator shall keep complete and
accurate records of taxable sales and charges together with a record of the tax
collected thereon. Such records and documents shall be kept and maintained for
a period of three years unless the hotel/motel operator is notified by the town
that they be kept for a longer period. The tax imposed by this section shall be
due and payable in monthly installment on the tenth day of the month for all
taxes collected from consumers in the preceding calendar month. The remittance
of such taxes shall be accompanied by a return, in a form and containing such
information as the Town Clerk (Recorder) may, by rule or regulation, require.
   (D)   Liability.
      (1)   If any hotel/motel operator fails to collect the tax imposed by
this section or shall fail to properly remit such tax to the town, he or she
shall be personally liable for such amount as he or she failed to collect or
remit.
      (2)   If the hotel/motel operator is an association or corporation, the
officers thereof actually participating in the management or operation of the
association or corporation shall be personally liable, jointly and severally,
for any default or the part of the association or corporation to collect or
remit the tax as herein required.
   (E)   Exceptions. The tax imposed by this section shall not be collected in
the following instances:
      (1)   From any consumer occupying a hotel/motel room for 30 or more
consecutive days;
      (2)   When the hotel/motel room occupancy is billed directly to the
United States of America or any agency thereof; and/or
      (3)   When the hotel/motel room occupancy is billed directly to the state
or any political subdivision thereof.
   (F)   Rules and regulations. The Town Clerk (Recorder) may promulgate rules,
regulation and administrative procedures concerning the assessment, collection
and refund of the tax imposed by this section.
   (G)   Additional prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person to do any
of the following:
      (1)   To willfully refuse to pay or collect the tax;
      (2)   To willfully refuse to make the return required by this section;
      (3)   To willfully make any false or fraudulent return or false statement
in any return with the intent to defraud the town;
      (4)   To willfully evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof;
      (5)   To willfully aid or abet another in an attempt to evade the payment
of the tax, or any part thereof; and
      (6)   For any officer, partner or principal of any corporation or
association to willfully make or willfully permit to be made for such
corporation nor association any false return, or any false statement in any
return, with the intent to evade payment of the tax.
   (H)   Dispositions of proceeds of tax. From the revenues derived from the
tax imposed by this section, the Town Council shall appropriate such revenues
in the following manner and for the following purposes.
      (1)   Half of the net revenues received by the town shall be directed to
the town’s representing Central Violation Bureau (CVB), county or regional, at
the discretion of the Council.
      (2)   The remaining 50% of the net revenues received by the town shall be
appropriated for the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of the
town park and town recreation facilities, including land acquisition.
   (I)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions set
forth in W. Va. Code § 7-18, as amended, shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2005) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.037 SLOT MACHINES AND AUTOMATIC DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term SLOT MACHINE
shall not be deemed to mean or include any pay telephone or postage stamp
vending machine operated on the coin-in-the-slot principal.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, § 1)
   (B)   License fee.
      (1)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain an automatic baggage or
parcel checking machine or device which is used for the storage of baggage or
parcels of any character shall be $0.50 for each section of any such device
which is operated on the coin-in-the-slot principal.
      (2)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain any automatic toilet
locker or device shall be $0.50 for every such locker or device.
      (3)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain any other automatic
penny slot machine or device, which is not a gambling device under any law of
this state, shall be at the rate of $2 for each machine or device kept or
maintained by the licensee.
      (4)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain any other automatic slot
machine or device, which is not a gambling device as aforesaid, shall be at the
rate of $5 for each such machine or device kept or maintained by the licensee.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, § 2)
   (C)   Application; stamp and owner identification on machine. Application
for the licenses required herein shall contain the number of such machines or
devices to be kept or maintained by the licensee within the town during the
ensuing license year. One license certificate shall be issued to each person
keeping or maintaining such machines or devices as aforesaid, but the Recorder
shall issue to any such licensee a decalcomania stamp or other evidence of
license for each such machine for such machine or device, which decalcomania
stamp or other evidence of license shall be securely attached to the side or
front of each such machine or device properly protected and plainly visible.
Every such machine or device shall also bear on the side or front thereof so as
to be plainly visible the name and address of the person keeping or maintaining
such machine or device.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, § 3)
   (D)   Proprietor responsibility; liability; impounding and sale.
      (1)   The proprietor or owner of the business conducted in the place
where such machine is kept or maintained is charged with the responsibility of
satisfying himself or herself that such decalcomania stamp or other evidence of
license, is so attached before permitting its installation in his or her place
of business, and in the event the owner of any automatic machine or device
refuses, neglects or fails to pay the license fee due upon any such machine or
device, the proprietor or owner of the business conducted in the place where
such machine is installed, operated or maintained shall be liable for the
payment of such license fee. Upon the refusal or failure of the proprietor or
owner to pay such fee, the Recorder or his or her agents may take such machine
or device into possession and deliver the same to the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, on his or her own initiative, or upon order or
direction of the Recorder or his or her agents, may take such machine or device
into possession, and, in either event, said machine or device shall be
impounded until such license fee is paid.
      (3)   In the event the license fee and penalties are not paid to the
Recorder within ten days after the date of such impounding, then the Recorder
shall sell such machine or device in the manner provided by law for the sale of
personal property for taxes, and from the proceeds thereof shall discharge and
pay the license fee due on such machine or device and his or her costs,
including cost of impounding storage, penalties and other fees due the town and
the balance, if any thereby, shall be forfeited to the town.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, § 4)
   (E)   Store exemption; evidence.
      (1)   Except where the principal business of the operation of the store
is the operation of such machines or devices, no license fee shall be required
of persons keeping or maintaining such machines or devices owned by them in
their own licensed stores.
      (2)   Any person exempt from such license shall obtain from the Recorder
a license receipt, decalcomania stamp or other evidence of exemption at a cost
not to exceed $0.50 each, showing that he or she is so exempt, which shall be
effective for the period as provided for annual licenses in this chapter; but
to obtain such license receipt or other evidence of exemption, he or she shall
make an affidavit and produce such other evidences to the fact entitling him or
her to such exemption as the Recorder, in his or her discretion, may require,
which shall be on a form to be prescribed by the Recorder.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, § 5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 11-12-10
§ 110.038 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term TAXICAB STAND
shall mean and include any building or part thereof, parking place, telephone
or any other place, from which one or more taxicabs operate, even though such
place may be kept or maintained in conjunction with any other business.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 29, § 1)
   (B)   License fee. The annual license fee to keep or maintain a taxicab
stand, or any place of like kind, shall be $10.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 29, § 2)
   (C)   Disorderly conduct; liquor. The licensee or his or her agents or
employees shall not permit any other unnecessary noise or disorderly conduct in
his or her taxicab stand, and shall not permit any intoxicating liquors to be
brought in, or stored or kept in such place.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 29, § 3)
§ 110.039 THEATERS AND PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   The license fee to conduct a theatrical performance of any kind in the
town, and within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, shall be $10 for
each week, and no license for any such theatrical performance shall be issued
for a period of less than one week; provided, that in lieu of the above-
mentioned fee for conducting a theatrical performance as above set out, a
theater, opera house or other permanent place for public shows may be kept or
maintained within the town, or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof,
for one year, or any fractional part of a year, for a fee of $0.08 per seat,
based upon the seating capacity of such theater, opera house or other permanent
place for public shows; except that for permanent places for public shows known
as “drive-in theaters,” the fee shall be $0.16 per automobile location or
space, for one year or any fractional part of a year.
   (B)   In all instances where such theater, opera house or other public place
for public shows is located outside of, but within one mile of, the corporate
limits of the town, the license fee shall be the same as if such performance
were given within the town.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 31, § 1)
§ 110.040 TRADING STAMPS.
   The annual license fee to sell or offer for sale merchants’ trading stamps,
premium stamps or stamps or certificates of like nature, or to undertake to
redeem such stamps or certificates in money or goods, shall be $175. This
section shall not apply to any coupon or similar device issued and redeemed by
a manufacturer or packer.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 33, § 1)
**** REGULATION OF OTHER BUSINESSES AND PROFESSIONS ****
§ 110.055 AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell by
auction any goods, wares or merchandise within the corporate limits without
first obtaining a license therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 1)
   (B)   Judicial sales excepted. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to bona fide sales made under the provisions of chattel deeds of trust,
or conditional sales contracts by judicial process.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 2)
   (C)   Discontinuance of business. No sale by auction, except as provided by
division (B) above, may be held except for the legitimate purpose of disposing
of a stock in trade in order to discontinue business.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 3)
   (D)   Issuance of license. The license herein provided for shall be issued
by the Recorder upon application of the owner of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold by auction, and only after the Recorder shall be
satisfied that such sale is to be made in good faith for the purpose herein.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 4)
   (E)   Filing application; contents. An application for a sale by auction,
duly verified by oath of the applicant, shall be filed with the Recorder at
least ten days prior to the time such auction shall commence, and shall set
forth the following:
      (1)   The name, residence, address and business address of the applicant;
      (2)   The character of business in which the applicant has been engaged
during one year prior to the applications;
      (3)   The time and place of the proposed auction;
      (4)   The name, address and occupational history of each person who will
participate in conducting the sale by auction;
      (5)   A true and correct detailed inventory, item by item and article by
article, listing each separate article proposed to be sold at such sale. Each
item so listed shall have set, opposite it, its description and identifying
number, together with the true and actual cost of such item; and
      (6)   Such other information as may be reasonable requisite.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 5)
   (F)   Fee. Upon the filing of the application, as provided in division (E)
above, and after being satisfied that the provisions of this section are being
complied with, the Recorder shall, upon the payment of a fee of $100, issue
such license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 6)
   (G)   Hours. No sale by auction shall be held or open for business between
the hours of 6:00 p.m. in the evening and 8:00 a.m. the following morning,
except that such sale may continue until 9:00 p.m. on Saturday evening.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 7)
   (H)   Christmas sales; period of license. No sale by auction shall be
licensed or held in the month of December prior to the day after Christmas, and
no such sale shall be licensed or permitted for a period of more than 30 days,
Sundays and legal holidays excepted. Said 30 days shall be consecutive, except
as to Sunday and legal holidays, and from December 1 to December 25, inclusive.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 8)
   (I)   No new license within two years. No new license for any sale by
auction shall be issued to any person within a period of two years after such
person shall have been issued a license for such purpose.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 9)
   (J)   Where sale to be held. No sale by auction shall be licensed or
permitted except it be held at the applicant’s existing regularly established
place of business, and at the place wherein his or her regular business has
been operated for a period of at least one year prior to the application for
license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 10)
   (K)   Additions to inventory. During any sale by auction, no additions
whatsoever shall be made to the stock of merchandise set forth in the inventory
included in the application for license, and nothing shall be offered for sale
or sold at any such sale by auction which is an addition to the stock of
merchandise described in said inventory, or which has been added to the
applicant’s stock within a period of 60 days prior to the date of the
application for license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 11)
   (L)   Cards or tickets attached to listed article. Before the beginning of
any sale by auction, the applicant to whom the license therefor shall have been
issued shall cause to be attached to each article to be sold a card or ticket
with a number thereon corresponding to the number opposite the description of
such article contained in the inventory included in the application for
license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 12)
   (M)   Misrepresentations. At all sales by auction, the applicant and all
persons participating in the conducting of such sale shall truly and correctly
represent at all times to the public attending the auction the actual facts in
respect to the quality and manufacture of each article offered for sale. No
misleading statements, advertising, signs or posters shall be permitted in
connection with such sale.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 13)
   (N)   Cappers, boosters and shillers; prizes. No person shall act at any
sale by auction as bidder, or what is commonly known as a “capper,” “booster”
or “shiller,” or offer or make any false bid or offer any false bid to buy, or
pretend to buy any article sold or offered for sale at such sale. The giving of
prizes or other like inducement is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 14)
   (O)   Supervision of sale. The person to whom a license has been granted if
an individual, or if a firm or corporation the person who has been in charge of
the business shall at all times during a sale by auction remain in continuous
attendance for the purpose of supervising such sale in order that the
provisions of this section may be complied with.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, § 15)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.056 SALES AND SPECIAL SALES.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose. Sales, and special sales, as hereinafter
defined, and advertising in connection therewith, are hereby declared to be
matters affecting the public welfare and safely, requiring regulation.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADVERTISE. Includes any and all notice of intention to sell, whether by
word of mouth, newspaper advertisement, by magazine advertisement, by handbill,
by written notice, by printed notice, by printed display, by billboard display,
by poster, by radio announcement and by any and all other means of
communication, oral, written or printed.
      SALE and SPECIAL SALE. Includes the sale or offer for sale to the public,
of goods, wares and merchandise of any and all kinds and descriptions, upon the
representation by the seller, either express or implied, that such sale is
anticipatory to the termination closing out, liquidation, wind up,
discontinuance, conclusion or abandonment of the business in connection with
such sale. It shall include any sale or offer of sale published or advertised
to be a FIRE SALE, ADJUSTMENT SALE, CREDITOR’S SALE, TRUSTEE’S SALE,
LIQUIDATION SALE, REORGANIZATION SALE, ALTERATION SALE, EXECUTOR’S SALE,
ADMINISTRATOR’S SALE, INSOLVENT SALE, INSURANCE SALVAGE SALE, MORTGAGE SALE,
ASSIGNEE’S SALE, ADJUSTOR’S SALE, RECEIVER’S SALE, LOSS OF LEASE SALE,
WHOLESALER’S CLOSE OUT SALE, CREDITOR’S COMMITTEE SALE, FORCED OUT OF BUSINESS
SALE, REMOVAL SALE and any and all sales or offers to sell published or
advertised in such manner as to convey to the public that upon the termination
of the sale of the stock of goods, wares and merchandise on hand, the business
in connection therewith shall cease, be discontinued and abandoned.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 2)
   (C)   License required. No person shall hereafter publish, advertise, offer
to sell or conduct any sale of the type herein defined without securing a
license therefor from the Recorder.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 3)
   (D)   Powers and duties of Recorder. The Recorder is hereby authorized and
empowered to supervise and regulate sales and special sales, as defined in
division (B) above, and to issue a license or licenses therefor, to supervise
and regulate advertising as defined in division (B) above, and to make and
promulgate such reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct of such
sales and special sales and the advertising in connection therewith, as will
serve to prevent fraud and deception on the public.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 4)
   (E)   License application. Such license or licenses shall be issued in the
discretion of the Recorder upon submission of written application in a form
approved by the Recorder and verified by the person who, or by an officer of
the corporation which, intends to conduct such sale and to cause to be
published the advertising in connection therewith. Such application shall
contain a description of the place where such sale is to be held, the nature of
the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the effective date of the
termination of the occupancy. The application shall contain an itemized list of
all goods, wares and merchandise proposed to be sold, the place where such
stock was purchased or acquired and, if not purchased, the manner of such
acquisition. The itemization of goods, wares and merchandise proposed to be
sold shall contain a listing of all goods, wares and merchandise which have
been in stock for a period of 15 days or longer, prior to the application for
license, and a listing of all goods, wares and merchandise received in stock
within 15 days immediately preceding the application for license. The
application shall state the form and content of any and all advertising
proposed to be made or published in connection with the sale. The application
shall contain any additional information the Recorder may require. Any false
statement made in connection with such application shall be deemed to be a
violation of this section and shall be punishable as herein provided.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 5)
   (F)   License investigation and issuance; renewal license. Upon receipt of
an application and payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed, the Recorder
shall cause the same to be examined and investigated. If, after such
examination and investigation, the Recorder is satisfied as to the truth of the
statements contained in such application, and as to the form and content of the
advertising to be used in connection with such sale, he or she may then issue a
license permitting the publication and conduct of such sale. Such license shall
be for a period not exceeding 30 days except that upon satisfactory proof by
the license that the stock itemized in the original application has not been
disposed of, the Recorder may renew such license for an additional 30-day
period, upon payment of the renewal fee hereinafter prescribed. Such proof for
a renewal license shall be furnished in a form approved by the Recorder. The
application for renewal license shall contain an itemized list of goods, wares
and merchandise proposed to be sold in the same manner as prescribed for the
original application, and the same shall be verified by the applicant. The
Recorder shall cause the application for renewal to be examined and
investigated, and if satisfied as to the truth of the statements therein
contained, he or she may then issue a renewal license for a period not
exceeding 30 days, provided, however, that not more than three renewals shall
be granted for any such sale for the same location within a period of one year
from the date of issuance of the first license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 6)
   (G)   Advertisement or sale of other goods; revoking licenses. No goods,
wares or merchandise shall be advertised for sale, sold or offered for sale at
any sale or special sale, hereinbefore defined, other than those goods, wares
and merchandise itemized in the application for license or renewal license as
hereinbefore prescribed. The advertisement for sale, special sale or offer for
sale of any goods, wares and merchandise at any sale or special sale, as
hereinbefore defined, other than those goods, wares and merchandise itemized in
the application for license or renewal license, by any licensee, his, her or
its servants, agents or employees, shall operate automatically to cancel and
revoke the grant of such licensee made pursuant to the terms of this section.
The Recorder is hereby further authorized and empowered to suspend, cancel or
revoke for cause at any time any license granted pursuant to the terms of this
section.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 7)
   (H)   Display of license and stock list; right of inspection; advertising.
Upon commencement of any sale, as hereinbefore defined, the license issued by
the Recorder, together with a duplicate original of the stock list contained in
the application, shall be prominently displayed near the entrance to the
premises. At the close of each business week, the stock list so posted shall be
revised by marking thereon those items sold or disposed of during such week.
Suitable books and records as prescribed by the Recorder shall be kept by the
license and shall at all times be available for the inspection of the Recorder
or his or her agents. The license shall permit the Recorder or his or her
agents to examine all merchandise in the premises for the purposes of
comparison with the stock list. All advertisements or advertising and the
language contained therein shall be in accordance with the purpose of the sale
as stated in the application, and the language of such advertisements shall not
vary from the language as indicated in the application.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 8)
   (I)   Fees. Upon filing an original application or a renewal application for
a license to advertise and conduct a sale or special sale, as hereinbefore
defined, the applicant shall pay to the Recorder a fee in the sum of $25. If
any application or renewal application be disapproved, said payment shall be
forfeited as and for the cost of investigating the statement contained in such
application or renewal application.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 9)
   (J)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to sales
conducted by sheriffs, constables or other public or court officials, nor to
any person acting under the direction or authority of any court, state or
federal, selling goods, wares and merchandise in the course of his or her
official duties, nor to duly licensed auctioneers selling at auction sale.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, § 10)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.057 SOLICITATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Board of Supervisors. For the purpose of authorizing, regulating,
restricting and controlling public begging or soliciting of money,
subscriptions or contributions for any charitable, religious, educational or
benevolent purpose as herein set forth, there is created a non-partisan Board
of Supervisors of Public Solicitation of Funds, consisting of five members, who
shall be over the age of 21 years, residents of the town who shall be appointed
by the Mayor, and one of whom shall hold office for a term of two years, all of
whom are to serve without salary, or until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board from its
membership, and the Board of Supervisors shall have power to prescribe rules
and regulations for the carrying out of the purposes herein expressed. The
Board shall meet in regular session at least once a month, at a time to be
fixed by the Board, and shall meet oftener if necessary to perform the duties
imposed on the Board by this section. The Board shall have authority to issue
placards or notices for the use of all persons in giving notice to the public
that no contributions are made for the purposes set forth in this section
except to solicitors authorized by the Board.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, § 1)
   (B)   Unauthorized, unrestricted, unregulated begging or solicitation. The
unauthorized, unrestricted and unregulated public begging or solicitation in
the town of money, subscriptions or contributions for any charitable,
educational or benevolent purposes, upon the streets, in public places,
buildings and from house to house, or by the use of the telephone or otherwise,
is contrary to the promotion of economic integrity, is detrimental to the
morals, comfort and welfare of the inhabitants of the town, is unlawful and is
forbidden; but nothing herein shall be construed to prevent or forbid any
pastor, priest, rabbi, rector or minister of the gospel, or the governing body
of any church, from soliciting funds within their membership exclusively for
religious and church purposes. The offering for sale of tickets for any dance,
show or other performances represented as being for the benefit of a charitable
purpose shall be deemed to be the solicitation of money within the prohibition
of this section.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, § 2)
   (C)   Application for permission to solicit funds. Any person desiring to
solicit money, subscriptions or contributions for any charitable, religious,
educational or benevolent purposes, as herein set forth, shall file with the
Board of Supervisors an application on a form approved by the Board and shall
answer, under oath, all of the questions contained in the form and furnish to
the Board all such information with reference to the public solicitation of
funds as may be of assistance to the Board in determining whether permission
shall be given to such person for the purpose of soliciting funds for the
aforementioned purposes, and the failure or refusal to file the application and
furnish the information shall constitute sufficient grounds for the Board, or
the secretary of such Board, to decline the application of the applicant for
permission to solicit funds for the purposes herein set forth. The Board may
impose such conditions and terms precedent to the issuance of the permit
hereinafter provided for as it may deem reasonable.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, § 3)
   (D)   Secretary of Board of Supervisors; permits; appeals.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors shall designate one of its members to be
secretary of the Board of Supervisors of Public Solicitation of Funds, who
shall be a member of the Board, and the Board shall have authority to fix his
or her salary if any funds are available for this purpose. It shall be the duty
of the secretary of the Board to investigate all application of persons
desiring to solicit funds for charitable, religious, educational or benevolent
purposes, and if the secretary, after such investigation, is satisfied that the
purpose of such solicitation is a bona fide charitable, religious, educational
or benevolent purpose, and that the applicant for permit will solicit in good
faith and in the manner authorized for such bona fide charitable, religious,
educational or benevolent purposes, and that a proper proportion of the money
subscribed or contributed will be used for the purpose for which the
subscription or contribution is made, it shall be the duty of the secretary to
issue to such applicant a card giving the name of the person so authorized to
solicit, the purpose for which the funds are being solicited, the time within
which solicitations of money, contributions or subscriptions are permitted, the
manner in which such solicitation is authorized and whether the person
soliciting funds is being paid for his or her services as such solicitor;
provided, that it shall not be necessary for each solicitor to apply to the
Board of Supervisors where more than one person is soliciting for the same
purpose, but a general application for such persons may be made by any one of
them and cards for all such solicitors may be issued upon one application
therefor.
      (2)   If the secretary of the Board of Supervisors of Public Solicitation
of Funds, after investigation of any application for a permit to solicit funds
as herein provided, decides that such permit should not be issued, the
secretary shall decline to issue such permit, and the person whose application
has been declined by the secretary shall have the right of appeal to the Board,
and the Board shall hear and determine the application and appeal at any open
meeting, after notice thereof to the applicant and appellant and the decision
of a majority of the members of the Board, after such hearing, shall be binding
on all of the parties thereto. An appeal from the decision of the Board may be
taken before the Town Council, who shall, in such instances, have the power to
sustain or reverse the decision of the Board, but no appeal to the Town Council
shall be recognized as such until after notice of such appeal has been
published in at least one newspaper in the town for ten consecutive days, and
at the time of such hearing, the secretary or some other member of the Board
shall be present to furnish the Council with full information in support of its
decision.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, § 4)
   (E)   Every solicitor to have and exhibit card or certificate from Board.
Any person conducting a campaign or soliciting money, subscriptions or
contributions for any charitable, religious, educational or benevolent purposes
upon the street, in public places, buildings and from house to house, or by the
use of the telephone, or otherwise in the town, shall exhibit at all times when
soliciting such funds a card or certificate from the Board of Supervisors. The
card shall authorize such person to solicit money, subscriptions or
contributions for such purposes, in the manner and at the time when such
solicitation of funds is made. Any person soliciting funds, subscriptions or
contributions without such permit or certificate duly issued by the Board of
Supervisors or in any manner not authorized by the Board, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, § 5)
   (F)   Suspension or cancellation of permit. In the event of violation of the
condition, limitation or restriction imposed in the granting of any permit
herein provided for, or in the event of the misapplication of any funds
collected thereunder, the Board of Supervisors may suspend the effectiveness of
the permit pending a hearing before it as to whether or not any condition,
limitation or restriction imposed by the Board in the granting of such permit
has been violated. Such suspension of the permit shall be in effect only until
the hearing before the Board of Supervisors, upon reasonable notice, at which
hearing the holder of the permit may appear before the Board at the hearing in
person or by counsel, and may produce evidence. The Board is hereby authorized
to hear testimony, swear witnesses, and it may require the production of papers
and documents by subpoena to be served by any lawful police officer of the
town. If, upon the hearing, the Board shall determine that this section has
been violated, or any condition, limitation or restriction imposed in any
permit has been violated, the Board may cancel the permit or may suspend the
effectiveness thereof for such time as the Board may deem advisable. The Board
shall make a written finding of the facts, based upon the testimony heard by
it, and its finding as to the facts shall be conclusive.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, § 6)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.058 STORES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GENERAL STORE. Includes any store or stores or any mercantile
establishment or establishments in which goods, wares or merchandise of any
kind are purchased, ordered, sold or offered for sale either retail or
wholesale. For the purpose of this section, no coin-operated device or devices
shall be construed to be a STORE.
      PERSON. Includes any group or combination acting as a unit, individual,
committee, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, partnership,
copartnership, joint adventure, association, trust, firm or corporation, either
domestic or foreign, which is controlled or held with others by majority stock
ownership or ultimately controlled or directed by one management or association
of ultimate management.
      SPECIAL STORE. Includes any store or stores or any mercantile
establishment or establishments, in which goods, wares or merchandise of any
kind except cigarettes, tobacco products and soft drinks are purchased,
ordered, sold or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which
contains no coin-operated device or devices owned and operated by the store
proprietor.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 1)
   (B)   Store license required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
establish, operate or maintain any store in the town without first having
obtained a license so to do from the Recorder as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 2)
   (C)   Special store license tax. Every person establishing, operating or
maintaining one or more special stores within the town under the same general
management, supervision or ownership shall pay for the privilege of
establishing, operating or maintaining the same an annual license tax of $5.50
for each store.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 3)
   (D)   General store license tax. Every person establishing, operating or
maintaining one or more general stores within the town under the same general
management, supervision or ownership shall pay for the privilege of
establishing, operating or maintaining the same an annual tax of $15.50 for
each store.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 4)
   (E)   Exemptions. The establishment, operation or maintenance of stores by
the following shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this section:
      (1)   The United States of America, the state and its subdivisions;
      (2)   Religious and charitable organizations; and
      (3)   Any person or persons engaged within this state in the business of
producing agricultural products who, individually or collectively, sell in such
store only agricultural products which he, she or they have produced.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 5)
   (F)   License tax for part year. Each license issued prior to January 1 of
any year shall be charged for at the full rate, and each license issued on or
after January 1 shall be charged for at one-half of the full rate, as
prescribed in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 6)
   (G)   Application for license; filing fee. Any person desiring to establish,
operate or maintain a store in the town shall apply to the Recorder for a
license so to do. The application for a license shall be made on the form which
shall be prescribed and furnished by the Recorder and shall set forth the name
and address of the applicant, the name and location of such store and such
other facts as the Recorder may require. If the applicant desires to operate
more than one such store, he or she shall make a separate application for each
such store. Each such application shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $0.50
for each license requested, and by the license tax prescribed in division (C)
above.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 7)
   (H)   Return of application for correction; granting and display of license.
As soon as practicable after the receipt of any such application, the Recorder
shall carefully examine such application to ascertain whether it is in proper
form and contains the necessary and requisite information. If, upon
examination, the Recorder shall find that any such application is not in proper
form and does not contain the necessary and requisite information, he or she
shall return such application for correction. If an application is found to be
satisfactory, and if the filing fee and license tax, as herein prescribed,
shall have been paid, the Recorder shall issue to the applicant a license for
each store for which an application for license shall have been made. Each
licensee shall display the license so issued in a conspicuous place in the
store for which such license is issued.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 8)
   (I)   License not assignable or transferable. The license imposed by this
section shall not be assignable and shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 9)
   (J)   Change of location of store. Licenses issued under the provisions of
this section may be altered so as to permit removal of the store to another
location. In order to be effective at the new location, however, the
certificate of license must show upon its face an endorsement of the change by
the Recorder.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 10)
   (K)   Expiration and renewal of license. All licenses shall be so issued as
to expire on June 30 of each year. On or before July 1 of each year, every
person having a license shall apply to the Recorder for a renewal for the year
next ensuing, unless such person has ceased to operate such store or does not
propose to continue operation of the store during the year next ensuing, in
which event he or she shall notify the Recorder that he or she has ceased
operation of the store or that he or she proposes to cease operation of the
store prior to July 1 of the year next ensuing. All applications for renewal
shall be made on the forms prescribed by the Recorder. Each application for a
renewal shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $0.50 for each license
requested and by the license tax as prescribed in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 11)
   (L)   Licenses and fees in additions to others. The licenses and the license
and filing fees herein provided for shall be charged and collected in addition
to any and all other license fees or taxes which may be chargeable against or
heretofore chargeable against any person from whom a license under the
provisions of this section and shall likewise be charged in addition to license
fees or taxes which may be hereafter chargeable for any purpose whatsoever
against such person by ordinance hereafter enacted, unless such ordinance shall
otherwise expressly provide.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 12)
   (M)   Disposition of collections. All collections made by the Recorder on
account of the licenses required by this section shall be disposed of by the
Recorder in the manner heretofore provided for the disposal of the proceeds of
licenses generally and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the law
now applicable to municipal licenses generally in the town, shall apply to the
licenses required by this section.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 13)
   (N)   Surcharge on overdue tax. Any person who establishes, operates or
maintains a store without obtaining a license therefor, or continues to operate
the same after the termination of a license therefor shall in addition to
paying the license tax, be subject to a penalty of 10% of such license tax for
each month or part thereof during which he or she had been in default. This
penalty shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as the license.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 14)
   (O)   Collection by action or suit. The Recorder may collect any license tax
and penalty unpaid under the provisions of this section by action in debt,
motion for judgment or other appropriate proceeding, including suit in the
court of any Justice of the Peace.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, § 15)
Penalty, see §
110.999
**** BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX ****
§ 110.070 BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX RATES.
   Rates shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter V, Article 73) (Ord. passed 3-6-2008; Ord. passed
6-6-2019; Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 11-13-1 et seq.
§ 110.071 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When used in this subchapter, the term “person” or the term “company”,
herein used interchangeably, includes any individual, firm, co-partnership,
joint adventure, association, corporation, trust or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular number,
unless the intention to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
context.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BANKING BUSINESS or FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION. Any bank, banking
association, trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company or
licensee, building and loan association, savings and loan association, finance
company, investment company, investment broker or dealer and any other similar
business organization at least 90% of the assets of which consists of
intangible personal property and at least 90% of the gross receipts of which
consists of dividends, interest and other charges derived from the use of money
or credit.
      BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged or caused to be engaged in with
the object of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect. BUSINESS
shall not include a casual sale by a person who is not engaged in the business
of selling the type of property involved in such casual sale. BUSINESS shall
include the production of natural resources or manufactured products which are
used or consumed by the producer or manufacturer and shall include the
activities of a banking business or financial organization.
      CONTRACTING. Includes the furnishing of work, or both materials and work,
in the fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration, repair,
decoration or improvement of a new or existing building or structure, or any
part thereof, or for the alteration, improvement or development of real
property.
      GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of the taxpayer, other than a banking or
financial business, received as compensation for personal services and the
gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from trade, business, commerce or sales
and the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible property (real
or personal), or service, or both, and all receipts by reason of the investment
of the capital of the business engaged in, including rentals, royalties, fees,
reimbursed costs or expenses or other emoluments however designated and
including all interest, carrying charges fees or other like income, however
denominated, derived by the taxpayer from repetitive carrying of accounts, in
the regular course and conduct of his or her business, and extension of credit
in connection with the sale of any tangible personal property or service, and
without any deductions on account of the cost of property sold, the cost of
materials used, labor costs, taxes, royalties paid in the cost or in kind or
otherwise, interest or discount paid or any other expenses whatsoever. GROSS
INCOME of a banking or financial business is specified in §
110.072(J).
      GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES. The value, whether in money or other property,
actually proceeding from the sale of tangible property without any deduction on
account of the cost of property sold or expenses of any kind.
   GROSS INCOME and GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES. Not be construed to include:
         (a)   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
         (b)   The proceeds of sale of goods, wares or merchandise returned by
customers when the sale price is refunded either in cash or by credit;
         (c)   The amount allowed as “trade-in value” for any article accepted
as part payment for any article sold;
         (d)   Excise taxes imposed by the state; or
         (e)   Money or other property received or held by a professional
person for the sole used and benefit of a client or another person or money
received by the taxpayer on behalf of a bank or other financial institution for
the repayment of a debt of another.
      SALE, SALES or SELLING. Includes any transfer of the ownership of or
title to property, whether for money or in exchange for other property.
      SELLING AT WHOLESALE or WHOLESALE SALES. Includes:
         (a)   Sales of any tangible personal property for the purpose of
resale in the form of tangible personal property;
         (2)   Sales of machinery, supplies or materials which are to be
directly consumed or used by the purchaser in the conduct of any business or
activity which is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter or by W. Va.
Code Chapter 11, Article 12A; and
         (3)   Sales of any tangible personal property to the United States of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities or to the State of West Virginia,
its institutions or political subdivisions.
      SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING. Includes all activities engaged in by a
person for other persons for the consideration, which involve the rendering of
a service as distinguished from the sale of tangible property, but shall not
include the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer. This term
shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Persons engaged in manufacturing, compounding or preparing for
sale profit or commercial use, articles, substances or commodities which are
owned by another or others;
         (b)   Persons engaged as independent contractors in producing natural
resources products which are owned by another or others, as personal property,
immediately after the same are served, extracted, reduced to possession and
produced; and
         (c)   The repetitive carrying of accounts, in the regular course and
conduct of business, and extension of credit in connection with the sale of any
tangible personal property or service, except as to persons taxed pursuant to
the provisions of §
110.072(J).
      TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax hereunder.
      TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. Either the calendar year or the taxpayer’s
fiscal year when permission is obtained from the Town Treasurer to use same as
the tax period in lieu of the calendar year.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.072 IMPOSITION OF PRIVILEGE.
   (A)   Imposition. There is hereby levied and shall be collected annual
privilege taxes against the persons, on account of the business and other
activities, and in the amounts to be determined by the application of rates
against values or gross income as set forth in § 110.072(I) through (L).
      (1)   If any person liable for any tax under § 110.072(B), (C) or (L)
shall ship or transport his products or any part thereof out of the town
without making sale of such products, the value of the products in the
condition or form in which they exist immediately before transportation out of
the town shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax imposed in said
section, except in those instances in which another measure of the tax is
expressly provided. The Town Council shall prescribe equitable and uniform
rules for ascertaining such value.
      (2)   In determining value, however, as regards sales from one to another
of affiliated companies or persons, or under other circumstances where the
relation between the buyer and seller is such that the gross proceeds from the
sale are not indicative or the true value of the subject matter of the sale,
the Town Council shall prescribe uniform and equitable rules for determining
the value upon which such privilege tax shall be levied, corresponding as
nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of
like quality or character where no common interest exists between the buyer and
seller but the circumstances and conditions are otherwise similar.
      (3)   Gross income included in the measure of the tax under § 110.072(B),
(C) or (L) shall neither be added nor deducted in computing the tax levied
under the other sections of this subchapter.
      (4)   A person exercising any privilege taxable under § 110.072(B), (C)
or (L) and engaging in the business of selling his natural resources,
manufactured products or electricity at retail in the town shall be required to
make returns of the gross proceeds of such retail sales and pay the tax imposed
in § 110.072(D) for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling such
natural resources, manufactured products or electricity at retail in the town.
But any person exercising any privilege taxable under § 110.072(B), (C) or (L)
and engaging in the business of selling his or her natural resources,
manufactured products or electricity to producers of natural resources,
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, retailers or commercial consumers for the
use or consumption in the purchaser’s business shall not be required to pay the
tax imposed in § 110.072(D).
      (5)   Persons exercising any privilege taxable under § 110.072(C) or (L)
shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in § 110.072(D) for the privilege
of selling their manufactured products or electricity for delivery outside of
the town, but the gross income derived from the sale of such products or
electricity outside of the town shall be included in determining the measure of
the tax imposed on such person in § 110.072(C) or (L).
      (6)   A person exercising privileges taxable under the other sections of
this subchapter, producing coal, oil, natural gas, minerals, timber or other
natural resource products, the production of which is taxable under § 110.072
(B) and using or consuming the same in his or her business or transferring or
delivering the same as any royalty payment, in kind, or the like, shall be
deemed to be engaged in the business of mining or producing coal, oil, natural
gas, minerals, timber or other natural resource products for sale, profit or
commercial use, and shall be required to make returns on account of the
production of the business showing the gross proceeds or equivalent in
accordance with uniform and equitable rules for determining the value upon
which such privilege tax shall be levied, corresponding as nearly as possible
to the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of like quality or
character by other taxpayers, which rules the Town Council shall prescribe.
   (B)   Severance, extraction and production of coal and other natural
resource products.
      (1)   Upon every person exercising the privilege of engaging or
continuing within the town in the business of severing, or extracting, reducing
to possession and producing for sale, profit or commercial use any natural
resource products, the amount of such tax to be equal to the value of the
articles produced as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof
by the producer, except as otherwise provided, multiplied by the respective
rates and in the classifications as follows:
         (a)   Coal: 1.00%. The value of coal mined and produced in the town in
the exercise of the production privilege, taxable at the rates herein and in
conjunction with § 110.072, shall include in addition to the value of the mined
product those values arising from the ordinary processing and preparing of such
coal for sale or commercial use where such processing and preparing are done by
the producer of the coal. Ordinary processing and preparing of coal activities
by the producer thereof are considered an integral part of the production
privilege and include crushing, washing, cleaning, drying, sorting, sizing,
blending, loading for shipment and the like applied in the ordinary mining of
such products to make the same salable and commercially usable. The values
taxable herein and attributable to such ordinary processing and preparing of
coal activities will not be again taxable under the provisions of § 110.072(C)
to the producer of such coal. The processing associated with the production of
all other natural resources referred to in this section and more sophisticated
processing and preparing of coal activities shall be subject to the other
applicable provisions of this subchapter;
         (b)   Limestone or sandstone, quarried or mined: 1.50%;
         (c)   Oil: 3%;
         (d)   Natural gas, in excess of the value of $1,750: 6%;
         (e)   Blast furnace slag: 3%;
         (f)   Sand, gravel or other mineral product not quarried or mined: 3%;
         (g)   Timber: 1.50%; and
         (h)   Other natural resource products: 2%.
      (2)   The measure of this tax is the value of the entire production in
the town, regardless of the place of sale or the fact that the delivery may be
made to points outside of the town.
      (3)   For the purpose of the production of oil classification, and the
production of natural gas classification, as set forth in this section,
multiple co-owners of oil or natural gas, in place, lessees thereof or others
being vested with title and ownership to part or all of the oil and gas, as
personal property, immediately after severance, extraction, reduction to
possession and production, except royalty recipients, in kind, shall be deemed
to be a “group or combination acting as a unit” and one “person,” as defined in
§
110.071, if not otherwise defined therein, whenever engaged in the business of
producing oil or natural gas through common use, by joint or separately
executed contracts, of the same independent contractor, driller operator’s
services; and notwithstanding provisions of private contracts for separate
deposit of gross receipts in separate members’ accounts or for members of such
group or combination to take in kind any proportionate part of such natural
resources.
      (4)   Lessees, sublessees or other denominated lessees are considered to
be producers of all of the oil or natural gas produced, regardless of any
payment, in kind, to lessors, sublessors or other denominated lessors of a part
of such natural resources as rents or royalties. Recipients , royalties or
rents, in kind, in cash or otherwise are taxable on their gross income pursuant
to the provisions of § 110.072(I).
   (C)   Manufacturing, compounding or preparing products, processing of food;
exception of generated or produced electric power by public utilities or
others; treatment accorded electricity generated by manufacturers for own use.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business or manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others in whole or
in part, any article or articles, substance or substances, commodity or
commodities, or newspaper publishing (including all gross income or proceeds of
sale from circulation and advertising), except electric power produced by
public utilities or others, the amount of the tax to be equal to the value of
the article, substance, commodity or newspaper, manufactured, compounded or
prepared for sale, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof
by the manufacturer or person compounding or preparing the same, except as
otherwise provided, multiplied by a rate of 0.50%. The measure of this tax is
the value of the entire product manufactured, compounded or prepared in the
town for sale, profit or commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or the
fact that deliveries may be made to points outside the town. The value of
electricity generated by persons taxed under the provisions of this section,
which electricity is directly used by such persons in the business of
manufacturing and not sold or otherwise transferred or transmitted to others,
shall be exempt from the imposition of any tax under this subchapter. The
dressing and processing of food by a person, firm or corporation which food is
to be sold on a wholesale basis by such person, firm or corporation, shall not
be considered as manufacturing or compounding, but the sale of these products
on a wholesale basis shall be subject to the same tax as is imposed on the
business of selling at wholesale as provided in § 110.072(D).
      (2)   It is further provided, however, that in those instances in which
the same person partially manufactures, compounds or prepared products within
the town and partially manufactures, compounds or prepares such products
outside of the town the measure of this tax under this section shall be that
proportion of the sale price of the product that the payroll cost of
manufacturing within the town bears to the entire payroll cost of manufacturing
the product; or, at the option of the taxpayer, the measure of his or her tax
under this section shall be the proportion of the sales value of the articles
that the cost of operations in the town bears to the full cost of manufacture
of the articles.
   (D)   Business of selling tangible property: sales exempt. Upon every person
engaging or continuing within the town in the business of selling any tangible
property whatsoever, real or personal, including the sale of food, and the
services incident to the sale of food in hotels, restaurants, cafeterias,
confectioneries, and other public eating houses, except sales by any person
engaging or continuing in the business of horticulture, agriculture or grazing,
or of selling stocks, bonds or other evidence of indebtedness, there is
likewise hereby levied, and shall be collected a tax equivalent to 0.19% of the
gross income of the business, except that in the business of selling at
wholesale the tax shall be equal to 0.09% of the gross income of the business.
   (E)   Public service or utility business. Upon any person engaging or
continuing within the town in any public service or utility business, except
railroad car, express pipeline, telephone and telegraph companies, water
carriers by steamboat or steamship and motor carriers, there is likewise hereby
levied and shall be collected taxes on account of the business engaged in equal
to gross income of the business multiplied by the respective rates as follows:
street and interurban and electric railways, 0.49% water companies, 2.54%,
except as to income received by municipally owned water plants; electric light
and power companies, 4.00% on sales and demand charges for domestic purposes
and commercial lighting and 3.00% on sales and demand charges for all other
purposes, except as to income received by municipally owned plants producing or
purchasing electricity and distributing same; natural gas companies, 3.00% on
the gross income; toll bridge companies, 3.00%; and upon all other public
service or utility business, 2.00%. The measure of this tax shall not include
gross income derived from commerce between this state and other states of the
United States or between this state and foreign countries. The measure of the
tax under this section shall include only gross income received from the
supplying of public services. The gross income of the taxpayer from any other
activity shall be included in the measure of the tax imposed upon the
appropriate section or sections of this subchapter.
   (F)   Business or contracting. Upon every person engaging or continuing
within the town in the business of contracting, the tax shall be equal to 2.00%
of the gross income of the business derived from contracts entered into, on or
after the first day of January 2006.
   (G)   Business operating amusements. Upon every person engaging or
continuing within the town in the business operating a theatre, opera house,
moving picture show, vaudeville, amusement park, dance hall, skating rink, race
track, radio broadcasting station or any other place at which amusements are
offered to the public, the tax shall be equal to 0.50% of the gross income of
the business.
   (H)   Service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed. Upon
every person engaging or continuing within the town in any service business or
calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this subchapter, there is
likewise hereby levied and shall be collected a tax equal to 0.40% of the gross
income of any such business.
   (I)   Business of furnishing property for hire. Upon every person engaging
or continuing within the town in the business of furnishing any real or
tangible personal property, which has a tax situs in the town, or any interest
therein for hire, loan, lease or otherwise, whether the return be in the form
of rentals, royalties, fees or otherwise, the tax shall be 0.40% of the gross
income of any such activity. The term TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY, as used
herein, shall not include money or public securities.
   (J)   Banking and other financial business; Town Council findings.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business of banking or financial business, the tax shall be equal to 0.40% of
the gross income received from interest, premiums, discounts, dividends,
service fees or charges, commission, fines, rents from real or tangible
personal property, however denominated, royalties, charges for bookkeeping or
data processing receipts from check sales, charges or fees and receipts from
the sale of tangible personal property; provided, that gross income shall not
include:
         (a)   Interest received on the obligation of the United States, its
agencies and instrumentalities;
         (b)   Interest received on the obligations of this or any other state,
territory or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision, of
any of the foregoing or of the District of Columbia; or
         (c)   Interest received on investments or loans primarily secured by
first mortgage or deeds of trust on residential property occupied by
nontransients; provided, however, that all interest derived on activities
exempt under this division (J)(1)(c), shall be reported, as to amounts, on the
return of a person taxable under the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Persons taxed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not
be taxed under § 110.072(B), (I) or (L).
      (3)   The Town Council hereby finds and declares that it is the intent of
the Town Council to subject national banking associations and other financial
organizations to the tax imposed by this subchapter, in accordance with the
authorization contained in Rev. Stat. § 5,219, as amended by Pub. L. No. 91-
156, enacted December 24,1969.
   (L)   Business of generating or producing electric power; exception; rates.
      (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business of generating or producing electric power for sale, profit or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others, in whole or
in part, when the sale thereof is not subject to tax under § 110.072(E). The
amount of the tax to be equal to the value of the electric power as shown by
the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the generator or producer
of the same multiplied by a rate of 3.00% except that the rate shall be 1.84%
on that portion of the gross proceeds derived from the sale of electric power
to a plant location of a customer engaged in a manufacturing activity, if the
contract demand at such plant location exceeds 200,000 kilowatts per hour per
year, or if the usage at such plant location exceeds 200,000 kilowatts per hour
in a year.
      (2)   The measure of this tax shall be the value of all electric power
generated or produced in the town for sale, profit or commercial use,
regardless of the place of sale or the fact that transmission may be to points
outside the town; provided that the gross income received by municipally owned
plants generating or producing electricity shall not be subject to tax under
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.073 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no exemption to any person exercising a privilege
taxable under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of the subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Insurance companies which pay the State of West Virginia a tax upon
premiums; provided, that said exemption shall not extend to that part of the
gross income of insurance companies which is received for the sue of real
property, other than property in which any such company maintains its office or
offices, to the town, whether such income be in the form of rentals or
royalties;
      (2)   Nonprofit cemetery companies organized and operated for the
exclusive heretofore their members;
      (3)   Fraternal societies, organizations and associations organized and
operated for the exclusive benefit of their members and not for profit;
provided, however, that said exemption shall not extend to that part of the
gross income arising from the sale of alcoholic liquor, food and related
services, of such fraternal societies, organizations and associations which are
licensed as private clubs under the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 60,
Article 7;
      (4)   Corporations, associations and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious or charitable purposes;
      (5)   Production credit association, organized under the provisions of
the federal “Farm Credit Act of 1933”;
      (6)   Any credit union organized under the provisions of W. Va. Code
Chapter 31; provided, further, that the exemptions of this section shall not
apply to corporations or cooperative associations organized under the
provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 19, Article 4;
      (7)   Gross income derived from advertising service rendered in the
business of radio and television broadcasting; and
      (8)   The gross income or gross proceeds of sale of a gasification or
liquefaction of coal project in the demonstration, pilot or research stages;
provided, that prior to the commencement of operation of any such project, the
Town Council shall have first certified the project as eligible for such
exemption; provided, however, that such exemption shall expire seven years from
the date the project first receives gross income or gross proceeds from sales.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.074 COMPUTATION OF TAX; PAYMENT.
   (A)   The taxes levied hereunder shall be due and payable in quarterly
installments on or before the expiration of one month from the end of the
quarter in which they accrue. The taxpayer shall, within one month from the
expiration of each quarter, make out an estimate of the tax for which he or she
is liable for such quarter, sign the same, and mail the same together with a
remittance of the amount of the tax to the office of the Town Treasurer. When
the total tax for which any person is liable under this subchapter does not
exceed the sum of $10 in any year, the taxpayer may pay the same quarterly as
aforesaid or, with the consent in writing of the Town Treasurer, at the end of
the month next following the close of the tax year.
   (B)   Any other provision of this section notwithstanding, the Town
Treasurer, if he or she deems it necessary to insure payment of the tax, may
require the return and payment under this section for periods of shorter
duration than quarter-year periods.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.075 RETURN AND REMITTANCE BY TAXPAYER.
   On or before the expiration of one month after the end of the tax year, each
taxpayer shall make a return for the entire tax year showing the gross proceeds
of sales or gross income of the business, trade or calling, and compute the
amount of tax chargeable against him or her in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter and deduct the amount of quarterly payments (as hereinbefore
provided), if any, and transmit with his or her report a remittance in the form
prescribed by the Town Treasurer covering the residue of the tax chargeable
against him or her to the office of the Town Treasurer; such return shall be
signed by the taxpayer, if made by an individual, or by the president, vice-
president, secretary or treasurer of a corporation. If made on behalf of a
partnership, joint adventure, association, trust or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, any individual delegated by such firm,
copartnership, joint adventure, association, trust or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, shall sign the return on behalf of the taxpayer.
The Town Treasurer, for good cause shown, may extend the time for making the
annual return on the application of any taxpayer and grant such reasonable
additional time within which to make the same as may, by him or her, be deemed
advisable.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.076 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   (A)   If the taxpayer shall make any clerical error which shall be apparent
on the face of the return in computing the tax assessable against him or her,
the Town Treasurer shall correct such error or reassess the proper amount of
taxes, and notify the taxpayer of his action by mailing to him or her promptly
a copy of the corrected assessment, and any additional tax for which said
taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within 15 days after the receipt of such
statement.
   (B)   If the amount already paid exceeds that which should have been paid on
the basis of the tax so recomputed, the excess so paid shall be immediately
refunded to the taxpayer by the Town Treasurer which shall be payable out of
any town funds available for the purpose. The taxpayer may, at his or her
election, apply an overpayment credit to taxes subsequently accruing hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.077 ASSESSMENT OF TAX WHEN INSUFFICIENTLY RETURNED.
   (A)   Insufficient returned. If the Town Treasurer believes that the tax
imposed by this subchapter is insufficiently returned by a taxpayer, either
because the taxpayer has failed to properly remit the tax or has failed to make
a return, or has made a return which is incomplete, deficient or otherwise
erroneous, he or she may proceed to investigate and determine or estimate the
tax liability of the taxpayer and make an assessment therefore.
   (B)   Jeopardy assessment. If the Town Treasurer believes that the
collection of any tax which he or she is required to administer will be
jeopardized by delay, he or she shall thereupon make an assessment of the tax,
noting that fact upon the assessment. The amount assessed shall be immediately
due and payable. Unless the taxpayer against whom a jeopardy assessment is made
petitions for reassessment within 20 days after service of notice of the
jeopardy assessment, such an assessment becomes final. A petition for
reassessment by a person against whom a jeopardy assessment has been made must
be accompanied by such security as the Town Treasurer may deem necessary to
insure compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   Notice of assessments; petition for reassessment; hearing. The Town
Treasurer shall give to the taxpayer written notice of any assessment made
pursuant to this subchapter. Unless the taxpayer to whom a notice of assessment
is directed shall, within 30 days after service thereof (except in the case of
jeopardy assessment), either personally or by certified or registered mail,
file with the Town Treasurer a petition in writing, verified under oath by said
taxpayer or his or her duly authorized agent, having knowledge of the facts,
setting forth with definiteness and particularity the items of the assessment
objected to, together with the reason for such objections, said assessments
shall become and be deemed conclusive and the amount thereof shall be payable
at the end of the 30-day period. In every case where a petition for
reassessment as above described is filed, the Town Treasurer shall assign a
time and place for the hearing of the same before the Town Treasurer and shall
notify the petitioner of such hearing by written notice at least 20 days in
advance thereof and such hearing shall be held within 60 days from the filing
of the petition for reassessment unless continued by agreement or by the Town
Treasurer for good cause. The hearing shall be informal and shall be conducted
by the Town Treasurer, or in the event of his inability or disqualification to
act, by a person designated by the Town Council. At such hearing evidence may
be offered to support the assessment or to prove it is incorrect. After such
hearing the Town Treasurer shall, within a reasonable time, give notice in
writing of the decision. Unless an appeal is taken within 30 days from service
of this notice, the decision of the Town Treasurer shall be final.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.078 APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   An appeal may be taken by the taxpayer to the Circuit Court of
Fayette County within 30 days after he or she shall have received notice from
the Town Treasurer of his or her determination as provided in division (B)
below. The appeal shall be taken in written notice to the Town Treasurer, and
served as an original notice. When said notice is so served it shall, with the
return thereon, be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
docketed as other cases with the taxpayer as plaintiff and the Town Treasurer
as defendant. Before the appeal is heard, the plaintiff shall file with such
Circuit Court Clerk a bond for the use of the defendant, with sureties approved
by such Clerk, in penalty double the amount of tax appealed from, and in no
case shall the bond be less than $50, conditioned that the plaintiff shall
perform the orders of the Circuit Court.
      (2)   The Circuit Court shall hear the appeal and determine anew all
questions submitted to it on appeal from the determination of the Town
Treasurer. In such appeal a certified copy of the assessment of the Town
Treasurer shall be admissible and shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
tax due under the provisions of this subchapter. The Court shall render its
decree thereon and a certified copy of said decree shall be filed by the Clerk
of the said Court with the Town Treasurer, who shall then correct the
assessment in accordance with said decree. An appeal may be taken by the
taxpayer or by the Town Treasurer to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State
of West Virginia.
   (B)   Any written notice required by this subchapter shall, unless otherwise
specifically provided, be served upon the taxpayer personally or by certified
or registered mail.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.079 TAX YEAR.
   The assessment of taxes herein made and the returns required therefore
shall, for the calendar year 2006 commence with the period beginning January 1,
2006 for the year ending on the thirty-first day of December 2006 and
thereafter shall be for the year ending on the thirty-first day of December. If
the taxpayer, in exercising a privilege taxable under this subchapter, keeps
his or her books reflecting the same on a basis other than the calendar year,
he or she may, with the consent of the Town Treasurer, make his or her annual
returns and pay taxes for the year covering his accounting period, as shown by
the method of keeping his or her books.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.080 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be in addition to all other
licenses and taxes levied by the law as a condition precedent to engaging in
any business, trade or calling. A person exercising a privilege taxable under
this subchapter, subject to the payment of all licenses and charges which are
conditions precedent to exercising the privilege taxed, may exercise the
privilege for the current tax year upon the condition that he or she shall pay
the tax accruing under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.081 PAYMENT; PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Every remittance of taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be made by
cash, bank draft, check, certified check, money order or certificate of
deposit, to the Town Treasurer, who shall issue his or her receipt therefore to
the taxpayer and pay the money into the Town Treasurer to be kept and accounted
for as provided by law.
   (B)   If any taxpayer fails to make the return required by this subchapter,
or makes his or her return, but fails to remit in whole or in part the proper
amount of tax, there shall be added to the amount of the tax unpaid, from the
date such tax should have been paid, a penalty in the amount of 5% of the tax
for the first month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency and 1% of this tax for
each succeeding month or fraction thereof, of delinquency; provided, however,
that if such failure is due to reasonable cause, the Town Treasurer may waive
or remit in whole or in part these penalties.
   (C)   If the failure to pay is due to fraud or intent to evade this
subchapter, and the rules and regulation promulgated thereunder, there shall be
added an additional penalty of twenty five percent of the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties.
   (D)   The penalties so added shall be collected at the same time and in the
same manner and as a part of the tax.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.082 TAX A DEBT; LIEN OF UNPAID TAX; RECORDATION OF LIEN.
   A tax due and unpaid under this subchapter shall be debt due the town. It
shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien upon the
property of the taxpayer; provided, that such lien shall be subject to the
restrictions and conditions as are contained in W. Va. Code Chapter 38, Article
10-C, which may hereafter be made thereto.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.083 COLLECTION BY ACTION OR SUIT; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The Town Treasurer collect any tax, interest and penalty due and
unpaid under the provisions of this subchapter by a civil action or other
appropriate proceeding in this County in which the activity taxed was engaged
in; or the taxpayer resides; or by a civil action to enforce the lien therefore
in any county in which property of the taxpayer may be found; or, if the tax
due and unpaid under this subchapter is $1,500 or less, by suit in the Court of
any magistrate having jurisdiction of the taxpayer or of his property. If the
failure of any taxpayer to comply with the provisions of this subchapter shall
have continued 60 days, the Town Treasurer, in his or her official capacity,
may proceed to obtain an injunction restraining the taxpayer from doing
business in the town until he or she fully complies with the provisions of the
subchapter. In any proceeding under this section upon judgment or decree for
the plaintiff he or she shall be awarded his or her costs.
   (B)   In the event a business subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter
shall be operated in connection with a receivership or insolvency proceeding,
the Court under whose direction such business is operated, shall be the entry
of a proper order in the cause, make provision for the regular payment of such
taxes as the same become due.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.084 PAYMENT WHEN PERSON SELLS OUT OR QUITS BUSINESS; LIEN; LIABILITY OF
SUCCESSOR.
   (A)   Any person exercising any privilege taxable under this subchapter who
shall sell out his or her business or stock of goods, or shall cease doing such
business, shall file the return prescribed by §
110.075 and remit the entire tax that may be chargeable against him or her
because of all business done, within 30 days after selling out his or her
business of stock of goods, or ceasing to do such business. The tax imposed by
this subchapter shall be a lien upon the property of such person.
   (B)   (1)   The successor in business of any such person shall withhold so
much of the purchase money as will satisfy the taxes and penalty which may be
due until the former owner shall provide a receipt from the Town Treasurer
evidencing the payment of such taxes and penalty.
      (2)   If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods shall fail to
withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes and penalty hall
remain unpaid after expiration of the 30 day period allowed for payment
thereof, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of all such taxes
and penalties, and the same shall be recoverable by the Town Treasurer by
action or suit as provided by §
110.083
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.085 PREREQUISITE TO FINAL SETTLEMENT.
   (A)   Town Contractor. All municipal officers and agents making contracts on
behalf of the town shall withhold payment in the final settlement of such
contracts until the receipt of a certificate from the Town Treasurer to the
effect that all taxes levied or accrued under this subchapter against the
contractor have been paid.
   (B)   Non-resident contractors; user personally liable.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation contracting with a person, firm or
corporation not resident in or having a place or business in the town and
engaged in a business or service taxed under this subchapter shall withhold
payment in sufficient amount to cover taxes assessed by this subchapter in the
final settlement of such contracts until the receipt of a certificate from the
Town Treasurer to the effect that all taxes levied and accrued under this
subchapter against the contractor have been paid.
      (2)   If any person, firm or corporation shall fail to withhold as
provided herein, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of all
such taxes, and the same shall be recoverable by the Town Treasurer by
appropriate legal proceeding.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.086 PRIORITY IN DISTRIBUTION IN RECEIVERSHIP; PERSONAL LIABILITY OF
ADMINISTRATOR.
   In the distribution, voluntary or compulsory, in receivership, bankruptcy or
otherwise, of the estate of any person, firm or corporation all taxes due and
unpaid under this subchapter shall be paid from the first money available for
the distribution in priority to all claims, except taxes and debts due the
United States, which under federal law are given priority over the debts and
liens created by this subchapter, and except taxes and debts due the state,
which under state law are given priority over the debts and liens created by
this subchapter. Any person charged with the administration of an estate who
shall violate the provisions of this section shall be personally liable for any
taxes accrued and unpaid under this subchapter, which are chargeable against
the person, firm or corporation whose estate is in administration.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.087 CERTIFICATE TO CLERK OF COUNTY COMMISSION OF ASSESSMENT OF TAXES.
   The Town Treasurer for the more effective collection of the tax may file
with the Clerk of the County Commission of any county a certified copy of an
assessment of taxes under this subchapter. A certificate so filed shall be
recorded in a book provided for the purpose and thereafter shall constitute
binding notice of the lien created by this subchapter upon all lands of the
taxpayer located in the county as against all parties whose interest arose
after such recordation. Upon payment of taxes delinquent under this subchapter,
the lien of which shall have been recorded, the Town Treasurer shall certify in
duplicate the fact and the amount of payment and the balance due, if any, and
shall forward the certificates, one to the taxpayer and one to the Clerk of the
County Commission of the county where the taxpayer shall have been listed as
delinquent. The Clerk of the County Commission shall record the certificate in
the book in which releases are recorded, upon the payment of the required
recording fee therefore, which shall be paid by the taxpayer. From the date
that such a certificate is admitted to record the land of the taxpayer in the
county shall be free from any lien for taxes under this subchapter accrued to
the date that the certificate was issued.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.088 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT; REPORT OF COLLECTION.
   The Town Treasurer may distrain upon any goods, chattels or intangibles
represented by negotiable evidences of indebtedness, of any taxpayer delinquent
under this subchapter for the amount of all taxes and penalties accrued and
unpaid hereunder. The Town Treasurer may require the assistance of any police
officer of the town levying such distress in the town of otherwise of any
officer in levying the distress outside of the town. An officer so collecting
taxes due hereunder shall be entitled to compensation in the amount of all
penalties collected over and above the principal amount of the tax due, but in
no case shall such compensation exceed $25. All taxes land penalties so
collected shall be reported within ten days after collection to the Town
Treasurer and shall, at that time, be remitted to the Town Treasurer who shall
then pay to the collecting officer the compensation due him or her hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.089 ADMINISTRATION OF ARTICLE BY TOWN TREASURER THROUGH ITS APPOINTIVE
OFFICERS.
   The administration of this subchapter is vested in the Town Treasurer, as
hereinbefore provided, and shall be exercised by him or her under the
supervision and direction of the Town Council; the Town Council shall prescribe
forms and reasonable rules in conformity with this subchapter for the making of
returns and may delegate such duties to any elected officer of the town and
said Council shall also supervise the ascertainment, assessment and collection
of the taxes imposed hereunder by the Town Treasurer as hereinbelow provided;
and the enforcement of any of the provisions of this subchapter in any of the
municipal court of the town shall be by the officers hereinbefore referred to
at the direction of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as may be herein otherwise expressly provided, any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which a penalty is not
otherwise provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less
than $50, nor more than $200, or imprisoned not more than 30 days or both. Each
day or part thereof that any violation shall continue shall be deemed to
constitute a distinct and separate offense and be punishable accordingly.
(Prior Code, Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, § 99)
   (B)   Any person found guilty of willfully violating the provisions of §
110.036 shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to make the return
provided to be made in §
110.075 or to make any false or fraudulent return, with intent to defraud the
town or to evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof, imposed by this
subchapter; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade
the payment of the tax, or any part thereof, imposed by this subchapter; or for
the President, Vice-President, Secretary or Treasurer of any corporation to
make or permit to be made for any corporation or association any false return,
or any false statements in any return required in this subchapter, with the
intent to evade the payment of any tax hereunder. And any person violating any
of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, or
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not
exceeding one year in the County Jail or punished by both fine and
imprisonment, at the discretion of the Court, within the limitations aforesaid.
In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who shall knowingly swear to
or verify any false or fraudulent return, or any return containing any false or
fraudulent statement with the intent aforesaid, shall be guilty of the offense
of false swearing, and, upon conviction therefore, shall be punished in the
manner providing by law. Any corporation for which a false return, or a return
containing a false statement, as aforesaid, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000. The Police Court of
the town and the Circuit Court of the county in which the offender resides or
in which the return was filed, or, if a corporation, in which it carries on
business, shall have concurrent jurisdiction to enforce this division (C)(1).
   (2)    Any official violating §
110.085 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not exceeding one year in the County
Jail, or shall be subject to both said fine and imprisonment, in the discretion
of the Court.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2005; Ord. passed 9-1-2005)
CHAPTER 111: VAPE/SMOKE SHOPS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Location requirements
   
111.04   Future operations on the same location
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine or any
other substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a person to
simulate smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the product. The
term ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes any such device, whether manufactured,
distributed, marketed or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah or
vape pen, or under any other product name or descriptor.
   VAPE/SMOKE SHOP. A retail or service establishment that devotes at least 33%
of its floor to the sale and display of electronic cigarettes, tobacco products
and/or allows vaping on site or a retail establishment that holds itself out or
advertises itself primarily as an electronic cigarette retail establishment
(Ord. passed 3-7-2024)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate a vape/smoke shop
within the corporate limits of the town without having first procured a
conditional use permit from the town.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for any vape/smoke shop that is located
within 5,280 feet of any other vape/smoke shop or of any property used or zoned
for school, college, daycare, community center or youth serving area/park. The
separation distances shall be measured from or to the outer wall of the vape/
smoke shop to the property line of the property containing the school, college,
daycare, community center or youth-serving area/park.
   (B)   If such school, college, daycare, community center or youth serving
area/park is established within 5,280 feet of any vape/smoke shop after the
premises has been permitted, the premises shall remain an eligible location for
said permit as long as the premises remains in compliance with §
111.04.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 FUTURE OPERATIONS ON THE SAME LOCATION.
   In the event any vape/smoke shop abandons or discontinues a retail
establishment in operation prior to the effective date of this chapter, any
future vape/smoke shop operated at the same location shall be required to
comply with the distance requirements set forth in this section. This provision
shall not apply to a change in ownership which may occur by operation of law,
including a court order, divorce, death, mortgage foreclosure, bankruptcy or
transfer by contract, provided there is a continuous occupancy or operation of
the electronic cigarette retail establishment at the permitted location.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   State misdemeanor criminal provisions adopted
   
130.02   Drug paraphernalia
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 STATE MISDEMEANOR CRIMINAL PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town adopts all statutes regarding misdemeanor offenses as
contained within the state code, and any subsequent amendments to such statutes
passed by the state legislature and which are signed into law by the executive
branch of government. For the purpose of this section, misdemeanor statutes as
contained within the state code are those statutes that proscribe specific
conduct and which impose as a possible penalty a fine only and a fine and/or a
period of incarceration in the county or regional jail of one year or less upon
the commission of such proscribed conduct.
   (B)   For purpose of this section, in the event that a misdemeanor statute
within the state code authorizes incarceration in a county or regional jail as
a possible penalty and such term of incarceration specified in the state code
is in excess of 30 days such statute shall be amended for purposes of inclusion
in this code as having a maximum term of incarceration of 30 days in the county
or regional jail.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Any person who conducts, finances, manages, supervises, directs or
owns all or part of an illegal drug paraphernalia business is guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   A person violates division (A) above when:
      (1)   The person conducts, finances, manages, supervises, directs or owns
all or part of a business which for profit, in the regular course of business
or as a continuing course of conduct, manufactures, sells, stores, possesses,
gives away or furnishes objects designed to be primarily useful as drug
devices; and/or
      (2)   The person knows or has reason to know that the design of such
objects renders them primarily useful as drug devices.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, DRUG DEVICE means an object usable
for smoking marijuana, for smoking controlled substances defined as
tetrahydrocannabinols, or for ingesting or inhaling cocaine, and includes, but
is not limited to:
      (1)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      (2)   Water pipes;
      (3)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      (4)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      (5)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as
a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      (6)   Chamber pipes;
      (7)   Carburetor pipes;
      (8)   Electric pipes;
      (9)   Air-driven pipes;
      (10)   Chillums;
      (11)   Bongs;
      (12)   Ice pipes or chillers; and
      (13)   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials.
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, the question whether an object
is a drug device shall be a question of fact.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any items, effect,
paraphernalia, accessory or thing which is designed or marketed for use with
controlled substances as defined by W. Va. Code Chapter 60A. This section shall
not prohibit the sale or use of any items traditionally used with tobacco
products such as pipes and/or rolling papers.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who conducts, finances, manages, supervises, directs
or owns all or part of an illegal drug paraphernalia business is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500,
or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   The penalty for possession of drug paraphernalia, as provided in §
130.02, shall be a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   PLANNING AND ZONING
      
154.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Intent; applicability; abrogation
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Adoption of State Building Code
Administration
   
150.15   Permit required
   
150.16   Placards
   
150.17   Start of construction
   
150.18   Inspection and revocation
   
150.19   Fees
   
150.20   Appeals
Buildings and Housing
   
150.35   Definitions
   
150.36   Town Housing Commission; enforcement agency
   
150.37   Building Inspector
   
150.38   Notice
   
150.39   Duties of owners
   
150.40   Duties of occupants
   
150.41   Vacating; posting
   
150.42   Nuisances
   
150.43   Demolition
   
150.44   Hearings
   
150.45   Injunction relief; liability
   
150.46   Subchapter to be consistent with county garbage enforcement
Dilapidated Structures
   
150.60   Purpose
   
150.61   Definitions
   
150.62   Declaration of public nuisance
   
150.63   Inspection and notice
   
150.64   Dilapidated Buildings Review Board
   
150.65   Town abatement; appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 INTENT; APPLICABILITY; ABROGATION.
   (A)   Statement of intent. The intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
      (2)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices to
minimize flood damage in the future; and
      (3)   To minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, § 1)
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken the construction,
reconstruction, enlargement, alteration or relocation of any building or
structure unless an approved building permit has been obtained from the
municipal building permit officer.
      (2)   A building permit shall not be required for routine maintenance and
upkeep to existing buildings or structures, provided that no structural changes
or modifications are involved.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, § 2)
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter supersedes any
provisions currently in effect in flood-prone areas. However, any underlying
ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those
provisions are more restrictive.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, § 3)
   (D)   Municipal liability. The grant of a permit or approval of a
subdivision plan in the identified flood-prone area(s) shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the municipality or by any
official or employee thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed
use and shall create no liability upon the municipality, its officials or
employees.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, § 5)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all mobile homes and trailers to be used
for human habitation.
   PERSON. Any person, persons, partnership, business or corporation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins,
mobile homes and other similar items.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 5)
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   (1)   The town hereby adopts by reference the State Building Code as
promulgated by the State Fire Commission pursuant to W. Va. Code $ 8-12-13.
This includes all applicable portions of the following model codes as adopted
by the State Fire Commission:
         (a)   International Building Code (IBC);
         (b)   International Residential Code (IRC);
         (c)   International Plumbing Code (IPC);
         (d)   International Mechanical Code (IMC);
         (e)   International Energy Conservation Code (IECC);
         (f)   International Existing Building Code (IEBC);
         (g)   National Electric Code (NFPA 70); and
         (h)   Any other model code adopted by the Fire Commission as part of
the State Building Code.
      (2)   All provisions, regulations and standards included in the current
and future adopted edition(s) of the State Building Code are hereby made
effective within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The enforcement of this section shall be delegated to the Building
Code Official or his or her designee appointed by the town. Any violation of
the State Building Code shall constitute a violation of this section and shall
be subject to penalties as provided by state law and/or municipal code.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2025) Penalty, see §
150.99
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 150.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Issuance of permit. The building permit officer shall issue a building
permit only after it has been determined that the proposed construction will be
in conformance with all applicable requirements and regulations.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 1)
   (B)   Application procedures. Application for such a building permit shall
be made, in writing, to the building permit officer on forms supplied by the
municipality. Such application shall contain at least the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location
      (5)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost; and
      (6)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction, as well as any existing buildings or structures.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 2)
   (C)   Changes. After the issuance of a building permit by the building
permit officer, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the building permit
officer.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 3)
§ 150.16 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the building permit, the building permit officer shall issue
a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit, the
date of its issuance and be signed by the building permit officer.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 4)
§ 150.17 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction shall begin within six months after
the date of issuance of the building permit or the permit shall expire, unless
a time extension is granted in writing, by the building permit officer.
Construction shall be considered to have started with the first placement of
permanent construction of the site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings or
any work beyond the stage of excavation.
   (B)   For structures without a basement or poured footings, the start of
construction includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
of any part thereof on its pilings or foundation, or the affixing of any
prefabricated structure or mobile home to permanent site. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, land clearing, grading,
filling, excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations, erection of
temporary forms, the installation of pilings under proposed subsurface footings
or the installation of sewer, gas and water pipes or electric or other service
lines from the street.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 5)
§ 150.18 INSPECTION AND REVOCATION.
   During the construction period, the building permit officer or other
authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. In the event
the building permit officer discovers that the work does not comply with the
permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances or that there has been
a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant, the building permit
officer shall revoke the building permit and report such fact to the Town
Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 6)
§ 150.19 FEES.
   Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the municipality, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the building permit officer at the following rates.
Zoning Compliance Fees Building Permit Fees
Zoning Compliance Fees                       Building Permit Fees
Residential (by right) at $2 per square foot $10 for first $1,000
                                             $2 for each additional $1,000
Minimum fee                                  $50
Example:
 Building a new residence on property zoned R-4, totaling 1,900 square feet.
 The price fo material and labor was $60,000
 Zoning Compliance Fees                      Building Permit Fees
 1,900 sq. ft/100 = 19                       First $1,000           $10
 19 x $2/sq. ft. = $38                       Bal of $59 ($59k x $2) $118
                                             Total building permit  $128
 Zoning Fee                                  $38
 Building                                    $128
 Total of permits                            $166
Note: Other zoning inspections and verifications will be at a higher cost.
 
Calculation Sheet
For Building Permit # ___________________
 Number Rate Fee
Calculation Sheet
For Building Permit # ___________________
                          Number Rate    Fee
Building permit fee                     
   First $1,000              At $10  $
   Each additional $1,0      $2 each $
Zoning fee                              
   $2/100 square feet        $2      $
Total fee (minimum fee $50)              $
 
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 7; Building and Zoning
Calculation Sheet)
§ 150.20 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the building permit officer’s estimate of the cost
of the proposed construction may appeal to the Town Council. Such appeal must
be filed, in writing, within 30 days after the determination by the building
permit officer. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Town Council shall set a time
and place not less than ten nor more than 30 days for the purpose of hearing
the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing of the appeal shall be
given to all parties at which time they may appear and be heard. The
determination of the estimated cost by the Town Council shall be final in all
cases.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 8)
**** BUILDINGS AND HOUSING ****
§ 150.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or any portion thereof, including the
lot, yard, court, grounds and other surrounding areas connected therewith,
which is occupied or intended to be occupied in whole or in part as a home,
residence or sleeping place for one or more occupants, and includes any
outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto. DWELLING includes apartments and
rooming houses, but does not include hotels, motels, tourist homes, hospitals,
nursing homes or convalescent homes.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room designed for living, eating, sleeping or cooking.
Storage rooms, closets, bathrooms, toilets, lavatories, halls, corridors,
attics and basements are not HABITABLE ROOMS, except as otherwise specifically
provided.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, eating, cooking or
sleeping in or having actual possession of a dwelling.
   OWNER. Any firm, person or corporation who, alone or jointly or severally
with others, shall have legal title of record to any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with or without actual possession thereof, or shall have charge, care or
control thereof as agent of the owner, or as personal representative or
fiduciary of the estate of the owner.
   SUBSTANDARD. Failing to meet the minimum requirements of housing and health
as set forth under the laws of state.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. A dwelling, building, apartment, apartment
house, including among other garages, sheds and similar accessory structures,
which due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents or
other calamities, lack ventilation, light or sanitary facilities or any other
conditions prevailing in any dwelling or building, whether used for human
habitation or not, would cause such dwelling or other building to be unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public welfare.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 1)
§ 150.36 TOWN HOUSING COMMISSION; ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   The Town Housing Commission shall consist of the Mayor, the Building
Inspector and one member at large to be selected by and to serve at the will
and pleasure of the Mayor. The Health and Safety Inspector and the Fire Chief
shall serve as ex officio members of the Town Housing Commission. The Town
Housing Commission shall be the enforcement agency of this chapter and shall
meet at any time when convened by the presiding officer thereof, or by any two
members thereof, upon a written notification served upon all the members at
least 24 hours before the time of the meeting; or all of the members of the
Commission may sign a waiver of the requirements of such 24-hour notice. Two
members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Commission shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations
for its government. The Commission shall cause to be kept in suitable books a
full and complete record of its proceedings and acts.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 2)
§ 150.37 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval and consent of the Town Council and shall serve at the will and
pleasure of the Mayor. The compensation of the Building Inspector shall be
determined by the Mayor with approval of the Town Council.
      (2)   The powers and duties of the Building Inspector extend to all
buildings, structures, lots or portions thereof defined herein as a dwelling
within the municipal boundaries of the town.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall have general supervision over the
minimum standards for all housing in the town, as set forth herein. He or she
shall have the power to make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with
town ordinances or the laws of the state, as will tend to achieve and maintain
the housing standards set forth herein. He or she shall have the power to enter
and inspect all dwellings, buildings, structures, lots and places within the
town and to ascertain and report the condition thereof insofar as the minimum
housing standards are concerned, and to order the deficiencies noted to be
corrected, and take those steps authorized herein to enforce such orders, all
in the manner set forth herein.
      (4)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or
his or her duly authorized representative may enter, from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m., during a working day, any dwelling, structure, lot or place to make
inspections and perform any other duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter;
provided, that such inspections shall be made in such manner as to cause the
least inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      (5)   The Building Inspector shall cause to be kept in suitable books a
full and correct record of his or her acts and proceedings.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 3)
   (B)   Assistants and employees. The Building Inspector shall have such
assistants, inspectors and other employees as the Town Council may from time to
time direct. Such employees shall perform such duties and have such powers
prescribed under this chapter as the Building Inspector may direct.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 4)
§ 150.38 NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Inspector determines by inspection that any dwelling,
building, structure or lot is substandard in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter, he or she shall issue a notice and an order in writing to the
owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises thereof, and said notice
and order shall be served in accordance with the laws of the state concerning
service of process in civil actions, and said order shall, in addition thereto,
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by said notice and
order. The time periods hereinafter designated shall begin as of the date of
service of the notice and order. The order shall set out the date of the
inspection and by whom made, the substandard conditions found and shall order
specific corrective measures and give a date by which time the said corrective
measures shall be completed. The order shall require the owner, occupant or
person in charge of the premises to comply with the order for corrective
measures at the time allotted which shall be in the discretion of the Building
Inspector, but it shall in no case be less than ten days, or to appear before
the Building Inspector within ten days of being served with said order to show
cause why he or she cannot or ought not comply with the order in the time
indicated; provided, that whenever the Building Inspector finds that any
emergency exists which, in his or her opinion, may involve the potential loss
of life or severe property damage, he or she may issue an order reciting the
existence of such an emergency and requiring that such an action be taken as he
or she deems necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, such an emergency order shall be effective
immediately. Any person to whom such an emergency order is directed shall be
afforded a hearing upon petition to the Housing Commission, but if no such
petition be filed within 24 hours of that person being served with such an
emergency order, the person to whom such an emergency order is directed shall
comply therewith by the end of such 24-hour period.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 6)
§ 150.39 DUTIES OF OWNERS.
   The owner of any property subject to the provisions of this chapter, shall
upon service of the order and notice correct the deficiencies noted in the time
stipulated, or appear before the Building Commission and show cause why he or
she cannot or ought not comply therewith; and any owner who shall fail to show
cause shall, upon the expiration of the time allotted, be deemed to be
maintaining a nuisance, which shall constitute a violation of the provision of
this chapter. Every owner of a dwelling, building or structure shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the premises, and
he or she shall be responsible for the extermination of such rodents, insects
and pests from the premises.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 7) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.40 DUTIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The occupant of any dwelling unit subject to the provisions of this
chapter, whether the owner or not, shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter, or be guilty of a violation thereof. Every occupant of a dwelling,
building or structure shall keep the premises in a clean and sanitary condition
that part of the premises which he or she occupies and controls.
   (B)   Every occupant shall:
      (1)   Dispose of all his or her garbage and any other organic waste, in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers;
      (2)   Dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner;
      (3)   Be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests on the premises he or she occupies;
      (4)   Keep all plumbing facilities therein in a clean and sanitary
condition; and
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 8) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 VACATING; POSTING.
   If any order of the Building Inspector issued under the provisions of this
subchapter is not complied with within the time specified, the Building
Inspector may order the premises vacated by posting a notice on the front of
the premises with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation and its use or occupancy for that purpose is unlawful,” dated and
signed by the Building Inspector or his or her authorized representative and
said order shall be served on the owner, occupant or person in charge of the
premises in accordance with the laws of the state concerning service of process
in civil actions. Said order shall provide that if dwelling, building or
structure, ordered to be vacated shall continue to be a nuisance for three
months after the owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises is served
with said order to vacate, then the Building Inspector may cause such dwelling,
building or structure, to be removed or demolished. Any dwelling, building or
structure so ordered to be vacated shall not again be occupied until a written
statement shall have been secured from the Building Inspector that the
dwelling, building or structure has been made to comply with the provisions of
the order. Any dwelling, building or structure so vacated shall be immediately
closed by locking, by boarding and barricading, if necessary, by the owner
thereof at his or her expense until such written statement shall have been
secured. Occupying or continuing to occupy, or authorizing or permitting to
occupy, or failing to close any such vacated dwelling, building or structure,
shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 9) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following acts when committed, or conditions when existing, within
the town or within the area surrounding the town are hereby defined and
declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being or thing kept, maintained,
placed or found in or upon any public or private place, which is injurious or
dangerous to the public health, safety or good order;
      (2)   All dwellings, buildings or other structures of whatever character
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees and other appendages of or to realty kept or maintained
or which are permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be
kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, injurious or
annoying to the public; and
      (4)   The burning of any rubbish, trash, material or substances causing
an odor or smoke which creates a condition unhealthy or annoying to the public.
   (B)   The nuisances described in this section shall not be construed as
exclusive, and any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the state is, when
committed, omitted or existing within the town or within the area surrounding
the town, is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 10) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43 DEMOLITION.
   If any dwelling, building or structure shall continue to be a nuisance for a
period of three months. after the date of service of and notice, the Building
Inspector may proceed to have such dwelling, building or structure removed or
demolished, and the amount of the cost of such removal or demolition shall be
chargeable to the owner and shall be a lien against the real property upon
which such cost was incurred. This lien shall be superior to all liens thereon,
except those for taxes and paving assessments, and may be enforced through any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 11)
§ 150.44 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any owner, occupant or person served with an order and notice from the
Building Inspector which requires anything to be done under the provisions of
this chapter shall be entitled to a hearing thereon before the Housing
Commission upon written application thereto setting forth the grounds for such
hearing; provided, that such application shall be made prior to the end of the
time for corrective action set forth in the order or within the 30 days from
the service of and posting of such order, whichever period shall be less. Upon
receipt of such application, the Building Commission shall set a time and place
for a hearing thereon and shall notify the applicant in writing thereof. Such
hearing shall be held not less than ten days after receipt of such application.
After the hearing, the Housing Commission may sustain, modify or withdraw the
order complained of, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the
proceedings, including a copy of all pertinent notices and orders, shall be
reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Housing Commission.
   (B)   The Building Inspector is disqualified from voting upon any question
before the Housing Commission during the course of any hearing held pursuant to
this section, and he or she shall not exercise any of the powers of a member of
the Housing Commission during the course of any hearing held pursuant to this
section, or following any such hearing with respect to any case appealed to the
Commission from his or her notice, order or other action taken by him or her
pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 12)
§ 150.45 INJUNCTION RELIEF; LIABILITY.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Commission or the
Building Inspector pursuant to this chapter may apply to the Circuit Court of
the County for a temporary injunction restraining the enforcement thereof
pending final disposition of the case, but no officer, agent or employee of the
town shall be personally liable for damages arising from his or her lawful
performance of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 13)
§ 150.46 SUBCHAPTER TO BE CONSISTENT WITH COUNTY GARBAGE ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be required to be consistent with the mandatory
garbage enforcement regulations of the County Solid Waste Authority, as
authorized by W. Va. Code § 22C-4-10, as amended.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2004)
**** DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES ****
§ 150.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a procedure for identifying,
abating and removing structures within the town that are deemed to be
dilapidated, unsafe, unsanitary or unfit for human habitation or use.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2006; Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
§ 150.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED STRUCTURE. Any building or structure which is decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or use due to neglect, age,
structural deficiencies, fire damage or abandonment.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Town Building Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer
or other official designated by the Mayor or Council to enforce this
subchapter.
   OWNER. The person(s) holding legal title to the property, including any
lienholder, heir, executor or administrator.
   REVIEW BOARD. The Dilapidated Buildings Review Board, as created herein,
tasked with hearing appeals and making recommendations to the Town Council
regarding dilapidated structures.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2006; Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
§ 150.62 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any structure found by the Enforcement Officer to be a dilapidated structure
is hereby declared a public nuisance and subject to abatement under this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2006; Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
§ 150.63 INSPECTION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer may inspect any building suspected to be
dilapidated.
   (B)   If the building is found to be in violation, the officer shall issue a
written notice of violation to the owner, stating:
      (1)   The condition and violations found;
      (2)   The requirement to abate, repair or demolish;
      (3)   A deadline of 30 days to begin corrective action; and
      (4)   The right to request a hearing before the Dilapidated Buildings
Review Board within ten days of receiving the notice.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2006; Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
§ 150.64 DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Dilapidated Buildings Review Board (“Review
Board”) consisting of five members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Town Council. The Board shall include:
      (1)   Police Chief;
      (2)   Mayor;
      (3)   Building Commissioner;
      (4)   Fire Chief; and
      (5)   Property Commissioner.
   (B)   The Review Board shall conduct hearings, take testimony and review
evidence related to violations under this subchapter.
   (C)   After the hearing, the Review Board shall issue a written
recommendation to the Town Council, which may include:
      (1)   Dismissal of the violation;
      (2)   Extension of time for compliance; and/or
      (3)   Recommendation to repair, vacate or demolish.
   (D)   The Town Council shall act on the recommendation within 15 days of
receipt.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2006; Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
§ 150.65 TOWN ABATEMENT; APPEALS.
   (A)   Abatement. If the owner fails to comply with the Council’s final
decision, the town may:
      (1)   Secure, repair or demolish the structure; and/or
      (2)   Place a lien on the property for all costs incurred.
   (B)   Appeal. Any final order of the Town Council may be appealed to the
County Circuit Court within 30 days of the decision.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2006; Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order or direction of the building permit officer or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction, shall pay a fine to the town of not less than $25, nor more than
$100 plus costs of prosecution. In default of such payment. Each day during
which any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are hereby
reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a reasonable
time. Any structure or building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered
or relocated in noncompliance with this chapter may be declared by the Town
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, § 99)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
150.35 through
150.47 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which the offense is committed, continued or permitted
and, upon conviction of any such violation or noncompliance, such person shall
be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more
than 30 days or both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, § 14)
   (D)   Owners who fail to comply with a valid order of §§
150.60 through
150.65 shall be fined up to $100 per day for each day the violation continues.
Each day shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2025)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Connection of subdivisions with town streets or sewers
   
151.02   Grant by town official of exclusive right to appropriation of street
for individual use
   
151.03   Sewer or sidewalk construction
Street Openings
   
151.15   Connection with water and gas lines
   
151.16   Permit; surety bond
Moving of Buildings
   
151.30   Definitions
   
151.31   License
   
151.32   Bond
   
151.33   Permit
   
151.34   Injury or removal of property other than that of the town
   
151.35   Obstructing street
   
151.36   Warning lights required
Sidewalk Construction and Repair
   
151.50   When abutting owners to construct
   
151.51   Duty of abutting owner to repair; construction or repair by town
   
151.52   Applicability; interpretation
   
151.53   Business limit boundaries
   
151.54   Conformity with regulation required; special permit for deviation
   
151.55   Grades and widths of sidewalks
   
151.56   Cement requirements
   
151.57   Excavations; retaining walls
   
151.58   Concrete
 
   
151.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.01 CONNECTION OF SUBDIVISIONS WITH TOWN STREETS OR SEWERS.
   The streets, sidewalks and sewers of any division of property in the town
shall not connect in any way whatsoever with the streets, sidewalks or sewers
of the town, until and unless the owner of said streets, sidewalks or sewer
shall first have filed with the Recorder or Town Superintendent a map showing
plainly the size, location, dimensions and material and connection of said
streets, sidewalks or sewers and not then unless and until the owner shall have
first obtained the written approval and permission of the Recorder or Town
Superintendent to do so; and provided, further, that the Recorder or Town
Superintendent shall not approve or grant such permission unless said streets,
sidewalks or sewers are of the construction, material, size, dimensions and
location as they are called for by the town requirements.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 1, § 1)
§ 151.02 GRANT BY TOWN OFFICIAL OF EXCLUSIVE RIGHT TO APPROPRIATION OF STREET
FOR INDIVIDUAL USE.
   The streets and public ways of the town are held in trust for the public, to
be used for purposes of travel and such other uses as usually pertain thereto.
The granting by any town official of any license, permit, grant or execution of
any contract whereby any exclusive right is granted for the appropriation of
public streets or thoroughfares to private individual uses from which the
public derives no convenience, benefit or accommodation is declared unlawful.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 1, § 2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.03 SEWER OR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of laying or
constructing sewers, drainways or sidewalks, in, under or upon any of the
streets, sidewalks or public highways of the town without having first annually
secured from the Town Superintendent a permit therefor, paying for such permit
the sum of $25. No permit shall be issued until the Town Superintendent shall
have first satisfied himself or herself of the reliability and capacity of the
applicant to do and perform in a good and workmanlike manner the particular
form, class or kind of work that shall be specified in the application for
permit for any or all of the purposes set forth in this section, and until the
applicant shall also have given any bond required by any other ordinance of the
town in relation to such matters.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 1, § 3) Penalty, see §
151.999
**** STREET OPENINGS ****
§ 151.15 CONNECTION WITH WATER AND GAS LINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into or otherwise destroy any
street within the town for the purpose of connecting with water and gas lines
under said streets, or for any other purpose, within a period of five years
next after the paving of any such street, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 5, § 1) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 PERMIT; SURETY BOND.
   (A)   The Town Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, and upon the
showing of good cause therefor, issue a permit for the purpose of connecting
with the water and gas lines under any street in the town, or for any other
proper purpose, but before doing so, he or she shall require the person to whom
any such permit is issued to execute a good and sufficient surety bond in a sum
to be agreed upon by the Recorder, as a guarantee to the town against defective
work and material in repairing such streets.
   (B)   The bond shall provide for the maintenance of any such repairs for a
period of five years from the day of acceptance of the work, and such
maintenance bond shall be required to cover the repaired portion and not less
than ten feet square immediately surrounding any opening made for the purpose
aforesaid.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 5, § 2)
**** MOVING OF BUILDINGS ****
§ 151.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Any building or structure, regardless of its
composition, present or intended use, the horizontal or vertical dimensions of
which are greater than ten feet.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 1)
§ 151.31 LICENSE.
   No person shall move any building or structure over or upon the streets,
alleys or sidewalks of the town without applying for and obtaining a license
from the Office of the Recorder. The fee for issuance of such license shall be
$25 for each calendar year.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 BOND.
   The applicant for a license for moving buildings or structures shall file
with the Recorder a bond running to the town in the penal sum of $10,000, with
sufficient sureties to be approved by the Recorder, and conditioned that the
applicant, if a license be granted to him or her, will, in engaging in the
occupation of moving buildings or structures in the town, conform to all
requirements relating thereto, which are now, or may be hereafter, established
by the Council, and conditioned that said applicant will be responsible to the
town for any and all damages to any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant,
street, alley or other property of the town, occasioned or made by said
applicant, his or her agents, servants or employees in the course of moving
buildings or structures, and further conditioned that said applicant will
indemnify and save harmless the town from any and all liability for damages,
costs or expenses arising or which may arise in favor of any person by reason
of any negligence on the part or account of the applicant, his or her agents,
servants or employees in connection with the moving of buildings or structures
over the sidewalks, alleys or streets of the town.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 3)
§ 151.33 PERMIT.
   (A)   No owner of any building or structure shall be authorized to move the
same, or cause the same to be moved over or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
of the town without obtaining a permit therefor from the Recorder.
   (B)   Such permit shall describe the route to be taken in moving such
building or structure or part thereof and the length of time which may be
consumed in the work.
   (C)   Such permit shall, upon the payment of a fee of $25, be issued by the
Recorder if, in his or her judgment, the building or structure can be moved
without endangering the property of the town or the property of any other
person.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 4)
§ 151.34 INJURY OR REMOVAL OF PROPERTY OTHER THAN THAT OF THE TOWN.
   No license or permit granted pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall
be construed as authorizing the holder thereof to break, injure or move any
telegraph, telephone or electric light poles, or electric lines or wires, or in
any way to injure shade trees or any other property without securing permission
from the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 5)
§ 151.35 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   No building, structure or part thereof shall be allowed to remain standing
in any public street or any public ground of the town for more than 24
consecutive hours, except that the Recorder shall be empowered to grant an
extension if, in his or her judgment, such extension is reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 6)
§ 151.36 WARNING LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to leave a building or structure standing on any street
or alley of the town from 30 minutes before sunset to 30 minutes after sunrise,
unless the same shall be posted by an adequate number of red lights placed in
such positions as will adequately warn pedestrians and vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 7) Penalty, see §
151.99
**** SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR ****
§ 151.50 WHEN ABUTTING OWNERS TO CONSTRUCT.
   It shall be the duty of every property owner owning property abutting upon
any street upon which the curb has been placed in front of or alongside of his
or her property, and the duty of every agent having charge of any such property
for a nonresident property owner, to cause the sidewalk abutting thereon to be
laid according to the rules and regulations and specification adopted or
prescribed by the Council and within 30 days after the completion of such curb.
In cases where the street has recently been or is being paved, the Council may
extend the time within which the sidewall shall be paved for a period not
exceeding 60 days after the completion of the paving of the roadway.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 1)
§ 151.51 DUTY OF ABUTTING OWNER TO REPAIR; CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR BY TOWN.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all property owners, and of the agent of any
nonresident owner, to repair any sidewalk abutting the property owned by him or
her, or in his or her charge, or relay the same whenever required by an order
of the Council or the Town Superintendent so to do within 30 days after
receiving notice from the Council requiring him or her to repair or relay the
sidewalk.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty imposed for a violation of this subchapter,
the Council may proceed to repair or relay any sidewalk or to construct any
sidewalk upon any street where the curb has been set and where no sidewalk has
been laid, after first giving the property owner or his or her duly authorized
agent 30 days’ notice of its intention so to do, and may levy and collect the
expense thereof with 1% per month interest added after a demand of 30 days has
been made by the Recorder from the owner or agent, which cost and interest
shall be collected and shall become a lien on the abutting property.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.52 APPLICABILITY; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This subchapter presumptively provides for all matters concerning,
affecting or relating to the construction, alteration, repair or removal of any
sidewalks laid or to be laid in the town.
      (2)   Unless existing or specifically mentioned, the provisions of this
subchapter shall apply only to sidewalks laid or altered after January 9, 1950.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 3)
   (B)   Interpretation of sections. This subchapter is declared to be remedial
and is to be construed liberally to secure the beneficial interest and purpose
thereof.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 4)
§ 151.53 BUSINESS LIMIT BOUNDARIES.
   The following shall be the business limits: beginning at a point on E. Main
Street at the Department of Highways Bridge extending eastward on both sides of
the street to Ansted Junior High on the north and the skating rink on the
south.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 5)
§ 151.54 CONFORMITY WITH REGULATION REQUIRED; SPECIAL PERMIT FOR DEVIATION.
   No sidewalk or part thereof shall hereafter be built or laid, nor shall
curbing be laid or altered, except in conformity with §§
151.52 through
151.58. No sidewalk already laid, or hereafter to be laid, shall be raised,
altered or laid in any manner in violation of any of the provisions of §§
151.52 through
151.58 or the permit issued thereunder, and any deviation therefrom shall be by
special permit issued by the Town Superintendent by and with the advice and
consent of the Town Council had and obtained.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 6)
§ 151.55 GRADES AND WIDTHS OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Before the laying of any sidewalks or curbing within the town limits,
the grade must first have been established by the Town Superintendent, and it
shall be the duty of the Town Superintendent to set stakes for the grade and
width of sidewalks as conditions in §§
151.52 through
151.58 may require, and to file the same with the Town Council, and a copy
thereof with the Town Superintendent. Such report shall show the number and
width of the lot or property in front of which the sidewalk is to be laid. The
Town Superintendent may then proceed to require same to be laid in conformity
with the Town Superintendent report when the same has been approved by Council
and the provisions of §§
151.52 through
151.58.
   (B)   No sidewalk shall be laid within the lines designated as the business
limits, as defined in §
151.53 (unless a special permit is obtained therefor) less than five feet in
width nor more than 12 feet, but in all cases to conform as nearly as possible
to the already laid on either side. In the residence districts, the sidewalk
shall be laid along the property line, and should there be a vacancy between
the outer edge of said walk and the street line, the same shall be used as a
parkway.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 7)
§ 151.56 CEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All walks shall be laid with good Portland cement or its equal, and the base
shall be not less than five inches of concrete of proper mixture as required
for a first-class walk.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 8)
§ 151.57 EXCAVATIONS; RETAINING WALLS.
   All persons causing any excavations to be made for sidewalks shall have the
same properly graded and protected, and shall properly barricade the same for
the protection of the public. Whenever necessary, they shall, at their own
expense, properly erect masonry or steel construction or a sufficient retaining
wall to support properly the adjoining earth. Such retaining wall shall be
properly coped or provided with an iron railing to guarantee safety to the
public.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 9)
§ 151.58 CONCRETE.
   All mass concrete shall consist of a medium wet or plastic mixture of
cement, sand and stone, gravel or other hard durable material of such
proportion as may be approved by the Town Superintendent. The sand shall be
sharp, clean, coarse and siliceous. The cement shall meet the requirements of
the current standard test specifications of the American Society for Testing
Materials for these cements, and any other requirements of the Town
Superintendent. No caked or lumpy cement shall be used. No concrete shall be
laid when the temperature is below 40°F, unless the same is covered as to
prevent chill, and it should remain so covered for a period of at least 72
hours or until the same is thoroughly set.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, § 10)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
151.30 through
151.36 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $300, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days in the Town Jail, or both such fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, § 99)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Establishment of the floodplain area
   
152.05   Utilization of the floodplain area
   
152.06   Statement of purpose
   
152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Administration
   
152.20   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.21   Development permits
   
152.22   Fees
   
152.23   Government actions
   
152.24   Appeals
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.35   General standards
   
152.36   Specific standards
 
   
152.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter have been prepared with the intention of
meeting the requirements of: § 60.3(d) of the National Flood Insurance Program
44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d)); the National Floodplain Insurance Act of 1968 42 U.S.C.
§§ 4001 et seq., as amended; W. Va. Code §§ 7-1-3V, 7-1-3N and 7-1-3KK; and W.
Va. Code §§ 8A-4-2, 8A-5-7 and 8A-7-2.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business
or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development, new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage or the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
the town unless a permit application has been completed and a permit or
certificate of compliance has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
In addition, where land partially or fully in the floodplain is to be
developed, subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or
otherwise developed, a site plan with elevation data must be submitted to, and
approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development. Provision
of all other codes, ordinances and regulations shall be applicable insofar as
they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter and the community’s
need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from flooding.
   (B)   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided
for herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of
the provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent and shall require
the applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense. The singular includes the
plural, the plural includes the singular. The word “person” includes
corporation, unincorporated association or partnership as well as an
individual. The terms “shall” or “will” is always mandatory. The word
“building” or “structure” shall be construed as if followed by the phrase “or
part thereof.”
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to the datum specified on the community’s flood insurance rate map.
See also 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the entire development,
including the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a structure, is in
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   A person who in any capacity, for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure or excavation associated with a project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $1,000 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee.
      (2)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
         (a)   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
         (b)   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
         (c)   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and who
functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board, whose
primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management and
maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional capacity and any
employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or her employment,
performs any work which may be considered to be performing contracting work;
         (d)   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code § 19-16A-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire, unless the
operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property treated
for insect pests; or
         (e)   A corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship whose primary
purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
CONTRACTORS defined in this section and who employs full time a registered
architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which even a slight chance of flooding is
too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, storage of critical records and similar facilities.
These should be given special consideration when formulating regulatory
alternatives and floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY should not be
located in a floodplain if at all possible. If a CRITICAL FACILITY must be
located in a floodplain, it should be provided a higher level of protection so
that it can continue to function and provide services during a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information and water
surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor shall be the Floodplain Administrator.
The Floodplain Administrator may also be identified as the Floodplain Manager.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream crossings
and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed foundation of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME DEALER. A business licensed to sell manufactured
homes in the state as set forth in the state code.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the state code.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the State Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in state code.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood-resistant materials,
as defined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), and usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction, as herein
defined, commenced on or after October 30, 1981, and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
      (1)   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code Chapter
30, Article 13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering
education, training and experience in the application of special knowledge of
the mathematical, physical and engineering sciences to such services or
creative work as consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning and design
of engineering works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching
of advanced engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the
review of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance and operation of engineered
projects.
      (2)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or
in any other way, represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code Article
13, or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs any
engineering service or work or any other service designated by the practitioner
which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or offer to
practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code Article 13.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. Describes a condition in which, during the
base flood, water should not damage structures and any subsurface waters
related to the base flood should not damage existing or proposed structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered or
licensed as a registered professional engineer by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers as required under W. Va. Code Chapter
30, Article 13.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the noncompliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in flood insurance
studies and on flood insurance rate maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30 and A99. The
term includes areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are specifically
listed or otherwise described in this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (This definition is to be used only when calculating
the starting time for expiration of a permit.) The date the permit was issued,
including permits for substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond initial
excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a
permit must be obtained prior to beginning, permanent construction does not
include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms, nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the ACTUAL START OF
CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The State Division of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management.
   STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3U, any watercourse, whether natural
or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred. See SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures, which have incurred substantial
damage, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (3)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT must comply with all ordinance
requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance requirement will
cause removal of the structure from the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from the Secretary of
the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from
ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
      (4)   For the purpose of this definition, improvement is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
   TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the TOP OF BANK. In the field, a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF BANK. When a professional is
not employed the top of the bank will be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the water’s edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all requirements of this chapter. A structure or other development without
the elevation certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance
required by this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   State definitions, see W. Va. Code § 30-42-3
§ 152.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   Identification.
      (1)   The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of the town
which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) and described in the flood insurance study (FIS) prepared for the
town by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated September 3, 2010,
or the most recent revision thereof.
      (2)   The identified floodplain area shall also be those areas which have
been identified as flood hazard areas by the town by use of historic or other
technical data and shown on the town’s local flood hazards map. These areas
shall be designated as appropriate with the level of technical data described
below and shall be managed accordingly.
   (B)   Descriptions of floodplain areas. The identified floodplain shall
consist of the following four specific areas.
      (1)   The floodway area (F1) shall be those areas identified as such in
the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include floodway areas
identified in studies required to be used in the approximate areas as discussed
below.
      (2)   The floodway fringe area (F2) shall be those areas for which
specific 100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but which lie
beyond the floodway area.
      (3)   The AE area without floodway (F3) shall be those areas identified
as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-
year flood elevations have been provided but no floodway has been delineated.
      (4)   The approximated area (F4) shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided.
   (C)   Changes in designation of area.
      (1)   The delineation of the identified floodplain area may be revised by
the Town Council where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or more
detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a
River Basin Commission or other qualified agency or individual document the
necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
      (2)   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, the community shall notify the NFIP Administrator of the
changes by submitting technical or scientific data.
      (3)   The town may identify and regulate new flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas may be delineated on a local flood hazard map using best
available topographic data and locally derived information such as flood of
record, historic high water marks and/or approximate study methodologies.
   (D)   Elevations prevail.
      (1)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed development within
an identified flood hazard area is at or above the base flood elevation
specified in the flood insurance study, the structure shall not be required to
conform to the flood prevention design and construction standards or flood-
related development codes in §
152.36. Topographic data certified by a registered professional engineer or
licensed professional surveyor shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow
a thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator. The applicant is advised to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA to have the special flood
hazard area designation removed from the parcel or structure.
      (2)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed development is
below the base flood elevation specified in the flood insurance study, the site
shall be considered to be within the floodplain area and the proposed structure
shall be required to conform to all appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Boundary disputes. Should a dispute concerning any district boundary
arise, an initial determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator,
and any party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the Town Council. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.05 UTILIZATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   Floodway (F1).
      (1)   Within any floodway area (F1), no encroachments, including fill,
new construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be
permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment will not result in any increase in the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
         (a)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued.
         (b)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative the
applicant shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum
necessary to accomplish the project.
         (c)   All permitted uses, activities and development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the floodproofing and related provisions
contained herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations.
   (B)   Floodway fringe (F2). Within any floodway fringe area, any development
and/or use of land shall be permitted provided that all such uses, activities
and/or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the flood-
proofing and related provisions contained herein and in all other applicable
codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (C)   AE Zone without floodway. Within any AE Zone without floodway area, no
new construction or development shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the elevation of the
100-year flood more than one foot at any point. This requirement can be
satisfied by utilization of the floodway area where determined.
   (D)   Approximated floodplain (Zone A). Within any approximated floodplain
area:
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
      (2)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review or shall cause to be reviewed all
proposed development to determine: the amount being invested; and the specific
flood risk at the site. The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the
applicant to determine the elevation above which the development will be
reasonably safe from flooding using the techniques set forth in the town’s
approximate A Zone administrative procedures. When hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer who shall certify that the methods used correctly reflect
currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall include a
cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a statement of
findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations and the
like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical
review by the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (3)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted; provided,
that all such uses, activities and/or development shall be undertaken in strict
compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and
in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (E)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (1)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within
the floodplain area, the developer shall notify in writing, by certified mail,
the Town Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office, any adjacent
communities and any adjacent property owners of all such intended activities
prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all required
notifications must be submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration. In
addition, prior to issuing the local permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require copies of all necessary permits from those governmental agencies from
which federal or state law requires approval. Contact information for state and
federal permitting authorities as well as addresses for required notification
of appropriate county, state and federal government agencies are contained in
the town’s stream alteration administrative procedures.
      (2)   The developer shall also assure the town in writing that the flood-
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of stream will provide equal
or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. Hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineers, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain “best practice” techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
      (4)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts and other stream
crossings shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this
chapter.
      (5)   The developer is required to provide the community a legal
agreement detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed
on altered or relocated watercourses, including culverts, bridges and other
stream crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer
this agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
152.99.
      (6)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.06 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water supply
and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian, and to
protect natural drainage;
   (D)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning improvement
of real property as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a;
   (E)   Assure County E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency of
established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (F)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 152.20 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor is hereby appointed as Floodplain Administrator to administer and
implement this chapter by granting or denying floodplain development permits in
accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.21 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Development permits and site plan approvals required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken any development
or the new construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage,
the placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes)
within the town unless a permit application and standard site plan has been
completed and a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   In addition, where land that is either partially or fully in the
regulatory floodplain is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home
park or subdivision or otherwise developed, a detailed site plan must be
submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any
development.
   (B)   Approval of permits and plans.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
      (2)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code § 30-42-10.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit, shall
require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is duly
licensed as a contractor under the provisions of the state code. If the
applicant is not licensed, a written affidavit that such person is not subject
to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor as defined in W. Va. Code § 30-
42-3 shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and placed in the permit
file.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor, as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits
for new structures to the County E-911 Addressing Coordinator.
      (8)   The County E-911 addressing coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the County Floodplain
Administrator.
      (9)   The town shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Application procedures. Application for a permit and/or site plan
approvals shall be made, in writing, on the forms supplied by the town and
shall include all information stipulated under §
152.35.
   (D)   Changes. After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the
Floodplain Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the
application, permit or any of the plans, specification or other documents
submitted with the application without the written consent or approval of the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (E)   Permit placards. The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit
placard, which shall be prominently displayed on the premises during the time
construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit,
the date of its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (F)   Start of construction.
      (1)   Work on the proposed development shall begin within 180 days after
the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All work on
the proposed development must be completed within 18 months of permit issuance,
at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time extension is granted in
writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time extension shall
be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
      (2)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria:
         (a)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the
proposed development during the 18 months?
         (b)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property?
   (G)   Stop work orders, inspections and revocations.
      (1)   Stop-work orders.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
a stop work order notice for any development found ongoing without having
obtained a permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
152.99.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
a stop work order notice for any development found noncompliant with the
provisions of this law and/or the conditions of the permit. Disregard of a stop
work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in §
152.99.
      (2)   Inspections and revocations.
         (a)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
         (b)   If the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does not
comply with the permit application, or any applicable laws and ordinances, or
that there has been false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant, the
Floodplain Administrator shall issue a stop work order notice, revoke the
permit and request a temporary injunction.
         (c)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may
inspect any development covered by this or a previous ordinance to determine
whether any portion of the development has been altered to be in noncompliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   Certificate of compliance.
      (1)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to
permit the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted or wholly or
partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Occupying or
using a building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the
violator to the penalties described in §
152.99.
      (2)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to inspect and
approve a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or
part thereof hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt until the
inspector is in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by
the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development
being inspected conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
152.99.
      (3)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to install a
permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the development conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Installation of
utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
152.99.
      (4)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the local
Administrator upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of
special flood hazard.
      (5)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, floodproofing
certificate or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 FEES.
   (A)   Application for a permit for proposed development determined to be
occurring in a flood hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be accompanied
by an additional fee, payable to the town based upon a set schedule approved by
the town using the estimated value of the proposed construction as determined
by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the
town for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services.
   (C)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which a
permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit, the fees above specified shall be doubled. The additional
fee is intended to partially reimburse the town for the additional cost of
processing permits for work already underway. To more fully recover this cost
the fees above shall be tripled for every subsequent occurrence by the same
person. Payment of the increased fee shall not relieve any person from
complying fully with the requirements of this chapter in the execution of the
work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.23 GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Municipal annexation.
      (1)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets the requirements for participation in the National Flood Insurance
Program.
      (2)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards.
      (3)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the floodplain
boundaries, base flood elevation and location of the floodway where determined.
      (4)   (a)   In accordance with the 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), all NFIP
participating communities must notify the Federal Insurance Administration in
writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area.
         (b)   In order that all flood insurance rate maps accurately represent
the community’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority must be included with the notification.
      (5)   NFIP participating communities must notify the state coordinating
office in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified
by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority
to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. A
copy of a map of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating
the new corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority must be included with
the notification.
   (B)   Permits for government entities. Unless specifically exempted by law,
all public utilities and municipal, county, state and federal entities are
required to comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary permits. Any
entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this chapter must provide
a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption. In addition, the
entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of all relevant legal
documentation demonstrating the exemption.
   (C)   Liability. The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or
development plan in an identified flood-prone area shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the town or by any
official or employee thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed
use, and shall create no liability upon the town. All applicants proposing
development in or near a flood hazard area are urged to locate development as
far away from, and as high above, all flooding sources as possible.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
§ 152.24 APPEALS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is the right of
that person to appeal to the Town Council which shall be known as the Appeals
Board. Such appeal must be filed with the Town Council, in writing, within 30
days after notification of the decision.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Appeals Board shall set a time and
place not less than ten, nor more than 60, days for the purpose of hearing the
appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given to all
parties at which time they may appear and be heard. The determination by the
Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
   (B)   Appeal review criteria.
      (1)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative
substantial damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement or the
freeboard requirements, may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Board.
      (2)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter
shall adhere to the following criteria.
         (a)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon: a showing of good and sufficient cause; a determination that failure to
grant the appeal would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a
determination that the granting of an appeal will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing locals laws or ordinance.
         (b)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
         (c)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
         (d)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that the issuance of a decision to allow
construction of a structure below the base flood elevation will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance, and such construction below the
base flood elevation increases risk to life and property. Such notifications
shall be maintained with a record of all decisions as required herein.
         (e)   The Appeals Board shall maintain a record of all decisions
including justification for their issuance and report such decisions issued in
its biannual report to the Federal Insurance Administration.
         (f)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any
construction, development, use or activity within any floodway area that would
cause any increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
**** PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 152.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Permits are required in order to determine whether all new
construction or substantial improvements are:
      (1)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway or other flood hazard
area;
      (2)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) or the most
recent revision thereof;
      (4)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (6)   To comply with W. Va. Code § 11-3-3A concerning County Assessor
building or real property improvement notice; and
      (7)   Approved by County Health Department for well, septic and other
permits to assure facilities are designed and located in compliance with the
flood damage reduction requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Basic format. The basic format of the permit shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of land on which proposed development
is to occur;
      (3)   Names, addresses and valid state license numbers of all contractors
working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is being
performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing;
      (4)   A description of site location sufficient to locate the project,
including tax map and parcel number and most recent deed book and page number;
      (5)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
      (6)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
152.22;
      (7)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
      (8)   The contract required by 28 W.V. C.S.R. Series 4, and all addendums
to the contract(s), shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator for
review within five business days of contract signing. The community does not
require and will not keep copies of the contracts or addendums. Failure to
present contract or addendums for review shall void the permit. If a licensed
contractor is not involved, or the work is of an aggregate value of less than
$10,000, including materials and labor, a brief written description of proposed
work and the estimated value will suffice.
   (C)   Elevation and floodproofing information. All applicants are encouraged
to exceed the minimum elevation requirements contained herein. Flood insurance
rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest
floor above the freeboard height required by this chapter. Depending on the
type of structure involved, the following information shall also be included in
the application for work within the floodplain area:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure,
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         (f)   A finished construction elevation certificate must be prepared
by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualification.
The elevation certificate must confirm that the structure in question, together
with attendant utilities, is elevated in compliance with permit conditions; and
         (g)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the community determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a nonconforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below
base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall
state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
152.99.
      (2)   For structures to be floodproofed to two feet above the base flood
elevation (nonresidential structures only), all applicants are encouraged to
exceed the minimum floodproofing requirements contained herein. Flood insurance
rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of floodproofing
above the height required by this chapter. In order to obtain an “elevation
credited” flood insurance rate on dry floodproofed buildings, floodproofing
must extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   Plans showing details of all floodproofing measures, prepared by
a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the Base Flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, lowest floor and floodproofing limits,
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor; and
         (c)   A floodproofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the
plans in division (C)(2)(a) above, stating the structure in question, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities is designed so that:
            1.   The structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (3)   For structures constructed of flood-resistant materials used solely
for parking of vehicles or storage (appurtenant structures only):
         (a)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or
others of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground,
proposed finished ground and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of
proposed flood-resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the
floodway boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present
on the site;
         (b)   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must
be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. This certificate or report must confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities is designed so that:
            1.   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) are used in the construction of the structure from the
lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation and that
all utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (c)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
152.99.
   (D)   Site plan criteria.
      (1)   Site plans are required for all development, new construction and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a mapped floodplain area
and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   The owner or developer shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information:
         (a)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
         (b)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to floodplain areas, proposed lot sites and fills;
         (c)   Where the subdivision and/or development lies partially or
completely in the floodplain areas, the plan map shall include detailed
information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads, public
utilities and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the floodplain areas. A registered professional
engineer or licensed professional surveyor must certify the site plan; and
         (d)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
which are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the
approximated floodplain area (F4) and which are greater than ten lots or two
acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and
shall delineate a floodway:
            1.   When a flood insurance study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study must be used to substantiate the base flood;
            2.   If a FEMA flood insurance study is not available the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service or
state and local Water Resource Department; and
            3.   If the required data is not available from other sources the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a flood insurance study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
         (e)   1.   Where the subdivision or other development site lies
partially in the floodplain area and all proposed development including fill
will take place on natural grade a significant vertical distance above the
approximated floodplain area (Zone A) boundary depicted on the map, development
of detailed base flood elevation data may not be necessary.
            2.   In these cases, the site plan for the proposed development
must show contours at intervals of two or five feet depending on the slope, and
clearly delineate the area to be developed and the location of the floodplain
boundary as scaled from the FEMA map.
            3.   A registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor or others of demonstrated qualifications must certify the site plan.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction and to
construction of substantial improvements, and the repair of substantial damage,
to existing structures occurring in the floodplain area.
   (A)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement, ductwork
and utilities elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
nonresidential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters; and
         (d)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant on
all floodproofed structures and any elevated structures when the community
determines that the area below the first floor could be converted to a
nonconforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below base flood
elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
152.99.
   (B)   Manufactured home placement. Certain unique characteristics of
manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas pose an elevated risk of
substantial damage to property. Thus:
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the identified flood
hazard areas of the town shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid
state manufactured home installer’s license. The installer shall use an
installation design engineered to withstand flood hazards specific to the
particular home site. Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
within the flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance with the
following standards:
         (a)   The lowest floor, ductwork and utilities, including HVAC/heat
pump shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent foundation
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength engineered for use
in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating dry stacked block
piers shall not be used in flood hazard areas;
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of 42
W.V. C.S.R. Series 19, §§ 10A.1, 10A.2 and 10B, as authorized by W. Va. Code §
21-9-4. The anchoring shall be adequate to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include ,but are not limited to, the
over-the-top and frame ties, attached to permanent foundation elements. Ground
anchors may not be adequate to satisfy flood specific anchoring requirements.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces;
         (d)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and perimeter wall skirts of
brick or block must have openings; this type of skirting can collapse during
floods and compromise supporting piers. The openings must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (2)   The licensed state manufactured home installer placing the unit
shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the manufactured
home has been installed to the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, appurtenant structures
shall be located out of the floodplain area or elevated to two feet above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply.
         (a)   Structures shall be no more than 600 square feet in size and
valued at less than $10,000.
         (b)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
         (c)   Structures shall be located, oriented and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
         (d)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
         (e)    Flood-resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), shall be used in the construction of the structure
from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (f)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (g)   The venting requirements contained in division (A) above are
applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   In addition, a non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the
applicant stating that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or
attached garage shall not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that
the structure may be subject to greater flood risk, and that higher flood
insurance premiums may be possible, and that a change in use may require full
compliance with this chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers
of the existence of this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized
signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
152.99.
   (D)   Recreational vehicle placement.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles to be placed within any floodplain area shall
either:
         (a)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices
and has no permanently attached additions; or
         (c)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (E)   Fill. The Town Council officially recognizes the beneficial functions
the floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
Placement of fill in the floodplain area is discouraged and should be
minimized. No fill shall be permitted in the floodway. All fill placed in other
floodplain areas shall meet or exceed the following standards:
      (1)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The town may require the applicant to
demonstrate through engineering reports that proposed fill would not adversely
affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
shall be undertaken only by professional engineers who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the
responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In
addition, studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the town. During
permit review the community shall consider the following issues that have the
potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
         (a)   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
         (b)   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
         (c)   Deflection of floodwaters onto adjacent existing structures;
         (d)   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating erosion
problems; and
         (e)   Other unique site conditions may be considered when determining
whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property, including, but not
limited to, subsidence areas, karst topography, stream blockages and steep
topography adjacent to the channel.
      (2)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or system.
      (3)   Filled site must be contoured to drain properly (avoid ponding).
      (4)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in this division (E). For nonresidential structures, fill
shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use.
      (5)   At grade access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the
building line shall be provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a
nonresidential structure.
      (6)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall he or she
buried on-site.
      (7)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary stability
and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling. Fill compaction standards must
be appropriate to proposed post fill use, particular attention is necessary
when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
      (8)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (9)   Fill site and fill must be protected from erosion.
      (10)   All applicants placing fill in a mapped flood hazard area must
obtain a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant must convert the CLOMR to a letter of map revision
based on fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
      (11)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
   (F)   Placement of structures and other development. All structures and
other development shall be constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the
minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a
minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height of floodwater.
      (1)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
      (2)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately on
the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
   (G)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All structures and other development including stream crossings
shall be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to
life and property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge
openings and other restricted sections of the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes and storage tanks located at or below
the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation.
   (H)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank or 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall
be maintained in this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the
watercourse and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be
given to planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks and enhance
aquatic resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this division (H).
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front and back lot line setbacks.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
      (3)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this chapter, material that resembles “fill” material
shall not be considered “storage” material for purposes of this division (I).
   (J)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (K)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazard.
   (L)   Backflow preventers. Backflow prevention valves should be used for all
enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
floodplain.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or any
other authorized employee of the community, shall be unlawful and shall be
referred to the prosecuting attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute all such
violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the town of not
less than $50 or more than $500 plus cost of prosecution. In default of such
payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten days.
   (B)   Each day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other
actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the
violation or noncompliance with the ordinance or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or
noncompliance within a reasonable time. Any structure constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Town Council to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such.
(Ord. 06-02-2010, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
Planning Commission
   
153.01   Purpose and creation of the Planning Commission
   
153.02   Composition and organization; qualifications, appointment and terms of
members; filling vacancies
   
153.03   Powers and duties of the Planning Commission
   
153.04   Compensation and expenses of members
   
153.05   Expenditures; gifts of Commission
   
153.06   Meetings; quorum; open meeting requirements
**** PLANNING COMMISSION ****
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND CREATION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The purpose of the creation of the Planning Commission is to promote the
orderly development of its governmental units and its environs; to promote the
health, safety, convenience and welfare of the citizens of the town; and to
plan for the future development of the community, a Municipal Planning
Commission is now created and established under the provisions of W. Va. Code
Chapter 8A.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023)
§ 153.02 COMPOSITION AND ORGANIZATION; QUALIFICATIONS, APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF
MEMBERS; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Composition.
      (1)   Planning Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the Town Council. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven
members. One member must be a member of the Town Council or its designee, and
one member must be a member of the administrative office of the Mayor or the
Mayor’s designee. The terms of membership for these two members are the same as
their terms of office.
      (2)   Of the five remaining members of the Planning Commission, the
positions must be filled to fairly represent different areas of interest,
knowledge and expertise, including, but not limited to, business, industry,
labor, government and other relevant disciplines. All appointees to the
Planning Commission shall be residents of the town, and at least three-fifths
of those appointed shall have been residents of the town for a period of at
least three years prior to confirmation.
   (B)   Terms of service. The terms of the five remaining appointees shall be
for one year, two years and three years, divided as equally as possible between
those terms. Thereafter, all members shall serve for a term of three years.
   (C)   Removal. The Town Council may establish procedures for the removal of
members of the Planning Commission for inactivity, neglect of duty or
malfeasance. The procedures must contain provisions requiring that the person
to be removed be provided with a written statement of the reasons for removal
and an opportunity to be heard on the matter.
   (D)   Filling vacancies. Should a vacancy arise on the Planning Commission
for any reason during the duration of a term, the vacancy shall be filled for
the unexpired term in the same manner as provided in this section.
   (E)   Officers. At the first meeting each year, the members of the
Commission shall elect from among its members a President and a Vice President.
      (1)   The President shall preside over all meetings of the Planning
Commission and over all public hearings and public meetings called by the
Planning Commission. The President shall transmit reports, plans,
recommendations and other documents from the Planning Commission to all
appropriate authorities or bodies. The President shall act as spokesperson for
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In the President’s absence, the Vice President shall have the power
and authority to act as President of the Planning Commission. The Vice
President shall perform additional duties and functions as may be required by
the Planning Commission.
      (3)   In the absence of both the President and Vice President, and as
long as there is a quorum, the members present shall elect a President pro
tempore, who shall only act as President for the duration of that meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023)
§ 153.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission has the following powers and duties, in accordance
with W. Va. Code § 8A-2-11, and any amendments thereto:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision for the administration of the affairs of
the Commission;
   (B)   Prescribe rules and regulations pertaining to administration,
investigations and hearings; provided, that the rules and regulations are
adopted by the governing body;
   (C)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the Commission;
   (D)   With consent from the governing body, hire employees necessary to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Planning Commission; provided,
that the governing body sets the salaries;
   (E)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all Planning Commission
proceedings;
   (F)   Record and file all bonds and contracts;
   (G)   Take responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers and
documents of the Planning Commission;
   (H)   Make recommendations to the appropriate governing body concerning
planning;
   (I)   Make an annual report to the appropriate governing body concerning the
operation of the Planning Commission and the status of planning within its
jurisdiction;
   (J)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports, ordinances and other material
relating to the activities authorized under this subchapter;
   (K)   Adopt a seal and certify all official acts;
   (L)   Invoke any legal, equitable or special remedy for the enforcement of
the provisions of this subchapter or any ordinance, rule and regulation or any
action taken thereunder;
   (M)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the appropriate governing body;
   (N)   If necessary, establish advisory committees;
   (O)   Delegate limited powers to a committee composed of one or more members
of the Commission; and
   (P)   Contract for special or temporary services and professional counsel
with the approval of the governing body. Upon request, a town prosecuting
attorney, the Town Surveyor, the Town Engineer or any other town employee may
render assistance and service to a Planning Commission without compensation.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023)
§ 153.04 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation but
shall be reimbursed for actual expenses reasonably incurred in the performance
of their official duties.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023)
§ 153.05 EXPENDITURES; GIFTS OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town shall authorize expenditures reasonably necessary to acquire:
      (1)   Suitable offices for the holding of meetings and the preservation
of plans, maps, documents and accounts; and
      (2)   Appropriate money to defray the reasonable expenses of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall have authority to accept gifts, funds and
donations which will be deposited with the Town Council in a special non-
reverting Planning Commission fund to be available for expenditures by the
Planning Commission for the purpose designated by the donor.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023)
§ 153.06 MEETINGS; QUORUM; OPEN MEETING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8A-2-7, the Planning
Commission shall meet at least quarterly and may meet more frequently at the
request of the President or by two or more members. The Planning Commission
shall make its own rules of procedure and determine the time of meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings. Notice for a special meeting must be in writing,
include the date, time, place and purpose of the special meeting. Notice for a
special meeting must be posted and sent to all members at least two business
days before the special meeting.
   (C)   Quorum. Pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8A-2-8, the Planning Commission must
have a quorum to conduct a meeting. A simple majority of Planning Commission
members present (minimum of four) constitute a quorum. No action of the
Planning Commission is official unless authorized by a majority of the members
present at a regular or properly called special meeting.
   (D)   Open meetings and public record. All Planning Commission meetings
shall be open to the public unless discussing matters that are permitted under
W. Va. Code § 6-9A-4 as an exception to the state’s open meeting regulations.
The Planning Commission shall follow all rules and regulations pertaining to
notice, setting the agenda and taking minutes for each meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2023)
CHAPTER 154: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
154.01   Code adopted by reference
   
154.02   Rezoning/variance fees
§ 154.01 CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town adopts the County Unified Development Code by reference. The
adopted code and amendments made by the town by ordinance may be cited as the
“Town of Ansted Unified Development Code.”
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
§ 154.02 REZONING/VARIANCE FEES.
   The filing fee for requesting to be rezoned or a variance of the town’s
zoning laws shall be as follows: $150 non-refundable fee for up to $100,000
proposed improvement value; $250 non-refundable fee for up to $250,000 proposed
improvement value; and $500 non-refundable fee for anything over $250,000
proposed improvement value.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   DECLARATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -   - -         Authorizing the Mayor to apply for block grants.
Res. -   11-13-1997  Authorizing Mayor to apply for Governor's partnership
                     funds.
-        9-2-2021    Authorizing the Mayor to apply to the Municipal Home Rule
                     Board to be included in the pilot program.
Res. -   6-16-2022   Authorizing Mayor to apply for block grants.
                     Agreement with county to allow county officials to enter
Res. -   2-1-2024    the town for the purpose of evaluating dilapidated
                     structures.
 
TABLE II: DECLARATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -   - -         Declaring support for county school levy.
-        11-7-2019   Recognizing the importance of the 2020 census;
                     proclamation of support.
Res. -   6-2-2022    Declaring support for veterans.
Res. -   10-18-2022  Declaring opposition to proposed constitutional amendment
                     #2.
Res. -   5-2-2024    Declaring support for the county fire levy.
Res. -   5-2-2024    Declaring support for the county law enforcement levy.
Res. -   5-2-2024    Declaring support for the county public libraries levy.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W. Va. Code Cites Code Section
W. Va. Code Cites          Code Section
Article 12 et seq.         152.03
2-2-3                      10.03
2-2-5                      10.06
2-2-8                      Chapter 10;
                           10.04
2-2-9                      10.04
2-2-10                     10.02;
                           10.03
2-2-11                     10.04
6-2-1                      31.02
6-2-11                     Chapter 31
6-9A-3                     Chapter 30
6-9A-4                     153.06
7-1-3KK                    152.01
7-1-3N                     152.01
7-1-3U                     152.03
7-1-3V                     152.01
7-4-2                      Chapter 95
7-18                       34.53;
                           110.036
7-22-1 et seq.             34.53
8-1-5A                     34.45
8-1-14                     Chapter 113
8-4-10                     Chapter 110
8-4-14                     Chapter 112
8-5-12                     Chapter 31
8-5-13                     31.30
Chapter 8, Article 9       Chapter 30
8-9-1                      Chapter 30
8-9-2                      Chapter 30
8-10-1                     Chapter 30
8-11-1                     Chapter 10
8-11-2                     Chapter 30
8-11-4                     30.05
8-11-4(b)                  Chapter 10
Chapter 8, Article 12      Chapter 30
8-12-2(11)                 Chapter 10
8-12-5(57)                 Chapter 10
8-12-16                    Chapter 30
8-13-4                     110.032
8-13-5A                    34.53;
                           50.10
8-13-6                     34.53
8-13-7                     34.53
8-13-11A                   Chapter 34
8-13C                      34.56
8-13C-1 et seq.            34.45
                           34.55;
8-13C-6                    34.56;
                           34.99
8-13C-7                    34.55
8-16                       34.59
8-16-1 et seq.             Chapter 32
Chapter 8, Article 19      Chapter 50;
                           Chapter 52
Chapter 8, Article 21      Chapter 90
8-38-1 et seq.             34.53
Chapter 8A                 153.01
8A-2-7                     153.06
8A-2-8                     153.06
8A-2-11                    153.03
8A-4-2                     152.01
8A-5-7                     152.01
8A-7-2                     152.01
8A-9-1 et seq.             96.04
11-1-1                     34.46
11-3-3A                    152.35
11-3-3a                    152.06;
                           152.21
                           34.46;
11-9                       34.57;
                           34.99
                           34.46;
11-10                      34.56;
                           34.57
11-10-11c                  34.55
11-12-3                    110.035
11-12-10                   110.037
Chapter 11, Article 12A    110.071
11-13-1 et seq.            110.070
11-14C-2                   34.51
                           34.46;
                           34.47;
11-15                      34.51;
                           34.53;
                           34.57
11-15-1 et seq.            34.45
11-15-3c                   34.51
                           34.46;
11-15A                     34.48;
                           34.53;
                           34.57
11-15A-1 et seq.           34.45
                           34.46;
11-15B                     34.48;
                           34.57
11-15B-1 et seq.           34.45
11-15B-33                  34.55
11-15B-34                  34.50
11-15B-35                  34.54
12-2 et seq.               Chapter 34
13-2A                      32.18
16-9-3                     Chapter 92
16-13-16a                  50.10
17A-1-1(ii)                71.19
17A-1-1(uu)                71.19
17A-1-1(vv)                71.19
Chapter 17C                71.17
17C-15-46                  71.17
17F-1-3                    71.16
17F-1-9(a)(1)(2)           71.19
Chapter 19, Article 4      110.073
19-16A-7                   152.03
20-7-26a                   51.99
21-9-4                     152.36
22-2-1 et seq.             51.12
22-3-1 et seq.             51.12
22-4-1 et seq.             51.12
22-6-1 et seq.             51.12
22-7-1 et seq.             51.12
22-8-1 et seq.             51.12
22-9-1 et seq.             51.12
22-10-1 et seq.            51.12
22-11-1 et seq.            51.12
22-18-1 et seq.            51.12
22A-1-1 et seq.            51.12
22C-4-10                   51.12;
                           150.46
Chapter 22C, Article 4, 23 51.12
Chapter 30, Article 13     152.03
30-42-3                    152.03;
                           152.21
30-42-10                   152.21
Chapter 31                 110.073
Chapter 38, Article 10-C   110.082
39A-1-2                    10.02
59-3-2                     96.04
Chapter 60, Article 7      110.073
Chapter 60A                130.02
61-2-1 et seq.             Chapter 31
61-3-39E                   50.10
61-8-19                    Chapter 92
62-4-16                    Chapter 35
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code                           2026 Code
Part 1, Chapter I, Article 7         31.30
Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, 1      32.15
Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, 2      32.16
Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, 4      32.17
Part 1, Chapter I, Article 9, 5      32.18
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 1   30.01
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 2   30.02
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 3   30.03
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 4   30.04
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 6   30.05
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 7   30.06
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 8   30.07
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 9   30.08
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 10  30.09
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 11  30.10
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 12  30.11
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 13  30.12
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 14  30.13
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 17  30.15
Part 1, Chapter III, Article 21, 18  30.16
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 1     34.01
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 2     34.02
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 3     34.03
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 7     34.04
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 8     34.05
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 9     34.06
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 10    34.07
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 11    34.08
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 35, 13    34.09
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 1     34.20
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 2     34.21
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 3     34.22
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 4     34.23
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 5     34.24
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 7     34.25
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 8     34.26
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 9     34.27
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 10    34.28
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 11    34.29
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 12    34.30
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 37, 13    34.31
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 1     33.01
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 2     33.02
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 3     33.03
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 4     33.04
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 5     33.05
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 6     33.06
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 7     33.07
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 8     33.08
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 9     33.09
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 10    33.09
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 11    33.10
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 12    33.11
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 13    33.12
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 14    33.13
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 15    33.13
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 16    33.14
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 17    33.15
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 18    33.16
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 19    33.17
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 20    33.18
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 21    33.19
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 22    33.20
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 23    33.21
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 24    33.22
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 25    33.23
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 26    33.24
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 27    33.25
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 28    33.26
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 29    33.27
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 30    33.28
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 31    33.29
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 32    33.30
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 33    33.31
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 34    33.32
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 35    33.33
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 39, 36    33.34
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 41, 1     31.01
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, 1     31.15
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, 2     31.15
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, 3     31.15
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, 4     31.15
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, 5     31.15
Part 1, Chapter V, Article 47, 6     31.15
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 1   35.01
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 3   35.03
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 4   35.04
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 5   35.05
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 6   35.06
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 12  35.07
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 13  35.08
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 14  35.09
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 15  35.10
Part 1, Chapter VII, Article 71, 16  35.11
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 1      110.001
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 2      110.002
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 3      110.003
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 4      110.004
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 5      110.005
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 6      110.006
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 7      110.007
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 8      110.008
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 9      110.009
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 10     110.010
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 11     110.011
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 12     110.012
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 13     110.013
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 14     110.014
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 15     110.015
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 1, 99     110.999
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 3, 1      110.030
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 3, 2      110.030
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, 1      110.031
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, 2      110.031
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, 3      110.031
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, 4      110.031
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 5, 5      110.031
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 7, 1      110.032
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 7, 2      110.032
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 9, 1      110.033
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 11, 1     110.034
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 11, 2     110.034
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 11, 3     110.034
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 13, 1     110.035
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 13, 2     110.035
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, 1     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, 2     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, 3     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, 4     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 27, 5     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 29, 1     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 29, 2     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 29, 3     110.037
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 31, 1     110.038
Part 7, Chapter I, Article 33, 1     110.040
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 1   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 2   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 3   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 4   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 5   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 6   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 7   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 8   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 9   110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 10  110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 11  110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 12  110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 13  110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 14  110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 41, 15  110.055
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 1   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 2   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 3   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 4   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 5   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 6   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 7   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 8   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 9   110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 45, 10  110.056
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, 1   110.057
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, 2   110.057
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, 3   110.057
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, 4   110.057
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, 5   110.057
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 47, 6   110.057
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 1   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 2   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 3   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 4   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 5   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 6   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 7   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 8   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 9   110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 10  110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 11  110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 12  110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 13  110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 14  110.058
Part 7, Chapter III, Article 49, 15  110.058
Part 7, Chapter V, Article 73        110.070
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 1, 1      151.01
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 1, 2      151.02
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 1, 3      151.03
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 5, 1      151.15
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 5, 2      151.16
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 1      151.30
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 2      151.31
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 3      151.32
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 4      151.33
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 5      151.34
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 6      151.35
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 7      151.36
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 9, 99     151.99
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 1     151.50
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 2     151.51
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 3     151.52
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 4     151.52
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 5     151.53
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 6     151.54
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 7     151.55
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 8     151.56
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 9     151.57
Part 9, Chapter I, Article 11, 10    151.58
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 1   51.01
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 2   51.02
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 14  51.03
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 15  51.04
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 16  51.05
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 17  51.06
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 20  51.07
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 21  51.08
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 22  51.09
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 23  51.10
Part 9, Chapter III, Article 29, 25  51.11
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 1     52.01
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 2     52.02
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 9     52.03
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 10    52.04
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 11    52.05
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 12    52.06
Part 9, Chapter V, Article 43, 99    52.99
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 61      90.01
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 1   90.15
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 2   90.16
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 3   90.17
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 4   90.18
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 5   90.19
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 6   90.20
Part 9, Chapter VII, Article 65, 7   90.21
Part 11, Chapter I, Article 3, 99    91.99
Part 11, Chapter V, Article 35, 3    91.01
Part 11, Chapter V, Article 35, 99   91.99
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, 1  91.15
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, 2  91.15
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, 3  91.15
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 41, 4  91.15
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, 1  91.16
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, 2  91.16
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, 16 91.16
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, 17 91.16
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 43, 99 91.99
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 1  91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 2  91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 3  91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 4  91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 5  91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 13 91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 14 91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 15 91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 16 91.17
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 47, 99 91.99
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 1  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 2  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 3  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 5  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 6  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 7  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 8  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 9  91.18
Part 11, Chapter VII, Article 49, 99 91.99
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, 1     150.01
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, 2     150.01
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, 3     150.01
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 1, 5     150.01
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 1     150.15
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 2     150.15
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 3     150.15
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 4     150.16
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 5     150.17
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 6     150.18
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 7     150.19
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 8     150.20
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 3, 99    150.99
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 5        150.02
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 1     150.35
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 2     150.36
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 3     150.37
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 4     150.37
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 6     150.38
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 7     150.39
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 8     150.40
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 9     150.41
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 10    150.42
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 11    150.43
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 12    150.44
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 13    150.45
Part 15, Chapter I, Article 9, 14    150.99
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        - -         TSO Table II
-        11-13-1997  TSO Table I
-        6-2-2022    35.25
-        6-2-2022    TSO Table II
-        6-16-2022   TSO Table I
-        10-6-2022   93.01
-        10-18-2022  TSO Table II
-        2-1-2024    TSO Table I
-        4-19-2024   95.01
-        5-2-2024    TSO Table II
-        5-2-2024    TSO Table II
-        5-2-2024    TSO Table II
-        8-7-2025    32.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       53.001;
                       53.002;
                       53.015—
                       53.021;
                       53.035;
-          - -         53.036;
                       53.050—
                       53.055;
                       53.070—
                       53.074;
                       53.999
                       152.01—
                       152.07;
                       152.20—
06-02-2010 - -         152.24;
                       152.35;
                       152.36;
                       152.99
-          2-11-1993   TSO Table III
-          2-11-1993   TSO Table III
-          4-4-2002    91.16
-          3-11-2004   51.24;
                       150.46
-          6-9-2005    110.036;
                       110.999
                       110.070—
-          9-1-2005    110.089;
                       110.999
-          2-2-2006    91.16
-          4-6-2006    150.60—
                       150.65
-          3-1-2007    91.16
-          2-7-2008    96.01—
                       96.06
-          2-7-2008    154.01
-          3-6-2008    110.070
-          11-6-2008   91.16
-          4-2-2015    91.16
-          6-6-2019    70.01;
                       130.01
-          6-6-2019    110.070
                       50.01—
-          9-2-2021    50.09;
                       50.99
-          9-2-2021    TSO Table I
-          11-18-2021  110.070
-          12-2-2021   32.01
-          12-2-2021   94.01
                       34.45—
-          12-20-2021  34.60;
                       34.99
-          7-7-2022    154.02
-          12-1-2022   71.01;
                       71.02
                       94.15—
-          12-1-2022   94.21;
                       94.99
-          2-2-2023    92.01—
                       92.04
-          3-2-2023    130.02;
                       130.99
-          3-2-2023    153.01—
                       153.06
-          3-7-2024    111.01—
                       111.04
                       71.15—
-          1-2-2025    71.19;
                       71.99
-          9-4-2025    150.03
                       150.60—
-          9-4-2025    150.65;
                       150.99
                      
 
