CITY OF PENNSBORO, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through 1--2020
 
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
CHARTER
   THE CITY OF PENNSBORO
   ENROLLED BILL
   (H.B. No. 180)AN ACT to incorporate the city of Pennsboro, in the county of
Ritchie, state of West Virginia, and fixing its corporate limits and
prescribing and defining the powers and duties of said city.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of West Virginia:
Section 1.
   That the inhabitants of so much of the county of Ritchie as is within the
bounds prescribed by section two of this act, and their successors, shall be
and remain and they are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate, by the
name of “The City of Pennsboro,” and as such, and by that name shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and may contract and be contracted with,
sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered unto, and may
purchase, take, receive, hold and use goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
and choses in action, or any interest, right or estate therein, either for the
proper use of said city, or in trust for the benefit of any person or
corporation therein; and the same may grant, sell, convey, transfer, let and
assign, pledge, mortage, charge and encumber in any case, and in any manner, in
which it would be lawful for a private individual so to do, subject to the
limitations and provisions of the constitution of the sate; and may have and
use a common seal and alter and renew the same at pleasure; and generally shall
have all the rights, franchises, capacities and powers appertaining to like
corporations in this state, and shall have and succeed to all powers,
franchises and immunities, rights and privileges, which were conferred upon or
belonged or appertained to the town of Pennsboro by virtue of any act or acts
of the general assembly of the state of Virginia or of the legislature of this
state heretofore passed; and shall have all the rights, privileges, capacities
and powers provided by chapter forty-seven of the code of West Virginia, as
contained in the edition of the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety-
nine, and for which provision is not herein otherwise expressly made.
Sec. 2.
   The corporation limits and boundary of said city of Pennsboro shall be as
follows:
Beginning at a pine tree, corner of Brown’s heirs and Saddler’s lands, N. 15°
30’ E. 47 poles to jack oak at Doyles corner; N. 43° 30’ W. 77 poles to white
oak, Wells knob; N. 55° E. 46 poles to jack oak in Wells & McDougal corner; N.
20° W. 46 poles to persimmon in Well’s fence; N. 3° 30’ E. 43 poles to sycamore
at McDougal’s foot bridge; N. 11° W. 663 poles to a post corner McDougal’s
fence; N. 89° 30’ W. 66 poles to pine tree in Geor. Boyce line; N. 84° W. 127
poles to white oak in Sill land near where Monroe lives; S. 63° W. 47 poles to
oak near Bonds creek road; S. 86° 30’ W. 166 poles to corner in Wilson and Sill
lands; S. 21° W. 138’ poles to jack oak in woods in M. H. Davis land; S. 44°
30’ W. 160 poles to telephone pole on Kelly’s point ; S. 51° 30’ W. 38 poles to
telephone pole near pike at fair grounds; S. 62° 15’ W. 12 poles to west corner
post at pike entrance to fair grounds; S. 18° 15’ W. 38 poles to black walnut
by fair ground fence; S. 13° 30’ W. 32 poles to west end fair ground fence; S.
63° E. 17 poles to sugar corner fair ground fence; N. 70° E. 30 poles to post
in fair ground fence; N. 89° E. 165 poles to stone in Thomas land; N. 69° E.
157.5 poles to stone in Wilson’s field; S. 57° E. 40 poles to stone in Wilson’s
field; S. 56° E. 48 poles to Flesher’s line; S . 23° W. 30 poles to Flesher’s
corner; S. 73° 30’ 20 poles to Fleshe’s & Taylor’s corner ; N. 22° 30’ E. 24
poles to a stone in Flesher’s line; S. 56° E. 7.7 poles to persimmon in
Taylor’s land; S. 63° E. 47 poles to stone in Taylor’s land; S. 89° 30’ 89
poles to stone in Taylor’s land; N. 1° W. 78 poles to white oak on ridge in
Brown’s line; N. 12° 30’ W. 12.4 poles to pine at beginning.
Section. 3.
   All general and special laws of the state of West Virginia, governing cities
and towns and now applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this
act, shall apply to and govern the city of Pennsboro. All by-laws, ordinances
and resolutions lawfully passed and in force in the town of Pennsboro under its
former organization, and not inconsistent herewith, shall remain in force
throughout the city of Pennsboro until altered or repealed by the council
elected under the provisions of this act. All rights and property heretofore
vested in said town of Pennsboro are continued and preserved and its title and
property vested in said city of Pennsboro and no right or liability either in
favor or against the said town of Pennsboro at the time this act takes effect,
and no suit or prosecution of any kind shall be effected by such change, unless
otherwise provided for in this act.
Sec. 4.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Charter of the City of Pennsboro
to the contrary, beginning with the term of office of the office of Mayor of
said City beginning on the first day of July, 1983, the term of office for the
office of Mayor shall be four (4) years, the initial such term commencing on
the first day of July, 1983, and ending on the 30th day of June, 1987, and each
successive term thereafter shall likewise be of four (4) years duration. In the
event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor during any such term, the successor
appointed in the fashion prescribed by the general law shall complete the
remainder of the term for which his predecessor was elected in the event that
the remainder of such term shall not exceed two (2) years duration, but if such
vacancy occurs at a time in which more than two (2) years remain in such term,
a special election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
May of the odd-numbered year which shall constitute the second year of such
term, and the person elected at such election shall take office on the first
day of July immediately following, and serve as Mayor for the remaining two (2)
year portion of the four (4) year term for which his predecessor was elected.
Any interim vacancies shall be filled by appointment in the fashion prescribed
by the general law.
Section 5 - Election of Municipal Officers.
   A.   The offices of Mayor and Member of Council shall be filled in the
fashion set out in this Section 5 of the Charter of The City of Pennsboro and
this Section 5 shall supersede any other provision of the Charter at variance
with the terms hereof.
   B.   Beginning with calendar year 2010, the primary election conducted by
the State of West Virginia on a biennial basis shall also be the regular
municipal general election for the office of Mayor and Member of Council of The
City of Pennsboro and the election laws of the State of West Virginia shall, to
the maximum extent possible, be the election laws of The City of Pennsboro.
   C.   The voter registration rolls for the State of West Virginia and the
County of Ritchie thereof shall, for municipal election purposes, be the
official voter registration rolls for The City of Pennsboro with respect to
registered voters of The City of Pennsboro.
   D.   The term of office of the Mayor of The City of Pennsboro now scheduled
to end on June 30, 2011, shall end on June 30, 2010, or as soon thereafter as
his or her successor shall have been elected, qualified and take office.
Thenceforth, the term of the Office of Mayor shall be for four (4) years, or
until the then-current incumbent’s successor shall have been elected, qualified
and take office.
   E.   The term of Members of Council of The City of Pennsboro now scheduled
to end on June 30, 2011, shall end on June 30, 2010, or as soon thereafter as
his or her successor shall have been elected, qualified and take office. The
person or persons elected at the municipal election held in 2010 shall be for
four (4) years, or until the then-current incumbent’s successor shall have been
elected, qualified and take office.
   F.   The term of Members of Council of The City of Pennsboro now scheduled
to end on June 30, 2013, shall end on June 30, 2012, or as soon thereafter as
his or her successor shall have been elected, qualified and take office. The
person or persons elected at the municipal election held in 2012 shall be for
four (4) years, or until the then-current incumbent’
   G.   Petitions of candidacy for election to the Office of Mayor or Member of
Council are hereby abolished and superseded by a declaration of candidacy in
the form used in elections for state, county or district offices in the State
of West Virginia, and there shall be no filing fee required to initiate or
maintain candidacy for such offices.
   H.   All candidates for the Office of Mayor or Member of Council shall run
at large throughout The City of Pennsboro and without affiliation with any
political party.
   I.   Any vacancy in the Office of Mayor shall be filled by the Member of
Council appointed as the superintendent of the department of accounts and
finance for the remainder of the then-incumbent Mayor’s term; provided,
however, that if the vacancy shall occur earlier than January 1 of any year in
which there is a regular municipal election and there shall be more than two
years left in the term of the then-incumbent Mayor, the remainder of the term
shall be filled at the next regular municipal election and the Member of
Council appointed as superintendent of the department of accounts and finance
shall serve as interim Mayor until the reminder of the then-current term shall
have been filled by election and the successful candidate shall have qualified
and taken office.
   J.   Any vacancy in the Office or Member of Council shall be filled by
appointment of the remaining Members of Council and Mayor for the remainder of
the term thus vacated; provided, however, that if the vacancy shall occur
earlier than January 1 of any year in which there is a regular municipal
election and there shall be more than two years left in the term of the then-
incumbent Member of Council, the remainder of the term shall be filled at the
next regular municipal election and the Member of Council so appointed shall
serve as interim Member of Council until the reminder of the then-current term
shall have been filled by election and the successful candidate shall have
qualified and taken office.
   K.   In any election in which full four-year terms of Member of Council
shall be held and in which an election is being held to fill the remainder of
an unexpired term of a Member of Council whose seat shall have become vacant,
all candidates for Member of Council shall run at large and without designation
as to full-term or unexpired-term and the candidate or candidates having the
highest number of votes shall first fill the full-term seats and then the
candidate or candidates with the next highest number of votes shall fill the
unexpired term seat(s).
(Ord. passed 11-16-2009)
Sec. 6.
   Said city shall be governed by a council, consisting of the mayor and four
councilmen chosen as provided in this act, each of whom shall have the right to
vote on all questions coming before the council. Three members of the council
shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative of three members shall be
necessary to adopt any motion, resolution or ordinance, or pass any measure.
Upon every vote the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded, and every
motion, resolution or ordinance shall be reduced to writing and read before the
vote is taken thereon. The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council;
he shall have no power to veto any measure, but every resolution or ordinance
passed by council must be signed by the mayor, or by three councilmen, and be
recorded before the same shall be in force.
Sec. 7.
   The council shall have and possess, and the council and its members shall
exercise all executive, legislative and judicial powers conferred upon cities,
towns and villages by the general law of the state and by this act.
   The executive and administrative powers, authority and duties in said city
shall be distributed into and among five departments as follows:
      1.   Department of public affairs.
      2.   Department of accounts and finance.
      3.   Department of public safety.
      4.   Department of streets, parks, public improvements and public
property.
      5.   Department of waterworks and sewers.
   The council shall determine the powers and duties to be performed by, and
assign them to the appropriate department, shall prescribe the powers and
duties of officers and employees, may assign particular offices and employees
to one or more of the departments; may require an officer or employee to
perform duties in two or more departments; and may make such other rules and
regulations as may be necessary or proper for the efficient and economical
conduct of the business of the city.
Sec. 8.
   The mayor shall be superintendent of the department of public affairs and
ex-officio city judge and the council shall, at the first regular meeting after
election of its members, designate by majority vote, one councilman to be
superintendent of the department of accounts and finance, one to be
superintendent of the department of public safety, one to be superintendent of
the department of streets, parks, public improvements and public property, and
one to be superintendent of the department of waterworks and sewers; but such
designation shall be changed whenever it appear~ that the public service would
be benefited thereby.
   The council may, at the first meeting, or as soon as practicable thereafter,
elect by a majority vote the following officers; a clerk, solicitor, city civil
engineer, city physician, chief of police, chief of fire department, city
collector, street commissioner, and such other officers and assistants as shall
be provided for by ordinance and necessary to the proper and efficient conduct
of the affairs of the city. Any officer, assistant or employee elected,
appointed, or employed, may be removed at any time by a vote of a majority of
the members of the council, under such regulations as council may prescribe.
Sec. 9.
   The council shall have power from time to time to create, fill and
discontinue offices and employments other than herein prescribed, according to
their judgment of the needs of the city, and may, by resolution or otherwise,
prescribe, limit or change the compensation of such officers or employees.
Section 10:
   The council shall have authority to set the salary or compensation of the
mayor and council by ordinance; provided that no mayor or councilman may have
their salary increased or decreased during their term of office.
   Every other officer of assistant shall receive such salary or compensation
as the council shall by ordinance provide payable in equal monthly
installments.
   The salary or compensation of all other employees of said city shall be
fixed by the council, and shall be payable monthly or at such shorter periods
as the council may determine.
Sec. 11.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at such times and on such days
as may be established by resolution of Council. Special meetings may be called
from time to time by the Mayor or by any two Councilmen. The Mayor shall
preside at all meetings of Council and shall supervise the work of all
departments and report to the Council or its action all matters requiring
attention from any department. The superintendent of the department of accounts
and finance shall preside at Council and shall assume the duties of Mayor in
the event of a vacancy in office of Mayor, or the absence or the inability of
the Mayor to perform the functions of that office.
Sec. 12.
   Every ordinance or resolution appropriating money or ordering any street
improvement or sewer, or making or authorizing the making of any contract, or
granting any or public places in the city for any purpose, shall be complete in
franchise or right to occupy or use the streets, highways, bridges the form in
which it is finally passed, and remain on file with the city clerk for public
inspection at least one week before the final passage or adoption thereof. No
franchise or right to occupy or use the streets, highways, bridges or public
places in said city shall be granted, renewed or extended, except by ordinance.
No franchise shall be granted for a period exceeding thirty years, and no
amendment or addition thereto shall extend beyond the termination of the
original franchise.
Sec. 13.
   No officer or employee of said city shall accept or receive, directly or
indirectly, from any person, firm or corporation operating within the
territorial limits of said city, any interurban railway, street railway, gas
works, water works, electric light or power plant, heating plant, telegraph
line or exchange, or other business using or operating under a public
franchise, any frank, free pass, free ticket or free service, or accept or
receive directly or indirectly, from any such person, firm or corporation, any
other service upon terms more favorable than is granted to the public
generally. Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be a
misdemeanor, and every such contract or agreement shall be void.
   Such prohibition of free transportation shall not apply to policemen or
firemen in uniform; nor shall any free service to city officials heretofore
provided by any franchise or ordinance be effected by this section.
Sec. 14.
   Council may create by appointment, a civil service board, consisting of
three residents of the city, whose duty it shall be to examine all applicants
for positions in the departments of police, fire, and such other departments as
may be ordained, including the chiefs of such department; and shall define the
terms and prescribe the duties of the members of said board. All appointments
to said departments shall be made from applicants recommended by said board,
and when appointed, shall be removed only for cause.
Sec, 15.
   The council may each month print a pamphlet from a detailed itemized
statement of all receipts and expenses of the city and a summary of its
proceedings during the preceding month, and furnish printed copies thereof to
the state library, the weekly newspapers of the city, and to persons who shall
apply therefor at the office of the city clerk. At the end of each year the
council shall cause a full and complete examination of all books and accounts
of the city to be made by competent accountants and shall publish the results
of such examination in the manner above provided for publication of statements
of monthly expenditures.
Sec. 16.
    If, at the beginning of the term of office of the first council elected in
said city under the provisions of this act, the appropriations for the
expenditures of the Town of Pennsboro for the current fiscal year have been
made, the council of the city of Pennsboro shall have power by ordinance, to
revise, repeal or change said appropriations, and to make new and other and
different appropriations.
Sec. 17.
   In the construction of this act the following rules shall be observed,
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent, or
repugnant to the context.
      1.   When an officer, or officers, is named in any law referred to in
this act it shall when applied to said city be construed to mean the officer or
officers having the same functions or duties under the provisions of this act,
or under ordinances passed under authority thereof.
      2.   The word “franchise” shall include every special privilege in the
streets, highways and public places of the city, whether granted by the state
or the city, which does not belong to citizens generally by common right.
      3.   The word “electors” shall be construed to mean persons qualified to
vote for elective offices at regular municipal elections.
Sec. 18.
   Council shall have the right to levy and collect taxes on property, real and
personal, and to grant licenses, and to assess and collect taxes on such
licenses as are taxable under the laws of the State of West Virginia and not to
exceed in amount and rate the tax on such licenses imposed by the State of West
Virginia.
Sec. 19.
   The Council of the city may cause any street or alley or part thereof, to be
paved with cobblestone, brick, concrete or other suitable material, curbing and
suitable sidewalks laid, and a sewer or sewers to be constructed therein, or to
have such paving done without the construction of such sewer or sewers, or a
sewer or sewers constructed without such paving under such regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this section as shall be fixed by council,
upon the lowest and best terms to be obtained by the council by advertising for
bids or proposals therefor, and the whole cost thereof (which cost shall
include the cost and expense of preliminary and other survey, of printing and
publishing all notices required to be published in relation thereto, and the
cost of construction) shall be assesed to and paid by the owners of the lots or
fractional parts of lots abutting or bounding on that part of the street so
improved, paved or sewered and against the said lots or fractional parts of
lots in proportion to the number of feet frontage owned by each. Provided, that
the cost of paving and sewering intersections of streets and public alleys, and
the proportion for lots, or parts of lots, or property against which no
assessment can be legally made shall be assessed to and paid by the city; and,
provided further, in case of a street or public alley occupied by street car
tracks or other railway, the cost of paving the space between the rails, and
for two feet additional outside each rail, shall be assessed to and paid by the
street car or other railway company.
   The amount assessed against such abutting lots or fractional parts of lots
to the said abutting property owners, the city and street car or other railway
company as aforesaid, respectively, shall be paid in ten payments as follows:
that is to say, one-tenth of said amount, together with the interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum from the acceptance of the work by the city on
the whole assessment, shall be paid to the city on or before the first day of
May next after the work is accepted, and a like one-tenth, together with
interest for one year upon the whole amount remaining unpaid on or before the
first day of May in each succeeding year thereafter until all has been paid,
and each installment shall bear interest at the rate of six per centum per
annum from the date of its maturity, and moreover, to each installment
remaining unpaid on the days herein specified for the payment thereof a penalty
of ten per centum per annum of said installment shall be added and collected by
the city: Provided, however, that any abutting property owner, the city, or
street car or other railway company, against whom or against whose property,
said assessments have been made, shall have the right at any time after such
assessments shall have been certified to the superintendent of the department
of accounts and finance for collection, as hereinafter provided, to anticipate
any or all of such assessments and shall be allowed to pay the face of said
assessments with interest only to the time of payment.
   (a)   The sum or sums of money so assessed, together with the interest and
penalty aforesaid, for paving or sewering, or other said improvements, shall be
a lien upon the lots or fractional parts of lots and in case of a street car or
other railway company, upon its tracks for the distance of said improvement,
from the date of acceptance of said work by the city and said lien shall have
priority over all other liens except those for taxes due to the state and shall
be on a parity with the taxes and assessments due the city; Provided, however,
such assessments shall after six months from the date of the acceptance of said
work cease to constitute liens against said property as against creditors of
the owners thereof or purchasers thereof for value without actual notice of
such liens, unless within said six months a statement of said liens, certified
as hereinafter provided, shall be filed for record in the office of the clerk
of the county court of the county in which said property is situated.
   (b)   Immediately upon the acceptance of the work by the city, the clerk
shall make out bills for the sums of money assessed as aforesaid against the
property owners aforesaid, and shall at the same time make and certify a
statement of the assessments aforesaid in which shall be given the location of
the real estate affected, the name of the owner, the date of the acceptance of
said work by the city, and the amount of the assessment, and it shall be
sufficient description of the location of said real estate to describe it as
abounding or abutting upon said improvement included between the terminal of
said improvement, or by the description by which it is described on the land
books of the county in which said lots are situated, and shall cause said
statement to be immediately recorded in the office of the clerk of the county
court of the county in which such property is situate, and it shall be and it
is hereby made the duty of said county clerk, to record said statement in the
trust deed books in the name of the city and also in the name of each person
against whose property said assessments appear therein, and said clerk shall be
paid for recording said statement the same fees as for recording deeds of
trust. And said bills for said assessment shall be charged to the
superintendent of the department of accounts and finance and immediately
certified and delivered to him for collection.
   (c)   Upon default being made in the payment of any installment of the
assessments aforesaid, the same shall be immediately reported to the council by
the superintendent of the department of accounts and finance, and the council
shall forthwith refer the same to such officer as it may deem expedient, for
collection, and payment of said delinquent installments, with the interest and
the penalty aforesaid, may be enforced in all respects as provided for the
collection of city taxes, or the lien aforesaid may be enforced by a suit in
equity in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction thereof, and
the said delinquent assessments or any installment thereof, may be collected
from the person against whom the same were assessed by action at law before any
court or a justice of the peace having jurisdiction thereof.
   (d)   Immediately upon the completion and acceptance of any of the work
aforesaid, constructed by virtue of this section, the council shall direct the
clerk to cause to be prepared a notice which shall name and describe the
location of the street or alley upon which said work shall have been
constructed; give the names of the owners of each lot or fractional part of lot
abutting or abounding upon said street or alley, and also the name of any
street car or other railroad company having tracks upon said street or alley,
where assessed for paving, if known, and if the name or names of the owner or
owners of any lot or fractional part of lot, or of such street car or other
railway company, are unknown, such lot or fractional part of lot, or of such
street car or other railway company, are unknown, such lot or fractional part
of lot, and the location of the paving assessed to such street car or other
railway company, shall be described with reasonable certainty so that the same
may be identified. The number of feet that each lot or a fractional part of lot
abuts upon said street or alley, the street or alley intersections and all
abutting city property and property not liable to assessments, and the number
of square feet, or yards to be paid for by said street car or other railway
company, also the amount assessed against each lot or fractional part of lot,
and also the a mount assessed against the city, as well as the amount assessed
against any street car or other railway company, shall be stated. Said notice
shall cite all owners of lots or fractional parts of lots abutting upon the
streets or alleys aforesaid, and also said street car or other railway company,
to appear before the council at a regular meeting thereof within thirty days
from the first publication thereof and show cause, if any they can, why the
assessments aforesaid should not become final, which notice shall be published
once a week for two successive weeks in one or more newspapers of general
circulation published in said city, and affidavits of the publishers of such
notices showing the publishing thereof as herein provided, shall be recorded in
the minutes of the council at their next regular meeting. The council shall,
upon the request of any one or more of the owners of said lots or fractional
parts of lots, or of said street car or other railway company, appoint a day
for hearing the grievances of said owner or owners, street car or other railway
company, and may correct or amend any assessment made against them or any one
of them for good cause shown. The clerk shall give notice to all persons
claiming to be injured by said assessment of the time and place of hearing said
matters, which meeting shall be held within ten days after the expiration of
the thirty days mentioned in said notice. The council may adjourn the hearing
from time to time. In case any owner or owners of abutting property, or street
car or other railway company, fail to complain of any damage or injury they may
have, or may suffer, by reason of the assessments aforesaid and shall fail to
appear for the purpose of having the same corrected, the assessments as to them
as laid shall be final, and the said assessments shall then be recorded in the
book in which the plans, specifications, profiles and estimates are recorded
under the provisions hereof and next following the same therein. The finding of
said council shall be conclusive. The rights conferred by this section are
cumulative and shall not be exhausted as to any particular street or alley by
reason of having been once exercised.
   (e)   Whenever it is deemed expedient by the council to provide for paving,
sidewalks, curbing or sewers in or upon any of the streets or alleys of the
city by the issue and sale of bonds of the city, it shall by resolution entered
of record on the minutes of its proceedings so declare and thereupon the city
shall be and is hereby empowered and authorized to issue its bonds for the
purpose of providing for paving, laying sidewalks, curbing the streets and
alleys of the city and of constructing sewers for the purpose of drainage of
said city, in anticipation of special assessments to be made upon the property
abutting upon the streets and alleys so improved, and upon street car and other
railway companies occupying the said streets or alleys with tracks, and such
bonds may be in such amount as shall be sufficient to pay the entire cost and
expense of said improvements for which such special assessments are levied and
said city is also authorized to sell said bonds as a whole issue at one time or
in separate lots or parcels from time to time as the council may deem
advisable; provided, that the price for which they are sold shall not be below
the par value of said bonds; said bonds shall be payable not to exceed ten
years from the date of the issue thereof and shall bear interest at not to
exceed six per centum per annum, payable semi-annually, and in the issuance and
sale of said bonds the city shall be governed by all the restrictions and
limitations of the constitution of this state and so far as not in conflict
with the provisions of this section by the restrictions and limitations of this
state with respect to the issuance and sale of other bonds; and the
assessments, as paid and provided for in this section, shall be applied to the
liquidation of said bonds and the interest thereon and to that end paid to the
trustees of the sinking fund of the city to be by them invested for the best
advantage of the city, anything in any general or special statute of the state
notwithstanding to the contrary and if by reason of penalties collected with
the delinquent installments there may be any balance after the payment of said
bonds and all accrued interest and costs, the said balance shall be turned into
the city treasury to the credit of a fund for street improvements for said city
and used for no other purpose; provided, that the city shall not by the s ale
or issue of such bonds cause the aggregate of its debts of every kind
whatsoever to exceed five per centum of the value of the taxable property
therein; and provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed as authorizing said city to become indebted in any other manner or
for any other purpose to an amount including the existing indebtedness in the
aggregate exceeding two and one-half per centum of the value of the taxable
property therein (so long as are inforce the provisions of chapter fifty-one of
the acts of one thousand nine hundred and five), except for the purpose of
constructing paving, curbing, sewers and sidewalks in and upon the streets and
alleys of said city, as provided in this section; nor shall said city make such
issue and sale without at the same time providing for the collection of a
direct annual tax sufficient to pay annually the interest on such debt and
principal thereof within and not exceeding ten years.
   All of the assessments, interest and penalties thereon collected from the
abutting property owners on account of the grading, paving, sewering or
otherwise improving the streets and alleys of the city, under the provisions of
this section, shall annually be applied to the annual tax required to pay the
interest on such debt and such principal within and not exceeding ten years;
and in the event that the assessments, interest and penalties so collected
should not amount to a sum sufficient to pay annually the interest on such debt
and the principal thereof within and not exceeding ten years, then the council
shall collect so much of said levy as will pay annually the interest on such
debt and the principal thereof within and not exceeding ten years.
   (f)   It is especially provided that no bonds shall be issued under the
provisions of this section, unless and until the question of issuing said bonds
shall have first been submitted to a vote of the people of the city and shall
have received three-fifths of all votes cast at said election for or against
the same. The council may provide by ordinance for an election every year, at
which the question shall be submitted to the people as to whether the city
shall be authorized to issue bonds for the purpose and under the provisions of
this section, to an amount not to exceed in the ensuing year the amount
recommended by said ordinance for said ensuing year; but the ordinance
providing for said election need not specify in detail the location of the
improvements contemplated to be paid for during the ensuing year out of said
aggregate issue authorized for said year, and notwithstanding the provisions of
sections two, three and six of chapter forty-seven-a of the code, it shall be
sufficient description of the purpose for which said election is held if the
ordinance calling the same shall cite that it authorizes the council to issue
bonds for the purpose of paving, curbing, laying sidewalks or sewering the
streets and alleys of said city, at such times as the council shall see fit
during the ensuing year ending on the ________ day of _______ 19____, to an
amount not exceeding in the aggregate during said year the sum of $_____, and
when the council shall have once been authorized by a vote of the people to
issue bonds for the said purpose and to a sum not to exceed the amount set
forth in the ordinance calling the said election, no further election shall be
necessary for the issuing of bonds during ensuing year up to the amount
stipulated in said ordinance calling said election, but the council shall from
time to time during the ensuing year by ordinance authorize the issue of said
bonds, in such sums, and for the improvements of such streets and alleys as to
it may seem best, providing the requirements of this section are complied with.
The aggregate amount of bonds authorized by said annual election shall not be
exceeded during said year unless and except the same be authorized by a special
election held at a subsequent time in said year and duly called as provided for
the calling of the annual bond election.
   The provisions of chapter forty-seven-a of the code concerning bond
elections, shall, so far as they are not in conflict with the provisions of
this section, apply to the annual bond elections and special bond elections
herein provided for.
   (g)   Whenever it is deemed expedient by the council to provide for paving,
curbing, sidewalks, or sewers, or any other improvements on any streets or
alleys of the city in whole or in part, either by the issue of bonds
theretofore authorized as herein provided or by the appropriation of funds in
the city treasury not otherwise appropriated, it shall first, having on file in
the city clerk’s office plans, specifications, profiles, and estimates of the
proposed improvements, showing the proposed grade of the street or alley after
completion with reference to the abutting property, declare by resolution the
expediency of the work; and said plans, specifications, profiles estimates
shall be open to public inspection.
   Said resolution shall determine the general nature of the work, the method
of paying for the same, whether by an appropriation from the funds in the
treasury not otherwise appropriated or whether or not the bonds theretofore as
in this section provided should be issued and sold; said resolution shall be
complete in the form in which it is finally passed and remain on file with the
city clerk for public inspection one week before the final passage or adoption
thereof. Immediately upon the filing of said resolution with the clerk, a copy
thereof shall be published once in some newspaper of general circulation, in
the city, and affidavits of the publishers of said newspapers, showing the
publication, with a copy of the notice attached, shall be spread upon the
minutes of the meeting of the council at which said resolution is passed or
adopted. Said resolution shall be posted at the front door of the building
where the council holds its meetings on the day it is filed as aforesaid, and
affidavit thereof shall be recorded in the minutes of the council at the next
regular meeting.
   Until said resolution is finally passed, the council shall hear all persons
interested in relation thereto at any regular meeting and if it decides to
proceed with the improvement, it shall pass said resolution. And then said
council may by resolution correct or amend said plans, specifications, profiles
and estimates and approve and adopt them as so corrected, or as they were in
their original form as to it may seem proper; and said plans, specifications,
profiles and estimates shall be forthwith filed with the city clerk and by him
recorded and attested in a well bound and permanent record book to be kept in
his office. Both resolutions shall be in effect when finally passed.
   The council may then adopt and pass ordinances for said purposes which shall
provide generally the character of the work, make appropriation for the payment
thereof, fix the time of payment of assessments therefor and the manner of
giving notice of said assessments and correcting the same and providing
advertisements for bids for said work; shall also set forth the streets and
alleys upon which the property is to be assessed for said improvements, the
general character of materials which may be bid upon therefor, the mode of
payment and a reference to the resolution theretofore passed for said
improvements giving the date of passage, and a statement of the intention of
council to proceed therewith in accordance with said resolution and in
accordance with the plans, specifications, estimates and profiles provided for
such improvements.
   In any case where the council has determined to pay for any of such
improvements out of the funds in the city treasury not otherwise appropriated,
and not by the issuance and sale of bonds, said ordinance shall be passed and
become effective as provided in section twelve of this chapter; but in the
event it has been determined to issue and sell bonds for the payment thereof,
the said ordinance shall not be effective so as to permit any contract to be
made or work to be done thereunder until, in addition to the compliance with
the provisions of section twelve, the fact that the proceeds of the sale of
said bonds have been received by the city shall be certified by the
superintendent of the department of accounts and finance and such certificate
entered upon the minutes of the council.
   (h)   When the whole or any portion of the improvement authorized by this
section passes through or by a public market, space, park, cemetry, structure
for the fire department, water works, school building, infirmary, market house,
work house, hospital, house of refuge, bridge, gas works, public prison, church
or any other public structure or public grounds, within said city, and
belonging to said city, or to the county, state, board of education, or any
church association or eleemosynary institution, the council shall direct the
proper proportion of the cost and expenses of the improvements to be certified
to the clerk of the county court of the county wherein said city is situated
and the same shall thereupon be recorded by said clerk in the proper trust deed
book and shall thereupon become a lien against said property and collectable as
other assessments are collected against individuals under this section and it
shall be the duty of those persons having charge of the fiscal affairs of any
such property or institution to make proper arrangements for meeting of such
assessments when due and payable.
   (i)   All acts or parts of acts, whether special or general, which are in
conflict with the provisions of this act, so far as they may apply to the city
of Pennsboro are to that extent repealed, except that said city may continue to
lay sidewalks as the Town of Pennsboro have authorized, and nothing herein
contained shall in anywise effect or impair the right of the city to enforce
the collection of any and all paving, sewering or sidewalk bills or
assessments, heretofore issued, laid or levied by said city of Pennsboro or
Town of Pennsboro, by virtue of any authority had by it.
Sec. 20.
   The council shall have authority to levy and collect an annual tax for the
purpose hereinafter specified, on the personal property and real estate in said
city, subject to taxation by said city, not to exceed in any year ten cents on
every hundred dollars of the assessed value thereof; the money so collected
shall be used for the purpose of paying its proportion of the cost of paving or
re-paving streets and alleys and for constructing sewers in said city, in
accordance with the provisions of section nineteen of this act; and such money
shall in no case be used to pay for repairs of streets or alleys or sewers, or
for any other purpose than for paving or for sewers. Provided, that the total
levy for all purposes shall not exceed the total levy authorized by law.
Sec. 21.
   The holder of any elective office may be removed at any time by the electors
qualified to vote for a successor of such incumbent. The procedure to effect
the removal of an incumbent of an elective office shall be as follows: A
petition signed by electors entitled to vote for a successor to the incumbent
sought to be removed, equal in number to at least twenty per centum, of the
entire vote for all candidates for the office of mayor cast at the last
preceding general municipal election, demanding an election of a successor of
the person sought to be removed shall be filed with the city clerk, which
petition shall contain a general statement of the grounds for which the removal
is sought. The signatures to the petition need not be appended to one paper,
but each signer shall add to his signature [Missing Text] his place of
residence giving the street number. One of the signers of each such paper shall
make oath before an officer competent to administer oaths, that the statements
therein made are true as he believes, and that each signature to the paper
appended is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be.
Within ten days from the date of filing such petition, the city clerk shall
examine and from the voters’ register ascertain whether or not said petition is
signed by the requisite number of qualified electors, and if necessary, the
council shall allow him extra help for that purpose, and he shall attach to
said petition his certificate showing the result of said examination. If by the
clerk’s certificate, the petition is shown to be insufficient, it may be
appended within ten days from the date of said certificate. The clerk shall,
within ten days after such amendment, make like examination of the amended
petition and if his certificate shall show the same to be insufficient, it
shall be returned to the person filing the same; without prejudice however, to
the filing of a new petition to the same effect. If the petition shall be
deemed to be sufficient, the council shall order and fix a date for holding
said election, not less than thirty days nor more than forty days from the date
of the clerk’s certificate to the council that a sufficient petition is filed.
   The council shall make, or cause to be made, publication of notice and all
arrangements for holding such election, and the same shall be conducted,
returned and the result thereof declared in all respects as are other city
elections. So far as applicable except as otherwise herein provided,
nominations hereunder shall be made without the intervention of a primary
election by filing with the clerk at least ten (10) days prior to said special
election, a statement of candidacy accompanied by a petition signed by electors
entitled to vote at said special election, equal in number to at least ten per
centum of the entire vote for all candidates for the office of mayor at the
last preceeding general municipal election, which said statement of candidacy
and petition shall be substantially in the form set out in section five of this
act, so far as the same is applicable, substituting the word “special” for the
word “primary” in such statement and petition and stating therein that such
person is a candidate for election instead of nomination.
   The ballot for such special election shall be in substantially the following
form:
 
   OFFICIAL BALLOT.
   Special election for the balance of the unexpired term of ____________ as
____________
 
   For _________________
   (Vote for one only)
   (Name of candidate)
 
   ( ) _____________________
   ( ) _____________________
   Name of present incumbent.
 
Official ballot, attest:
Signature ________________________
City Clerk
 
   The successor of any officer so removed shall hold office during the
unexpired term of his predecessor. Any person sought to be removed may be a
candidate to succeed himself, and unless he requests otherwise in writing, the
clerk shall place his name on the official ballot without nomination. In any
such removal election, the candidate receiving the highest number of votes
shall be declared elected. At such election, if some other person than the
incumbent receives the highest number of votes, the incumbent shall thereupon
be deemed removed from office upon qualification of his successor. In case the
party who received the highest number of votes should fail to qualify within
ten days after receiving notification of election, the office shall be deemed
vacant. If the incumbent receives the highest number of votes, he shall
continue in office. The said method of removal shall be cumulative and
additional to the methods heretofore provided, by law.
Sec. 22.
   Any proposed ordinance may be submitted to the council by petition signed by
electors of the city equal in number to the percentage hereinafter required.
The signatures, verification, authentication, inspection, certification,
amendment and submission of such petition shall be the same as provided for
petition under section twenty-one hereof.
   If this petition accompanying the proposed ordinance be signed by electors
equal in number to twenty per centum of the votes cast for all candidates for
mayor at the last preceeding general election, and contains a request that the
said ordinance be submitted to a vote of the people, if not passed by the
council, such council shall either,
   (a)   Pass such ordinance without alteration within twenty days after
attachment of the clerk’s certification to the accompanying petition, or,
   (b)   Forthwith, after the clerk shall attach to the petition accompanying
such ordinance his certificate of sufficiency, the council shall call a special
election unless the general municipal election is fixed within ninety days
thereafter, and at such special election or general municipal election, if one
is so fixed, such ordinance shall be submitted without alteration to the vote
of the electors of said city. But if the petition is signed by not less than
ten per centum of the electors, as above defined, then the council shall within
twenty days, pass said ordinance without change, or submit the same at the next
general city election occurring not more than ninety days nor less than thirty
days after the clerk’s certificate of sufficiency is attached to said petition.
   The ballots used when voting upon said ordinance shall contain these words:
“For the ordinance,” and “Against the ordinance” (stating the nature of the
proposed ordinance). If the majority of the qualified electors voting on the
proposed ordinance shall vote in favor thereof, such ordinance shall thereupon
become a valid and binding ordinance of the city; and any ordinance proposed by
petition or which shall be adopted by a vote of the people, cannot be repealed
or amended except by a vote of the people. Any number of proposed ordinances
may be voted upon at the same election in accordance with the provisions of
this section; but there shall not be more than one special election in any
period of six months for such purpose.
   The council may submit a proposition for the repeal of any such ordinance or
for amendments thereto, to be voted upon at any succeeding general city
election; and should such proposition so submitted receive a majority of the
votes cast thereon at such election, such ordinance shall thereby be repealed
or amended accordingly. Whenever any ordinance or proposition is required by
this act to be submitted to the voters of the city at any election, the city
clerk shall cause such ordinance or proposition to be published once in one of
the newspapers published in said city; such publication to be not more than
twenty or less than five days before the submission of such proposition or
ordinance to be voted on.
Sec. 23.
   No ordinance or franchise passed by the council, except when otherwise
required by the general laws of the state or by the provisions of this act,
except an ordinance for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health
or safety, which shall contain a statement of its urgency, shall go into effect
before ten days from the time of its final passage, and not then unless within
two days after passage, Sunday and holidays excepted, copies of the same shall
have been posted and left posted at the mayor’s office and at least three other
public places in the said city. And if during said ten days a petition signed
by electors of the city, equal in number to at least twenty per centum of the
entire vote cast for all candidates for mayor at the last preceeding general
municipal election at which a mayor was elected, protesting against the passage
of such ordinance or franchise, be presented to the council, the said ordinance
or franchise shall thereupon be suspended from going into operation, and it
shall be the duty of the council to reconsider such ordinance or franchise, and
if the same is not entirely repealed, the council shall submit the ordinance,
or franchise, as is provided by sub-section “B” of section twenty-two of this
act, to the vote of the electors of the city, either at the general election or
at a special municipal election to be called for that purpose, and such
ordinance or franchise shall not go into effect or become operative unless a
majority of the qualified electors voting on the same shall vote in favor
thereof. Said petition shall be in all respects in accordance with the
provisions of said section twenty-two except as to the percentage of signers,
and be examined and certified to by the clerk in all respects as therein
provided.
Sec. 24.
   Petitions provided for in this act shall be signed by none but legal voters
of the city. Each petition shall contain, in addition to the names of the
petitioners, the street on which the petitioner resided, his age and length of
residence in the city. It shall also be accompanied by the affidavit of one or
more legal voters of the city, stating that the signers thereof were, at the
time of signing, legal voters of said city, and the number of signers at the
time the affidavit was made.
(Passed February 9th, 1915. In effect from passage. Approved by the Governor
February 16th, 1915), General Provisions
CHAPTER 1: CODIFICATION SYSTEM, GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Article
      
0.   CODIFICATION SYSTEM
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 0: CODIFICATION SYSTEM
Section
   
1-1   Parts 1 and 2 contents
   
1-2   Part 1
   
1-3   Part 2 numbering system
   
1-4   Ordinance numbers and filing
   
1-5   Loose-leaf supplements
§ 1-1 PARTS 1 AND 2 CONTENTS.
   The numbering system used in this code is the same system used in many
states and municipal codes. Part 1 shall contain the City Charter and House
Bill. Part 2 shall contain ordinances and shall be known as “Code of
Ordinances, City of Pennsboro, West Virginia,” hereinafter referred to as the
“city code.” (Prior Code, § 1-1)
§ 1-2 PART 1.
   Part 1 shall contain the City Charter, as amended, and the House Bill Number
180. (Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 1-3 PART 2 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   Part 2 shall consist of chapters, articles, and sections. Each chapter will
be catch lined to facilitate usage. Each section number consists of two
component parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash referring to
the chapter number, and the figure after the dash referring to the position of
the section within the chapter. Articles are numbered with the 100 number
corresponding to the article number. Article 0 containing §§ 1 through 99,
Article 1 containing §§ 100 through 199, and so on. Thus, Chapter 14, Article
3, § 11 would be § 14-311, and chapter 1, article 0, § 3 would be §
1-3. New sections and chapters can be inserted in their proper place simply by
using the decimal system for amendments. Example: §§ 2-205.1 and 2-205.2, or §
12.1. (Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 1-4 ORDINANCE NUMBERS AND FILING.
   Original ordinances after passage and adoption shall be filed with the
minutes of that meeting when enacted. Ordinances shall receive a reference
number of the date of adoption. If an ordinance was adopted in October, 2010 it
will be numbered month and year, such as “102010.” Each ordinance enacted
during that month then will be numbered with a “-1, -2, -3,” respectively. An
ordinance number will appear as 102010-1. Ordinance numbers shall be placed at
the end of each section showing its date of enactment. (Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 1-5 LOOSE-LEAF SUPPLEMENTS.
   The successful maintenance of this code to be up-to-date at all times will
depend largely upon the holder of the volume. It will be the responsibility of
the holder of the volume to have amendments inserted according to instructions.
It is strongly recommended that all such amendments be inserted immediately.
All deleted pages should be saved and filed for historic reference purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-100   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-101   City code copies
   
1-102   Altering code
   
1-103   Catch lines and sections
   
1-104   Severability of parts of code
   
1-105   Effect of repeal of ordinance
   
1-106   General penalty; continuing violations
   
1-107   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
1-108   No grandfathering
   
1-109   Code of 1978
§ 1-100 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Common Council, or unless clearly required
otherwise.
   CITY. The City of Pennsboro, County of Ritchie, State of West Virginia.
   CITY CLERK. Shall include CITY RECORDER.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
be Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL, CITY COUNCIL, COMMON COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of
Pennsboro, State of West Virginia.
   COUNTY. The County of Ritchie, State of West Virginia.
   GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only, and shall extend and be
applied to females, and to firms, partnerships, and corporations, as well as to
males.
   LAND. Includes REAL ESTATE, and includes rights and easements of an in
corporal nature.
   MAY. Permissive, rather than mandatory.
   MAYOR. The executive head of a municipal corporation.
   MONTH. Thirty calendar days.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one person or
thing, as well as to several persons or things.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN
shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are mentioned in this code or
other ordinances, they shall mean standard time or Daylight Saving Time,
whichever may be in current use in the city.
   OR, AND. OR may be read AND, and AND may be read OR if the sense requires
it.
   OWNER. As applied to any property, and shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of such property.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, body politic, firm, partnership,
association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an
individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real property,
as herein defined.
   PROCEEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act or notice
to be done or given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such act or giving
of such notice.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The words THE STATE or THIS STATE shall mean the State of West
Virginia.
   STREET. Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, viaducts,
bridges, and the approaches thereto, and all other public thoroughfares in the
city, and shall mean the entire width thereof between abutting property lines;
it shall be construed to include a sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is
expressed or unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   W. VA. CODE. The Code of West Virginia.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. Shall be construed to include any representation of
words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year; the word YEAR alone shall be equivalent to the
expression “year of our Lord.” (Prior Code, § 1-100)
§ 1-101 CITY CODE COPIES.
   The City Recorder shall maintain an up-to-date a copy of the code to be kept
in the city office, and shall not be removed except for repair, maintenance, or
in emergency, and at the recorders direction. The Recorders shall provide to
the Municipal Court a copy of all updates to the code as soon as practical.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 1-102 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any portion of this code or to insert or delete pages, or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Each day and/or
misrepresentation shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $1,000, and/or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. (Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 1-103 CATCH LINES AND SECTIONS.
   The catch lines of the several sections of this code, printed in boldface
type, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section,
and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part
of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catch lines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 1-104 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid
judgment or decree, or any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or other invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this code, since the
same would have been enacted by the governing body without the incorporation in
this code of any such unconstitutional or otherwise invalid phrases, clauses,
sentences, paragraphs, or sections. (Prior Code, § 1-104)
§ 1-105 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not revive any ordinances in force before or
at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred, or any right accrued, before the repeal took effect, nor any suit,
prosecution, or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense
committed under the ordinances repealed. (Prior Code, § 1-105)
§ 1-106 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Wherever in this code, or in any ordinance or resolution of the Common
Council, or in any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated by any
officer or agency of the city under authority duly vested in him, her, or it,
any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or an offense or
misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific
penalty is provided for the violation thereof; the violation of such provision
of this code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice, or
order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, or both such fine or imprisonment. Each day any violation of
this code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice, or order
shall continue, shall constitute, except where otherwise provided, a separate
offense. (Prior Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-5(58)
§ 1-107 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as those of the past town or
city code, and all ordinances adopted subsequent to the city code and included
herein, shall be considered continuations thereof and not new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 1-107)
§ 1-108 NO GRANDFATHERING.
   No person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity shall be exempt from
immediate compliance with the terms of this city code of ordinances by virtue
of past practices or other circumstances under which an argument for so-called
“grandfathering” might be predicated, and each shall forthwith bring his, her,
its, or their facility, residence, place, or thing into full and complete
compliance with all applicable terms hereof. (Prior Code, § 1-108)
§ 1-109 CODE OF 1978.
   A copy of the City Code of 1978 shall be kept on file after final update for
referral purposes indefinitely by the City Clerk. (Prior Code, § 1-108)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
0.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
      
1.   CITY COUNCIL
      
2.   POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR
      
3.   CITY RECORDER
      
4.   MUNICIPAL COURT/JUDGE
      
5.   CITY SOLICITOR
      
6.   RATE OF COMPENSATION FOR MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
7.   RESTRICTIONS ON MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
8.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
9.   COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE 0: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
Section
   
2-1   Municipal authorities; elective officers; qualifications; vacancies
   
2-2   Elective officers; election and term
   
2-3   Vacancy in elective office; appointed offices; how filed
   
2-4   Officers in addition to elective officers; salaries
§ 2-1 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES; ELECTIVE OFFICERS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   The municipal authorities of the city shall consist of a Mayor and four
members of Council. The Mayor and Council members shall be residents of the
city and shall be qualified voters entitled to vote for members of its
governing body. Each official so elected shall continue to be a resident of the
city during his or her term of office. (Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 2-2 ELECTIVE OFFICERS; ELECTION AND TERM.
   The terms of all elected officers shall commence on July 1 following their
election, and shall be for four years. (Prior Code, § 2-2)
§ 2-3 VACANCY IN ELECTIVE OFFICE; APPOINTED OFFICES; HOW FILED.
   Unless otherwise provided by Charter provision or ordinance, when a vacancy
shall occur from any cause in any elective office, the vacancy, until the next
succeeding regular municipal election and until the qualification of an elected
successor, shall be filled by appointment by the governing body from among the
residents of the municipality eligible under this article. (Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 2-4 OFFICERS IN ADDITION TO ELECTIVE OFFICERS; SALARIES.
   (A)   In addition to the municipal authorities mentioned in §
2-1:
      (1)   The city shall have a City Clerk/Recorder;
      (2)   The city shall have a Municipal Court Judge;
      (3)   The city may have a Chief of Police;
      (4)   The city may have one or more City Solicitors;
      (5)   The city may have police officers in such a number as the Council
shall direct; and
      (6)   Other officers, as recommend and approved by Council, that are
authorized by law.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint the City Clerk, Municipal Judge, Chief of
Police, City Solicitors, and other approved officers. These appointments shall
require confirmation by Council.
   (C)   The city may hire employees to perform the prescribed duties of
Council. (Prior Code, § 2-4)
ARTICLE 1: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
2-100   Time and place of regular meetings
   
2-101   Who is to preside at meetings; quorum; interested members of City
Council not to vote
   
2-102   Tie vote; Mayor may vote
   
2-103   Order of business
   
2-104   General rules of order
   
2-105   City Council to keep records and minutes of proceedings
§ 2-100 TIME AND PLACE OF REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at such times and on such days
as may be established by resolution of the Council. Special meetings may be
called from time to time by the Mayor or by any two Council members. Special
meetings should only be called for matters that requires action before the next
regularly scheduled meeting. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
Council, and shall supervise the work of all departments, and report to the
Council or its action all matters requiring attention from any department. The
Superintendent of the Department of Accounts and Finance shall preside at
Council meetings, and shall assume the duties of the Mayor in the event of a
vacancy in office of the Mayor, or the absence or the inability of the Mayor to
perform the functions of that office. (Prior Code, § 2-100)
Charter reference:
   Similar provisions, see City
Charter § 11
§ 2-101 WHO IS TO PRESIDE AT MEETINGS; QUORUM; INTERESTED MEMBERS OF CITY
COUNCIL NOT TO VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall serve as the presiding officer at all meetings of the
City Council. If the Mayor is absent, then the Council person in charge of the
Department of Accounts and Finance shall preside.
   (B)   A quorum, consisting of a majority of the members of the City Council,
must be present in order to transact business. No member of the City Council
shall vote upon any ordinance, order, measure, resolution, or proposition in
which he or she may be interested in other than as a citizen of the
municipality. (Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 2-102 TIE VOTE; MAYOR MAY VOTE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by the Charter, the Mayor shall vote as a
member of the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of a tie, the presiding officer at the time shall
cast the tie-breaking vote, unless he or she has previously voted. If the Mayor
or Council member in charge of the Department of Accounts and Finance presides
at meetings of the City Council of this municipality, he or she may elect not
to vote on issues decided by the City Council.
      (2)   However, this choice does not restrict his or her right to cast a
tie-breaking vote. (Prior Code, § 2-102)
§ 2-103 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Unless dispensed with by a majority of the members present, the City Council
shall observe the following regular order of business:
   (A)   Call to order by the presiding officer;
   (B)   Roll call by the Recorder or Clerk;
   (C)   Reading of the minutes of the previous meeting by the Recorder or
Clerk, and approval or correction;
   (D)   Hearing of grievances of citizens;
   (E)   Communications from the Mayor;
   (F)   Report from committees, members of the City Council, and other
officers;
   (G)   Old business;
   (H)   New business; and
   (I)   Adjournment. (Prior Code, § 2-103)
§ 2-104 GENERAL RULES OF ORDER.
   The rules of order and parliamentary procedure contained in “Robert’s Rules
of Order,” revised, shall govern the transaction of business by and before the
City Council. Only in cases where they conflict with provisions of the
municipality’s Charter or this code will they be abandoned. (Prior Code, § 2-
104)
§ 2-105 CITY COUNCIL TO KEEP RECORDS AND MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The City Council of this municipality shall keep an accurate record of all
proceedings, ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions, rules, and
regulations. They shall be indexed and open to the general public of said
municipality. (Prior Code, § 2-105)
ARTICLE 2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR
Section
   
2-200   Executes acts of City Council
   
2-201   Jurisdiction to hear and determine violations of city ordinances
   
2-202   Has control of police
   
2-203   Recommend important measures
   
2-204   Authority to hire special council
   
2-205   Generally supervises municipality affairs
§ 2-200 EXECUTES ACTS OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall see to it that all lawful ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts,
resolutions, rules, and regulations made by the City Council are faithfully
executed. (Prior Code, § 2-200)
§ 2-201 JURISDICTION TO HEAR AND DETERMINE VIOLATIONS OF CITY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall have the power to hear and decide alleged
violations of ordinances and to convict and sentence persons therefor, however,
in no case shall he or she sentence anyone to a jail term exceeding 30 days;
nor can he or she hand down a monetary penalty exceeding $500.
      (2)   The Mayor shall enjoy and exercise the duties vested in county
magistrates, barring civil cases, within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the municipality, by Charter provision
or ordinance, provides for the creation of the office of Municipal Court Judge.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court, see
Chapter 15
   Municipal Court Judge, see
Chapter 2, Article 4
§ 2-202 HAS CONTROL OF POLICE.
   The police of this municipality are subject to the control of the Mayor. The
Mayor may appoint special police officers whenever he or she deems it necessary
to preserve the peace and order of the community. (Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 2-203 RECOMMEND IMPORTANT MEASURES.
   It shall be the duty of the mayor to recommend to the City Council measures
he or she deems important to the welfare of the community. (Prior Code, § 2-
203)
§ 2-204 AUTHORITY TO HIRE SPECIAL COUNCIL.
   It shall be within the power of the Mayor, subject to authorization of the
City Council, to employ an attorney or firm of attorneys to represent and
advise the municipality on legal matters. This action may be taken in lieu of
or in addition to the City Solicitor. (Prior Code, § 2-204)
§ 2-205 GENERALLY SUPERVISES MUNICIPALITY AFFAIRS.
   The Mayor shall have general supervisory powers over all the affairs of the
municipality. He or she may require municipal officers and employees to submit
reports whenever he or she deems it necessary to fully execute his or her
executive functions. (Prior Code, § 2-205)
ARTICLE 3: CITY RECORDER
Section
   
2-300   City Recorder
   
2-301   Authentication of records
   
2-302   Shall be bonded
   
2-303   Resignation of City Recorder
§ 2-300 CITY RECORDER.
   (A)   The City Recorder shall be the Recorder of Council. It shall be the
duty of the City Recorder to keep a journal of the proceedings of the City
Council. The Recorder shall also preserve all ordinances in a separate
ordinance book. The Recorder shall be the custodian of all records and papers
of Council and perform duties imposed upon him or her by general laws of the
state, these coded ordinances, other ordinances and resolutions, and orders of
Council.
   (B)   The office of the City Recorder is recognized as the principal point
of contact between the public and the city government, and all personnel of the
City Recorder’s office shall provide information and guidance to all orderly
persons affected by the provisions of these codified ordinances, or other
ordinances or resolutions of Council, and to those having business to transact
in any city department, office, or agency.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall have such other powers and perform such other
duties as may from time to time be specified by the Mayor, City Council, and
state law.
   (D)   The City Recorder shall have custody and maintain all city records,
money, corporate bonds, notes, and certificates, together with all valuable
papers of every kind and character which may come into his or her hands by
virtue of his or her office. (Prior Code, § 2-300)
§ 2-301 AUTHENTICATION OF RECORDS.
   All records of the Council shall be authenticated by signature of the Mayor,
and attested by the signature of the City Recorder. (Prior Code, § 2-301)
§ 2-302 SHALL BE BONDED.
   The Recorder, before assuming office, shall be bonded in the sum of $10,000
with surety acceptable to the City Council. His or her bond is not released
until the complete transfer of office by his or her successor. (Prior Code, §
2-302)
§ 2-303 RESIGNATION OF CITY RECORDER.
   Providing the City Recorder shall desire to resign from his or her position
as City Recorder, he, she, or they shall provide in writing to Mayor and
Council a 30-day notice of intent to resign. (Prior Code, § 2.303) (Ord. passed
1- -2020)
ARTICLE 4: MUNICIPAL COURT/JUDGE
Section
   
2-400   Office of Municipal Judge
   
2-402   Municipal Court
§ 2-400 OFFICE OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   There is hereby created a Municipal Court for the city, which shall be
presided over by a Municipal Judge. (Prior Code, § 2-400)
§ 2-402 MUNICIPAL COURT.
   There is hereby created a Chapter 15 in the municipal code book for the
Municipal Court. (Prior Code, § 2-401)
ARTICLE 5: CITY SOLICITOR
Section
   
2-500   Qualifications
   
2-501   General duties
§ 2-500 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Solicitor shall be a member, in good standing, of the State Bar
Association. (Prior Code, § 2-500)
§ 2-501 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Solicitor shall be the legal advisor and attorney of this
municipality and its officers in matters relating to official duties. He or she
may prepare all ordinances of this municipality. He or she shall represent the
city in all matters and proceedings in any court in which the city is
interested. It will also be his or her duty to perform any incidental duties
the governing body or as the Mayor may require of him or her. (Prior Code, § 2-
501)
ARTICLE 6: RATE OF COMPENSATION FOR MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
2-600   In general
   
2-601   Pay period
   
2-602   Overtime
§ 2-600 IN GENERAL.
   The rate of remuneration for city officials and employees shall be set, by
resolution, by City Council. Salaries of employees are confidential information
between the employee and management. (Prior Code, § 2-600)
§ 2-601 PAY PERIOD.
   All employees shall be paid bi-weekly. The two-week period ends on Sunday,
and checks received the following Wednesday. All hourly employees must sign
their time card listing hours worked, vacation, or sick, whichever applies.
(Prior Code, § 2-601)
§ 2-602 OVERTIME.
   No overtime will be allowed unless approved by the Mayor or the Council.
Hourly employees are entitled to daily overtime for pay for overtime hours at
the rate of one and one-half times their current hourly rate when actual work
hours exceed 40 hours within the designated work week of the employee. Sick
hours, holiday hours, and vacation hours shall not be counted as actual hours
worked and shall not be counted toward overtime. (Prior Code, § 2-602) (Ord.
passed 1- -2020)
ARTICLE 7: RESTRICTIONS ON MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
2-700   Gifts and bribes
   
2-701   Outside employment
   
2-702   Political activity
   
2-703   Use of municipal time and property
   
2-704   Use of position or title
   
2-705   Strikes and union activity
   
2-706   Violations
§ 2-700 GIFTS AND BRIBES.
   It shall be unlawful for any municipal officer or employee to accept money,
favors, or any other form of gift from anyone, other than the municipality, for
the performance of an act or job. It shall also be unlawful for a municipal
officer or employee to accept money, favors, or any other form of gift which
could reasonably be construed as an attempt to influence the performance of his
or her municipal duties. (Prior Code, § 2-700)
§ 2-701 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   Outside employment shall not interfere with the performance of the official
duties of the employee. (Prior Code, § 2-701)
§ 2-702 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any municipal employee to solicit campaign funds or
actively participate in any political campaign. This article shall not be
construed as to abridge a municipal officer or employee’s fundamental right to
vote or privately express his or her political views. This section shall not
apply to elected officers. (Prior Code, § 2-702)
§ 2-703 USE OF MUNICIPAL TIME AND PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any municipal officer or employee to use, or
authorize the use of, any municipal time or property for private benefit or for
the benefit of other private individuals or groups. This article shall not
apply whenever the governing body has given proper authorization for the use of
such time and property and is justly compensated for its use, at a rate
normally charged by private sources for comparable service. (Prior Code, § 2-
703)
§ 2-704 USE OF POSITION OR TITLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any municipal officer or employee to use his or her
position or title to secure unwarranted privileges or benefits for himself or
herself or others. No municipal officer or employee shall use his or her
position and title to make purchases in the name of the municipality when they
are intended for private use. (Prior Code, § 2-704)
§ 2-705 STRIKES AND UNION ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any municipal officer or employee to participate in
any strike against the municipality. It shall also be unlawful for any
municipal officer or employee to join, be a member of, or solicit any other
municipal officer or employee to join a union which authorizes the use of
strikes against the municipality. (Prior Code, § 2-705)
§ 2-706 VIOLATIONS.
   Any municipal officer or employee who violates any section of this article
shall be subject to dismissal following a proper hearing and determination of
his or her wrong doing. He or she shall also be subject to a fine of not more
than $1,000 for each separate violation. (Prior Code, § 2-706)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised November 16, 2015.
ARTICLE 8: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
   [Reserved]   Copies may be found in the office of the City Recorder.
ARTICLE 9: COMMISSIONS
Section
   
2-900   In general
   
2-901   Commission limitations
§ 2-900 IN GENERAL.
   It will be necessary, from time to time, for municipalities to formulate
certain commissions to better oversee the development of specific areas under
the supervision of the municipality. Examples include: park commissions,
utility commission, or human relations commissions. In enacting enabling
ordinances creating such commissions, the governing body should include the
following provisions:
   (A)   Creation; composition; appointment; terms and compensation of members;
and filling vacancies.
      (1)   Appointed commissioners’ terms shall expire each June 30 at the end
of the appointed time period.
      (2)   Commissioners’ terms shall be five years unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   Purpose;
   (C)   Officers; rules; meetings; and records;
   (D)   Powers and authority generally; budget; and annual reports; and
   (E)   Duties. (Prior Code, § 2-900)
§ 2-901 COMMISSION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No commission or commissioners appointed by the City Council shall
have the authority to sell, trade, giveaway, transfer, or deed to another, or
in any way dispose of, any real property without first obtaining consent of the
Council.
   (B)   No commission or commissioner shall incur any form of indebtedness
without first obtaining consent of the Council. (Prior Code, § 2-901)
CHAPTER 3: ALCOHOL BEVERAGES
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   LICENSE, FEES, PERMITS, COMPLIANCE
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-11   Definitions
   
3-12   Restrictions of sale, manufacture, or consumption
   
3-13   Intoxication or drinking in public place, illegal possession
   
3-14   Private clubs
   
3-15   Restaurants
   
3-16   Hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts
§ 3-11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol whatever its origin, and shall include synthetic
ethyl alcohol but not denatured alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, beer, wine and spirits, and any liquid or solid
capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include non-intoxicating
beer.
   AN AGENCY. A drugstore, grocery store, or general store designated by the
Commission as a retail distributor of alcoholic liquor for the State Liquor
Control Commission.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops, or
any other similar product or substitute, and containing more alcohol than that
of non-intoxicating beer.
   BREWERY. An establishment where beer is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   COMMISSIONER or COMMISSION. The State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner.
   DEPARTMENT. The organization through which the Commission exercises powers
imposed upon it by this chapter.
   DISTILLERY. An establishment where alcoholic liquor, other than wine or
beer, is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   INTOXICATED. Having one’s faculties impaired by alcohol or other drugs to
the point where physical or mental control, or both, are markedly diminished.
   LOW-PROOF SPIRIT ALCOHOL PRODUCTS. Any alcoholic liquor beverage drink,
other than wine, beer, or nonintoxicating beer, containing one-half of 1%
(0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume, but not more than 15.5% alcohol by volume
obtained by distillation, mixed with drinkable water, fruit juices, flavoring
or coloring materials, other alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverages or other
ingredients in a solution.
   MANUFACTURE. To distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix, concoct,
process, blend, bottle, or fill an original package with any alcoholic liquor.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacture of any alcoholic liquor,
and among others includes a distiller, a rectifier, a wine maker, and a brewer.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER. Any beverage, obtained by the fermentation of barley,
malt, hops, or similar products or substitute, and containing not more alcohol
than that specified by W. Va. Code § 11-16-2.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any closed or sealed container or receptacle used for
holding alcoholic liquor.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
or voluntary association.
   POWDERED ALCOHOL. An alcohol manufactured in a powder or crystalline form
for either direct use or reconstitution as an alcoholic liquor or food. For
purposes of this article, POWDERED ALCOHOL excludes any material intended for
industrial purposes
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, building, or conveyance to which the public has, or
is permitted to have, access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel
dining rooms, lobbies, and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane,
park, or place of public resort or amusement; provided, that the term PUBLIC
PLACE shall not mean or include any of the above-named places, or any portion
or portions thereof, which qualify and are licensed under the provisions of
this chapter to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises;
provided, however, that the term PUBLIC PLACE shall not mean or include any
legally demarcated area designated solely for the consumption of beverages and
freshly prepared food that directly connects and adjoins any portion or
portions of a premises that qualifies and is licensed under the provisions of
this chapter to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption thereupon.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means for a
consideration, and shall include all sales made by principal, proprietor,
agent, or employee.
   SELLING. Includes solicitation or receipt of orders; possession for sale;
and possession with intent to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation and mixed with
potable water and other substances in solution, and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, cordials, and gin.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE. A store established and operated by the Commission under
this chapter for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package for
consumption off the premises.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits, or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
   WINERY. An establishment where wine is manufactured or in any way prepared.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5) (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 1-1)
§ 3-12 RESTRICTIONS OF SALE, MANUFACTURE, OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Alcohol, alcoholic liquors, beer, wine, non-intoxicating beer, and
spirits within the municipal boundaries of the city shall:
      (1)   Be sold only in sealed packages;
      (2)   Shall not be sold for consumption on the premises where sold. It
shall be unlawful for any person to open or consume any alcoholic beverages on
premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package; and
      (3)   Shall be manufactured only by persons having a state license and
under the provisions of the state.
   (B)   No sale shall be made to any person less than 21 years of age.
   (C)   Alcohol and alcoholic liquors shall not be:
      (1)   Consumed in a public place; and
      (2)   Shall not be sold to a person:
         (a)   Addicted to alcoholic beverages;
         (b)   Addicted to the use of narcotic drugs; and/or
         (c)   A person declared mentally incompetent by a court of legal
jurisdiction. (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 1-2)
§ 3-13 INTOXICATION OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACE, ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   A person shall not:
   (A)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
   (B)   Drink alcoholic liquor in a public place;
   (C)   Drink alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle on any highway, street,
alley, or in a public garage;
   (D)   Give a drink of alcoholic liquor to another person in a public place;
or
   (E)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which is in violation of a part of this
chapter. (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 1-3)
§ 3-14 PRIVATE CLUBS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPLICANT. A private club applying for a license under the provisions of
this article.
      CODE. The official code of the state, as amended.
      COMMISSIONER. The State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner.
      LICENSEE. The holder of a license to operate a private club granted under
the provisions of this chapter, which license shall remain unexpired,
unsuspended, and unrevoked.
      PRIVATE CLUB. Any corporation or unincorporated association which either:
         (a)   Belongs to or is affiliated with a nationally recognized
fraternal or veterans organization, which is operated exclusively for the
benefit of its members, which pays no part of its income to its shareholders or
individual members, which owns or leases a building or other premises, to which
club are admitted only duly elected or approved dues-paying members in good
standing of such corporation or association, and their guests while in the
company of a member, and to which club the general public is not admitted, and
which club maintains in said building or on said premises a suitable kitchen
and dining facility with related equipment for serving food to members and
their guests;
         (b)   Is a non-profit social club, which is operated exclusively for
the benefit of its members, which pays no part of its income to its
shareholders or individual members, which owns or leases a building or other
premises to which club are admitted only duly elected or approved dues-paying
members in good standing of such corporation or association, and their guests
while in the company of a member, and to which club the general public is not
admitted, and which club maintains in said building or on said premises a
suitable kitchen and dining facility with related equipment for serving food to
members and their guests;
         (c)   Is organized and operated for legitimate purposes, which has at
least 100 duly elected or approved dues-paying members in good standing, which
owns or leases a building or other premises, including any vessel licensed or
approved by any federal agency to carry or accommodate passengers on navigable
waters of this state, to which club are admitted only duly elected or approved
dues-paying members in good standing of such corporation or association, and
their guests while in the company of a member, and to which club the general
public is not admitted, and which club maintains in said building or on said
premises a suitable kitchen and dining facility with related equipment, and
employs a sufficient number of persons for serving meals to members and their
guests; or
         (d)   Is organized for legitimate purposes and owns or leases a
building or other limited premises in any state, county, or municipal park, or
at any airport in which building or premises a club has been established, to
which club are admitted only duly elected and approved dues-paying members in
good standing and their guests, while in the company of a member, and to which
club the general public is not admitted, and which maintains in connection with
said club a suitable kitchen and dining facility and related equipment, and
employs a sufficient number of persons for serving meals in said club to said
members and their guests.
   (B) Sale of alcohol. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code to
the contrary, licensees are hereby authorized to sell alcoholic liquors by the
drink, other than in sealed packages, but does not include bottle or original
container sales of alcoholic liquors to patrons, for consumption on the
premises of the licensees, to their members and their guests in accordance with
the provisions of this article, rules of the Commissioner, and as authorized
under W. Va. Code § 60-6-8. The licensees may keep and maintain on their
premises a supply of those lawfully acquired alcoholic liquors in such
quantities as may be appropriate for the conduct of operations thereof.(W. Va.
Code § 60-7-3) (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 1-4)
§ 3-15 RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      RESTAURANT.
         (a)   A place where meals are prepared on the premises and are
regularly served to the public for adequate pay each day the establishment is
open for business;
         (b)   Contain one or more public dining rooms, with adequate and
sanitary kitchen facilities and staff to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food
for its guests;
         (c)   Have staff available to serve meals prepared on the premises
during any time the establishment is open for business;
         (d)   Have a valid County Health Department food service permit and
any other applicable local, state, or federal permits, licenses, and the like,
required for food service establishments;
         (e)   Have at least 50% of its total sales comprised of the sale of
food prepared on the premises and non-alcoholic beverages consumed on the
premises; and for this purpose, if a RESTAURANT makes a minimum charge, cover
charge, or admission charge, or any other non-food or non-alcoholic beverage
charge, the amount so charged shall not be counted in computing total sales,
and shall not be counted as a food or beverage sale;
         (f)   Have a permanent seating capacity, at tables and chairs, not
counting bar stools, of at least 35 persons;
         (g)   The RESTAURANT must have written menus readily available to
patrons. A majority of the food listed in the menu shall be available for
consumption while the business is open;
         (h)   Have adequate sanitary facilities and separate restrooms for men
and women;
         (i)   Shall have approved fire exits, current and adequate fire
extinguishers for the premises, and meet all current fire and building codes in
effect for the municipality; and
         (j)   The restaurant must have more than 850 square feet of service
area, which shall notinclude any space at counters, bars, or lounges, or a
combination of a full-service operating kitchen arealarger than 500 square feet
with a service area of no less than 700 square feet.
   (B)   Eligibility for license. A license may be granted to a restaurant, as
defined under division (A) above, and divisions (C) and (D) below,
notwithstanding any other provisions of this code to the contrary, a license to
sell alcoholic liquors, other than in sealed packages, for consumption on the
premises of the licensees to guests in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
   (C) Private club restaurant, video lottery private club restaurant.
      (1)   PRIVATE CLUB RESTAURANT means an applicant for a private club or
licensed private club licensee that has a primary function of using the
licensed premises as a restaurant for serving freshly prepared meals and dining
in the restaurant area. The private club restaurant may have a bar area
separate from or commingled within the restaurant where seating requirements
for members and guests are met by including the restaurant area.
         (a)   Equipment in the kitchen shall be capable of preparing a freshly
cooked meal on the licensed premises. In addition, licensees shall have at
least enough food to serve one-fourth the number of seats in the private club
at any one time.
         (b)   A suitable kitchen shall contain equipment as follows:
            1.    One range with oven and no fewer than two burners, or a
microwave oven which has a variable control and a separate range with two
burners;
            2.   One sink with hot and cold running water;
            3.   One cold storage unit or refrigerator at least 17 cubic feet
in size
            4.   One sink with hot and cold running water;
            5.   One cold storage unit or refrigerator at least 17 cubic feet
in size; and
            6.   Cooking utensils and pots and pans sufficient for preparation
of the required meals.
         (c)   A suitable dining facility shall include the following: Plates
(other than of paper or similar construction), metal knives, forks, and spoons,
and drinking glasses and cups, in sufficient quantities to serve no fewer meals
than one-fourth the number of seats in the club. A meal may consist of one item
or any combination of items. For example, fresh, canned, and packaged chili,
soup, spaghetti, fresh salad, fresh or prepackaged sandwiches, freshly prepared
meats, and vegetables are acceptable. Items which, by themselves, do not
qualify as adequate are packaged potato chips and similar products; packaged
crackers; packaged nuts; packaged desserts (fruit pies, cakes, cookies, and the
like); and bar sausages and similar products. The key word in the definition of
meals is preparation. Meals shall be available from opening of the club until
closing. Limited menus will be acceptable after 10:00 p.m.(W. Va. Code Ch. 60
and 175 C.S.R. § 2)
      (2)   If video lottery is provided, video lottery terminals shall be
located in a separate room suitable for the location of video lottery terminals
with adult-only restricted access, the interior of which is not visible to
persons outside the room. Individuals under 21 years of age shall not be
admitted.(W. Va. Code § 29-22B-328(a)(1))
   (D)   Private club bar, video lottery private club bar. PRIVATE CLUB BAR
means an applicant for a private club or licensed private club licensee that
has a primary function for the use of the licensed premises as a bar for the
sale and consumption of alcoholic liquors and non-intoxicating beer or non-
intoxicating craft beer and wine when licensed for those sales, while providing
a limited food menu for members and guests, and meeting the criteria set forth
in this division (D) which:
      (1)   Operates a bar with a kitchen, including at least:
         (a)   A two-burner hot plate, air fryer, or microwave oven;
         (b)   A sink with hot and cold running water;
         (c)   A 17-cubic-foot refrigerator or freezer, or some combination of
a refrigerator and freezer which is not used for alcohol cold storage; and
         (d)   Kitchen utensils and other food consumption apparatus as
determined by the Commissioner.
      (2)   Food fit for human consumption available to be served during all
hours of operation on the licensed premises; and
      (3)   Maintains, at any one time, a food inventory capable of being
prepared in the private club bar’s kitchen. In calculating the food inventory,
the Commissioner shall include television dinners, bags of chips, or similar
products, microwavable food or meals, frozen meals, prepackaged foods, or
canned prepared foods.(W. Va. Code § 60 and 175 C.S.R. § 2)
   (E)   Adult-only access. If video lottery is provided, video lottery
terminals shall be located in a separate room suitable for the location of
video lottery terminals with adult-only restricted access, the interior of
which is not visible to persons outside the room. Individuals under 21 years of
age shall not be admitted.(W. Va. Code § 29-22)
§ 3-16 HOTELS, MOTELS, BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   [Reserved]   (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 1-6)
ARTICLE 2: LICENSE, FEES, PERMITS, COMPLIANCE
Section
   
3-21   Municipal license tax
   
3-22   License not transferable; change of location
   
3-23   Excessive noise and disturbing the quietude of the community
   
3-24   Grandfathered
   
3-25   License fees imposed
   
3-26   Duties of state license holders to report to the Clerk to show license
and to pay city license
   
3-27   Revocation of license
   
3-28   Distributor or retailer of wines
   
3-29   Tax on retail purchases of intoxicating liquors
§ 3-21 MUNICIPAL LICENSE TAX.
   Any municipality in this state is hereby authorized to levy a fee for
revenue purposes only upon any licensee whose premises are situate within such
municipality, which fee shall not exceed one-half the amount of the license fee
levied by this state under the provisions of §
3-26 of this article. Any such municipality is hereby authorized and empowered
to enact and adopt ordinances necessary for the collection and enforcement of
such fee.(W. Va. Code § 60-7-7) (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 2-1)
§ 3-22 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferred
to another person, nor shall the location of the premises to which the license
relates be changed without the written consent of the Council, which consent
may be given or refused, in its discretion.(W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-7, 60-4-23,
60-4-22) (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 2-2)
§ 3-23 EXCESSIVE NOISE AND DISTURBING THE QUIETUDE OF THE COMMUNITY.
   A licensee of a consumption on the premises establishment shall at all times
control the volume of music or other sounds originating within or from
adjoining parking, or other areas under the control of the licensee. A volume
in excess of a normal conversational tone at the public roadway on which the
licensed premises abuts shall be a violation of this section. (Prior Code,
Chapter 3, § 2-3)
§ 3-24 GRANDFATHERED.
   (A)   A tavern, club, or place of business at the adoption of this chapter
that was licensed and permitted to serve consumption on the premises where sold
shall be grandfathered.
   (B)   A grandfathered tavern shall not be required to comply with §
3-12(A) and (B), provided:
      (1)   The place of business shall remain under the ownership and license
of the present owner at the time of the adoption of this chapter. Any sale,
transfer, or change of ownership or proprietorship shall void the grandfather
clause;
      (2)   The place of business shall maintain a valid and continuous state
and municipal license (permit);
      (3)   The place of business shall have not been convicted of any state or
municipal violations or laws;
      (4)   The place of business shall maintain its location in accordance
with the municipal ordinances;
      (5)   The grandfather clause shall not exclude compliance with any other
municipal ordinance; and
      (6)   A license under this provision may be revoked for just cause by
vote of the governing body. (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 2-4)
§ 3-25 LICENSE FEES IMPOSED.
   (A)   The city has the right to impose upon any private club that fall
within the city limits the following license fees:
      (1)   Fraternal or veteran organizations, or non-profit social clubs:
$375; and
      (2)   Private clubs, other than what is listed in division (A)(1) above:
      (1)   Less than 1,000 members: $500; and
      (2)   More than 1,000 members: $1,250.
   (B)   The fee for any such license issued following the first day of January
of any year and to expire on June 30 of such year shall be one-half the annual
fees noted in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above. (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 2-5)
§ 3-26 DUTIES OF STATE LICENSE HOLDERS TO REPORT TO THE CLERK TO SHOW LICENSE
AND TO PAY CITY LICENSE.
   All licensees shall report annually to the City Recorder to show their state
license and to pay city license fees. These licenses of both the city and the
state shall be displayed in plain view at the place of business, with an annual
year ranging from July 1 to June 30. (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 2-7)
§ 3-27 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Recorder shall automatically void all city licenses in place where
the state license has also been voided. All licenses holders have a duty to
report any state license that is voided to the City Recorder. (Prior Code,
Chapter 3, § 2-8)
§ 3-28 DISTRIBUTOR OR RETAILER OF WINES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in business in the capacity of
distributor or retailer of wines within the city without first obtaining a
license from said city.
      (2)   The city shall collect an annual fee for licenses issued under this
article as follows:
         (a)   Twenty-five hundred dollars per year, or faction thereof, for a
distributor’s license; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty dollars per year, or fraction thereof, for a
retailer’s license
   (B)   The license period shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on June
30 of the following year, and if the initial license is granted for less than a
year, the fee shall be computed in proportion to the number of quarters are
remaining in the fiscal year, including the quarter in which application is
made.
   (C)   The enforcement of this division (C) shall be consistent with and
subject to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq., as amended. (Prior
Code, Chapter 3, § 2-9)
§ 3-29 TAX ON RETAIL PURCHASES OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   Pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8-13-7, as amended, there is hereby imposed a tax
of 5% of the retail purchase prices of any and all intoxicating liquors
purchased from the Alcohol Beverage Control Commission, or from any person
licensed to sell wine at retail to the public under the provisions of W. Va.
Code § 60-8, within the corporate boundaries of the municipality. Such tax
shall be levied upon the purchaser of said intoxicating liquor or wine, and
shall be added to any collected with the retail purchase price of such
intoxicating liquor or wine. Such tax shall be received by the municipality
from the State Treasury pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the
said Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner. Provided, however, that such tax
shall not be collected on intoxicating liquors, other than wine sold by or
purchased from holders of a license issued under the provision of W. Va. Code §
60-7. Provided further, such tax shall be collected upon all sales of wine to
holders of a license issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code § 60-7 from a
wine distributor licensed pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-3 et
seq. (Prior Code, Chapter 3, § 2-10) (Ord. passed 8-1-1983)
CHAPTER 4: ANIMALS AND FOWL
   Article
      
0.   IN GENERAL
      
1.   LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
      
2.   DOGS
      
3.   CATS
      
4.   EXOTIC AND WILD ANIMALS
      
5.   PERMITS
      
6.   SPAYING AND NEUTERING
ARTICLE 0: IN GENERAL
Section
   
4-1   Regulating and impounding of animals
   
4-2   Animal tax; permit fee
   
4-3   Unlawful quartering of animals
   
4-4   Forcible retaking of impounded stock: penalty
   
4-5   Cruelty to animals
   
4-6   Hunting prohibited
   
4-7   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
4-8   Animals running at large
   
4-9   Poisoning animals
   
4-10   City is bird sanctuary
   
4-11   Control of rabies and other diseases
   
4-12   Animal waste
   
4-13   Habitual animal noise
   
4-14   Duty to maintain places where permitted animals are kept in a sanitary
condition, and the like
   
4-15   Delegation
   
4-16   Dead animals and fowl; disposition of carcasses
   
4-17   Responsibility for removal of carcasses
   
4-18   Administration and enforcement of chapter
   
4-19   Search warrants
   
4-20   No need for search warrant
   
4-21   Penalty
   
4-22   Animals on city property
§ 4-1 REGULATING AND IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   The city shall have the power to regulate or prohibit the keeping of animals
or fowls, and to provide for the impounding, sale, or destruction of animals or
fowls kept contrary to the laws of this city, or running loose not under
control of the owner. (Prior Code, § 4-1)
§ 4-2 ANIMAL TAX; PERMIT FEE.
   This city shall have the power and authority to levy and collect an annual
license tax or permit fee upon the privilege of keeping any domestic or other
animal within the corporate limits of the city. (Prior Code, § 4-2)
§ 4-3 UNLAWFUL QUARTERING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to quarter any livestock or keep any fowl in
an area of less than ten acres, or to keep wild or exotic animals inside the
city limits. (Prior Code, § 4-3)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-4 FORCIBLE RETAKING OF IMPOUNDED STOCK: PENALTY.
   Anyone who forcefully shall take possession of any animal impounded by the
city under this chapter without paying all fees shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior Code, § 4-4)
§ 4-5 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally, knowingly, or
recklessly,
         (a)   Mistreat an animal in cruel manner;
         (b)   Abandon an animal;
         (c)   Withhold:
            1.   Proper sustenance, including food or water;
            2.   Shelter that protects from the elements of weather; or
            3.   Medical treatment necessary to sustain normal health and
fitness or to end the suffering of any animal.
         (d)   Abandon an animal to die;
         (e)   Leave an animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle when
physical injury to or death of the animal is likely to result;
         (f)   Ride an animal when it is physically unfit;
         (g)   Bait or harass an animal for the purpose of making it perform
for a person’s amusement;
         (h)   Cruelly chain or tether an animal; or
         (i)   Use, train, or possess a domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
      (2)   Any person in violation of division (A)(1) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $300 nor
more than $2,000 or confined in jail not more than six months, or both.
   (B)   A person who intentionally tortures, mutilates, or maliciously kills
an animal, or causes, procures, or authorizes any other person to torture,
mutilate, or maliciously kill an animal, is guilty of a felony and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in a correctional facility not less than
one nor more than five years and be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than
$5,000. As it relates to this section, TORTURE means an action taken for the
primary purpose of inflicting pain.
   (C)   A person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, who knowingly
and willfully administers or causes to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting said animal’s performance is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $2,000.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (A) above forfeits his
or her interest in any animal and all interest in the animal vests in the
humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered and the person is, in addition to any fine imposed, liable for any
costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the term CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the
same meaning ascribed to it by W. Va. Code § 1-61-101(d).
   (F)   The provisions of this section do not apply to lawful acts of hunting,
fishing, trapping, or animal training or farm livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and maintained
according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane use of
animals or activities regulated under and in conformity with the provisions of
7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as both
statutes and regulations are in effect on the effective date of this section.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of division (A) above is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be confined in jail for a period of not less than 90
days nor more than one year, fined not less than $500 nor more than $3,000, or
both. The incarceration set forth in this division (G) is mandatory unless the
provisions of division (H) below are complied with.
   (H)   (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, no
person who has been convicted of a violation of the provisions of division (A)
or (B) above may be granted probation until the defendant has undergone a
complete psychiatric or psychological evaluation and the court has reviewed the
evaluation. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be indigent, he
or she is responsible for the cost of the evaluation.
      (2)   For any person convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B)
above, the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this section,
impose a requirement that he or she complete a program of anger management
intervention for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is
determined by the court to be indigent, he or she is responsible for the cost
of the program.
   (I)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a violation
of this section, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from
possessing, owning, or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period
of five years following entry of a misdemeanor conviction and 15 years
following entry of a felony conviction. A violation under this section is a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and forfeiture of the
animal.(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19)
§ 4-6 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hunt, kill, or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by
the use of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle, or any other means within the
corporate limits of the municipality, provided:
      (1)   Unless specifically provided for by ordinance and a special hunting
permit approved and provided for by City Council; and/or
      (2)   Unless on property consisting of 25 acres or more.
   (B)   In addition to any other prohibitions which may exist by law, it shall
be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge any firearms:
      (1)   Across or in any public road in this municipality, at any time;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any school or church; or
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any dwelling house.
   (C)   Any person violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. (Prior
Code, § 4-6)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-7 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the city so as to
create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a menace
to the health, comfort, or safety of the public. (Prior Code, § 4-7)
§ 4-8 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person, being the owner or having charge of cattle, horses, swine, sheep,
geese, ducks, goats, turkeys, chickens, or other fowl or animals, shall permit
them to run at large upon any public place, or upon any unenclosed lands or
upon the premises of another. (Prior Code, § 4-8)
§ 4-9 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to poison, or attempt to poison,
any animal or fowl of another person, or maliciously maim, kill, or cause the
death of any animal or fowl of another person.
   (B)   No poisoned meat or any poisonous substance shall be cast into any of
the streets, public places, or lots or buildings in the city for the purpose of
destroying dogs or other animals. (Prior Code, § 4-9)
§ 4-10 CITY IS BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area embraced within the boundaries of the city is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot, or
molest in any manner, any bird or wild fowl, or rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests; provided, however, if starlings, pigeons, or similar birds are found to
be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a
nuisance or menace to health or property, and in the opinion of Council no
satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then in such event
the Mayor shall then destroy such birds in such numbers and in such manner as
is deemed advisable by the Mayor under the supervision of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 4-10)
§ 4-11 CONTROL OF RABIES AND OTHER DISEASES.
   (A)   Each owner or person in charge of any dog, whether licensed or
unlicensed, or in charge of any other animal known to have or suspected of
having rabies or any other communicable disease, or known to have been bitten
by another animal having or suspected of having any such disease, shall
forthwith take such animal to a veterinarian for confinement and observation,
or securely confine such animal on his or her own premises, and, in either
case, notify the Mayor without delay, and he or she shall then obey the
directives given him or her by the Mayor. Animals so confined shall be
destroyed in a humane manner upon the finding of a veterinarian that they have
rabies or some other incurable communicable disease, and no animal shall be
released from such confinement until found by a veterinarian to be free of
rabies and other communicable disease.
   (B)   Rabid animals found at large within the city shall be destroyed
forthwith by the Humane Officer or by any police officer.
   (C)   Any person having knowledge of an animal known to have or suspected of
having rabies or any other communicable disease, shall forthwith notify the
Humane Officer and the Chief of Police, Mayor or City Recorder. If the owner or
person in charge of such animal can be found without undue delay, he or she
shall be notified by the Humane Officer, Chief of Police, Mayor, or City
Recorder to comply with the provisions of division (A) above forthwith;
otherwise, such animal shall be destroyed in a humane manner. (Prior Code, § 4-
11)
§ 4-12 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   No person, neither the owner of an animal or pet, or any person having
charge of an animal or pet, shall allow any such animal to deposit animal
excrement or other animal waste, or they shall promptly remove and sanitarily
dispose of animal waste left on public or private property. The owner or
handler of any animal shall be responsible for the removal of any animal waste
deposited on public walks, recreation areas, public streets, or private
property other than the premises of the owner of the animal.
   (B)   Excessive accumulation of animal waste on a pet owner’s property
creates unsanitary conditions that are offensive to neighbors and unsafe for
people and pets. A person commits an offense if the person deposits, causes to
be deposited, or permits to accumulate any dry or wet solid waste upon any
public or private premises within the city in such a manner as to emit noxious
or offensive odors, or to become unsanitary or injurious to public health or
safety.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day a section of this
section is violated shall constitute a separate offense. (Prior Code, § 4-12)
§ 4-13 HABITUAL ANIMAL NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dog, cat,
bird, or other animal which causes a noise disturbance by habitually howling,
barking, meowing, squawking, crying, or other noise making.
   (B)   HABITUAL HOWLING, BARKING, MEOWING, SQUAWKING, CRYING, or OTHER NOISE
MAKING shall be defined as repeated intervals of at least five minutes with
less than one minute of interruption. The noise must be audible off of the
owner’s or caretaker’s premises. (Prior Code, § 4-13)
§ 4-14 DUTY TO MAINTAIN PLACES WHERE PERMITTED ANIMALS ARE KEPT IN A SANITARY
CONDITION, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the duty of each owner or occupant of premises within the city
whereon any dog, cat, or other permitted animal which may lawfully be harbored
or maintained within the city to maintain the pen or other enclosure or place
where such animal is kept in a healthful and sanitary condition at all times,
free of offensive substances and liquids, at such place and in such manner as
not to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of any person, or an
annoyance to persons in the neighborhood thereof.
   (A)   No person owning or having custody of any animal shall permit any such
animal to defecate (soil) upon any school ground, public street, alley,
sidewalk, tree bank, park, or any other public grounds or any private property
within the municipality, other than the premises of the owner or person having
custody of the animal, unless said defecation (soiling) is removed immediately
and disposed of in an appropriate manner and container.
   (B)   Any person, upon conviction for failing to comply with this section,
shall pay a fine of $50 for the first offense and fine of $100 for each
additional offense. (Prior Code, § 4-14)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-15 DELEGATION.
   Wherever, in the foregoing sections, that duties in supervision, licensure,
enforcement, and the like are assigned to a named official such as the Mayor,
Humane Officer, or the City Recorder, those duties are delegable for either
partial or complete accomplishment to the Chief of Police, his or her officers
and staff, and to any other city employees whose aid in their enforcement the
Mayor or City Recorder may deem advisable. (Prior Code, § 4-15)
§ 4-16 DEAD ANIMALS AND FOWL; DISPOSITION OF CARCASSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any of the streets,
parks, public squares, or places, or upon any private lot or parcel of ground,
the carcass, or part of any carcass, of any animal, fowl, or bird within the
limits of the city, or at any point within one mile of the city limits if such
place outside the limits is so located that such carcass shall become offensive
to, or detrimental to, the health of the inhabitants of the neighborhood.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to bury within the city or within one mile of the
city the carcass, or part of a carcass, of any animal, fowl, or bird which has
died or been killed within the city, or that has been brought into the city;
but all such carcasses shall immediately after death be disposed of in a lawful
and sanitary manner.
   (C)   However, residents shall be allowed to bury pets on their private
property in a sanitary manner. (Prior Code, § 4-16)
§ 4-17 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF CARCASSES.
   (A)   (1)   When any dead animal, fowl, or bird is found in the streets,
public places, or private lots in the city, upon notice to the owner, such
owner shall remove the carcass and dispose of it in a lawful and sanitary
manner; failure to do so shall be a violation of this code.
      (2)   If the owner refuses or fails to do so within a reasonable time not
to excess 24 hours after such notice, the city may send a proper vehicle to
obtain such carcass and have it removed and disposed of, and render a bill for
such removal and disposal to the owner, if known, and shall place a duplicate
of such bill in the hands of the city collector for collection.
      (3)   The city collector shall have power to collect such amount in
accordance with state law and city code.
   (B)   When any animal, fowl, or bird shall be killed upon any of the streets
or public places within the city by any automobile, or other vehicle, being
driven over or upon the streets within the city, or by the horse or other
animal attached to any vehicle, it shall be the duty of the owner, driver, or
other person having such vehicle in his or her charge to at once remove such
carcass to the curbline, or if possible to some point out of the public view,
and to cover the carcass from view, and immediately thereafter remove, or cause
it to be removed, and lawfully disposed of in a sanitary manner. It shall be
violation for any person to refuse or neglect to carry out the provisions of
this division (B). (Prior Code, § 4-17)
§ 4-18 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint a Humane Officer or Officers with the
cooperation of the police to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall also be given the powers of the City Humane
Officer.
   (C)   The Mayor may combine together and form agreements with other
municipalities or county officials to assign duties as Humane Officer and
operate an animal shelter.
   (D)   The Mayor, with approval of the Council, may at his or her discretion,
empower Humane (Animal) Officers to issue citations for violations of this
chapter. (Prior Code, § 4-18)
§ 4-19 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If a complaint is filed with the Municipal Court and the complaint proves
valid proof or cause, a search warrant may be issued, and if in such search and
of the provisions of this chapter are found to be apparent, all animals shall
be taken, and also all persons dealing in or apart of such cruelty. All animals
shall be taken to the Humane Society and also all persons shall be taken for
arraignment before the Municipal Judge or County Magistrate. (Prior Code, § 4-
19)
§ 4-20 NO NEED FOR SEARCH WARRANT.
   Any authorized officer may enter, without a warrant, any building in which
the pitting of animals against each other is taking place, and possess all
animals and persons taking part in the fighting of these animals. (Prior Code,
§ 4-20)
§ 4-21 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise provided for, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific
penalty is provided for, the violation thereof shall be a fine not exceeding
$1,000. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Prior Code, § 4-21)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-22 ANIMALS ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or having charge of any animal, except
“seeing eye dogs,” shall fail to prevent such animal from going upon city
property when posted.
   (B)   Pets of any kind are prohibited on the grounds of the Pennsboro Miles
Stadium and Pennsboro Sullivan Gym.
   (C)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent or restrict the use
of trained K-9 units by law enforcement personnel.
   (D)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent or restrict the use
of officially certified service animals, as defined by the Department of
Justice published revised final regulations implementing the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. (ADA) for Title II
(state and local government services, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 through 12165)
and Title III (public accommodations and commercial facilities, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 12181 through 12189). Provided:
      (1)   Only dogs are recognized as service animals under Titles II and III
of the ADA, and a SERVICE ANIMAL is a dog that is individually trained to do
work or perform tasks for a person with a disability. The task(s) performed by
the dog must be directly related to the person’s disability;
      (2)   Dogs whose sole function is to provide emotional support, therapy,
comfort, or companion animals do not qualify as service animals under the ADA;
      (3)   Service dogs must be trained, qualified, and certified by an
authorized agency and registered with and approved by the city as an official
authorized service dog prior to being taken on city property;
      (4)   A service animal must be under the control of its handler. Under
the ADA, service animals must be harnessed, leashed, or tethered, unless the
individual’s disability prevents using these devices or these devices interfere
with the service animal’s safe, effective performance of tasks. In that case,
the individual must maintain control of the animal through voice, signal, or
other effective controls;
      (5)   A person with a disability can be asked to remove his or her
service animal from the premises if:
         (a)   The dog is out of control and the handler does not take
effective action to control it; or
         (b)   The dog is not housebroken.
      (6)   SERVICE ANIMALS are defined as dogs that are individually trained
to do work or perform tasks for people with disabilities. Examples of such work
or tasks include guiding people who are blind, alerting people who are deaf,
pulling a wheelchair, alerting and protecting a person who is having a seizure,
reminding a person with mental illness to take prescribed medications, calming
a person with post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) during an anxiety attack,
or performing other duties. Service animals are working animals, not pets. The
work or task a dog has been trained to provide must be directly related to the
person’s disability.
   (E)   (1)   No person, neither the owner of an animal or pet, or any person
having charge of an animal or pet, shall allow any such animal to deposit
animal excrement or other animal waste, or they shall promptly remove and
sanitarily dispose of animal waste left on public or private property as
provided in §
4-12.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $250 for each offense. Each day shall constitute a
separate offense. (Prior Code, § 4-22)
ARTICLE 1: LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
Section
   
4-100   Keeping farm animals
   
4-101   Swine or hogs
   
4-102   Sale of baby fowl
   
4-103   Roosters
§ 4-100 KEEPING FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to quarter any livestock or fowl on an
area of less than ten acres without the consent of the City Council and a
permit issued by the City Recorder.
   (B)   No person shall keep any kind of livestock, poultry, fowl, or pigeon
within 150 feet of any structure owned by another and used for human
habitation, occupation, or assembly, whether the structure is in the same or
adjacent block or square; nor shall any livestock, fowl, poultry, or pigeon be
permitted by the owner thereof to run, fly, stray, or otherwise be at large in
any streets of the city or in any lot or premises not in the possession or
under the control of the owner of such livestock, poultry, fowl, or pigeon.
   (C)   No person shall keep, or permit to be kept, within the corporate
limits any goat, cow, chicken, or other animal or fowl in a pen, or otherwise
confined in any lot, to the annoyance, detriment, or inconvenience of any
neighbor or the public.
   (D)   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect or maintain any cattle or
horse barn, or other structure wherein animals are kept, within 200 feet of any
permanently improved, open and used street or avenue within the city, or within
200 feet of any structure owned by another or used for human habitation,
occupation, or assembly, whether the structure is in the same or adjacent block
or square.
   (E)   Each stable, pen, coop, and other enclosure or place where any animal
or fowl is kept shall be so located and of such construction as to have
sufficient sanitary drainage to keep it dry at all times; and it shall be the
duty of each person owning, harboring, or keeping any animal or fowl to
maintain each enclosure or other place where such animal or fowl is kept in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times, free of any unwholesome or offensive
substance, liquid, or odor and so as not to constitute a nuisance. (Prior Code,
§ 4-100)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-101 SWINE OR HOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any swine
or hog within the corporate limits. (Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 4-102 SALE OF BABY FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale as pets or
novelties any artificially colored, sprayed, painted, or dyed baby chicks,
ducklings, goslings, turkeys, or other fowl. (Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 4-103 ROOSTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
roosters within the corporate limits. (Prior Code, § 4-103)
ARTICLE 2: DOGS
Section
   
4-200   Definition
   
4-201   Cruelty to dogs
   
4-202   K-9 units
   
4-203   Dogs at large trespassing upon or damaging property of another
   
4-204   Impounding animals
   
4-205   Retention and disposition of impounded dogs
   
4-207   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
4-207   Interference with persons acting under article
   
4-208   Seizing or enticing dogs
   
4-209   Keeping vicious dog
   
4-210   Muzzling dogs under proclamation by Mayor
   
4-211   Observation of dog biting a person
   
4-212   Confinement of female dogs in heat
   
4-213   Excrement
   
4-214   Vaccination of dogs
   
4-215   Cooperation with other government bodies
   
4-216   Administration and enforcement of article
   
4-217   Barking or howling dogs
   
4-218   Restriction on number of dogs
   
4-219   Removal of dogs from public gatherings
   
4-220   Dogs subject to taxation; declared to be personal property
   
4-221   Collection of head tax on dogs; duties of Assessor and Sheriff;
registration of dogs
   
4-222   Wearing of registration tag by dog
   
4-223   Failure to register dog; alteration or forging registration certificate
   
4-224   Dogs protected by law; unlawful killing thereof; aggrieved owner
remedy; penalty
§ 4-200 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Includes all members of the canine family, of either sex or at least
six months of age, unless otherwise specified hereinafter. (Prior Code, § 4-
200)
§ 4-201 CRUELTY TO DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly or needlessly beat, torture, torment,
mutilate, kill, or willfully deprive necessary sustenance to any dog,
irrespective of whether any such dog is his or her own or that of another
person. No person shall impound or confine any dog in any place unprotected
from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of food
and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog, or be engaged
in or employed at dog fighting, or pitting one dog to fight against another dog
or any similar cruelty to any dog, or receive money for the admission of any
person, or use, train, or possess a dog for the purpose of seizing, detaining,
or maltreating any other dog.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation thereof shall be a fine not
exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or both such fine
or imprisonment. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Prior Code, § 4-201)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-202 K-9 UNITS.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent or restrict the use
of trained K-9 units by law enforcement personnel. No person owning a dog shall
encourage or permit any dog, or other animal, owned or controlled by him or her
to attack, fight with, or annoy any K-9 unit.
   (B)   No person shall attack, obstruct, or attempt to injure or impede any
K-9 unit engaged in police activities while such unit is under the control and
direction of an authorized law enforcement officer. Any such act shall be an
obstruction of a police officer and prosecuted as such.
   (C)   No person shall attack, obstruct, or attempt to injure or impede any
K-9 unit engaged in police activities while such unit is under the control and
direction of an authorized law enforcement officer. (Prior Code, § 4-202)
§ 4-203 DOGS AT LARGE TRESPASSING UPON OR DAMAGING PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of a dog or a person harboring or keeping a dog shall
not allow such dog to roam at large in the city.
      (2)   The owner of a dog or the person harboring or keeping a dog shall
confine such dog at the owner’s premises, or the premises of such person
harboring or keeping such dog.
      (3)   No person shall take any dog into the streets, sidewalks, or public
places of the city unless such dog shall be upon a leash, or under effective
control.
   (B)   No person having the possession of a dog shall lead or take such dog
upon the private property of another without permission, or permit any such dog
to soil on, damage, or destroy the yard, flowers, or shrubbery of another
person, or otherwise trespass upon the property of another without permission.
   (C)   Any owner or keeper of any dog who permits such dog to run at large
shall be liable for any damages or inconvenience inflicted upon the person or
property of another by such dog while so running at large. (Prior Code, § 4-
203)
§ 4-204 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The humane officer shall cause to be seized and impounded any dog or
other animal at large in the city, whether licensed or unlicensed.
   (B)   Any dog so seized shall be impounded at the Humane Society or County
Animal Shelter unless and until the Mayor shall designate a different shelter.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
§ 4-205 RETENTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   Any dog seized and impounded, as provided in this article, shall be detained
for a period of five days, and if not redeemed by the owner or by the person
harboring such dog within the period applicable, shall be disposed of in such
manner and by such person as the Mayor names and designates; provided, that
whenever the name of any person appears on the collar of any dog so seized,
such person or owner shall forthwith be notified of such seizure, by telephone
where practicable, but in all cases by notice in writing addressed to him or
her and deposited in the United States mail. (Prior Code, § 4-205)
§ 4-206 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   The owner of, or person harboring, a dog which has been seized or
impounded, as provided in this article, shall be entitled to redeem the dog by
paying to the Humane Society, County Animal Shelter, or person in charge of
other pound or shelter where the dog is impounded, the redemption fees and
boarding charges levied by the pound or shelter.
   (B)   Whenever more than one dog belonging to the same owner has been
impounded on the same day, a single offense shall be deemed to have occurred.
Otherwise, each dog belonging to the same owner which has been impounded on
separate days shall be deemed to constitute separate offenses. The Humane
Officer shall maintain records of offenses committed by dog owners, and such
records shall be available for public inspection during regular office hours.
In addition to the above redemption fee, a boarding fee for each dog impounded
shall be charged for each day, or a fraction thereof, that the dog has been
impounded.
   (C)   The owner of, or person harboring, a dog not bearing a tag which has
been seized or impounded shall be entitled to redeem his or her dog upon
establishing his or her title thereto to the satisfaction of the Humane Officer
in charge of the dog, by securing a license for the dog, if such dog is not
licensed, and by paying to the county pursuant to a statement furnished such
owner or person by the Humane Officer in charge of such dog a redemption fee
for each day, or fraction thereof, that the dog has been impounded. (Prior
Code, § 4-206)
§ 4-207 INTERFERENCE WITH PERSONS ACTING UNDER ARTICLE.
   No person shall hinder, molest, or interfere with any person authorized or
empowered to perform any duty under this article, nor shall any person attach a
license tag to any dog to which it was not issued, or remove a license tag from
the collar of any dog without the consent of its owner. (Prior Code, § 4-207)
§ 4-208 SEIZING OR ENTICING DOGS.
   Except for persons duly authorized herein, no person shall entice any
properly licensed dog into any enclosure for the purpose of taking off its
collar or tag, or, for such purpose, decoy or entice any dog out of the
enclosure or house of its owner or possessor, or seize or molest any dog which
is held by any person, or bring any dog into the city for the purpose of
impounding and killing the dog. (Prior Code, § 4-208)
§ 4-209 KEEPING VICIOUS DOG.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog known by him or her to be
vicious, dangerous, or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, whether or
not such dog wears a muzzle, and upon satisfactory proof that such dog is
vicious, dangerous, or in the habit of biting or attacking persons or other
dogs or animals, the Humane Officer may cause such dog to be destroyed. (Prior
Code, § 4-209)
§ 4-210 MUZZLING DOGS UNDER PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR.
   Whenever it is made to appear to the Mayor that there are good reasons for
believing that any dog within the city is mad, he or she may issue a
proclamation requiring that all dogs shall, for a period to be defined in the
proclamation, wear good, substantial muzzles, securely put on, so as to prevent
them from biting or snapping, and any dog going at large, during the period
defined by the Mayor, without such muzzle, shall be taken by the Humane Officer
and impounded, as provided herein. (Prior Code, § 4-210)
§ 4-211 OBSERVATION OF DOG BITING A PERSON.
   Every person owning or harboring a dog in the city which shall bite any
person shall forthwith place the dog, at his or her own expense, in the custody
and care of a licensed veterinarian. (Prior Code, § 4-211)
§ 4-212 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   Every person owning or harboring a female dog shall keep such dog confined
for 25 days during the period of estrus. (Prior Code, § 4-212)
§ 4-213 EXCREMENT.
   Neither the owner of a dog or any person having charge of a dog, whether
such dog is on a leash or not, shall allow any such dog in his, her, or their
charge to deposit animal excrement or other animal waste upon private or public
property, or to damage any private or public property otherwise. (Prior Code, §
4-213)
§ 4-214 VACCINATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   Any person who keeps or harbors a dog within the boundaries of the
city shall have such dog properly vaccinated or immunized against rabies, as
required by the W. Va. Code § 19-20A (vaccination of dogs and cats).
   (B)   Whoever obtains an unvaccinated dog shall at once have such dog
properly vaccinated against rabies. Failure to do so shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-214)
§ 4-215 COOPERATION WITH OTHER GOVERNMENT BODIES.
   In carrying out the intent and provisions of this article, the city is
expressly authorized to enter into agreements with other municipalities and the
County Commission for the purchase of necessary equipment and supplies,
employment of necessary personnel, operation and maintenance of a dog pound,
and all other matters relating to the provisions of this article, and to share
the cost thereof with other municipalities and the County Commission on a joint
and mutual basis. (Prior Code, § 4-215)
§ 4-216 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE.
   It shall be the duty of the Humane Officer or Officers appointed by the
Mayor, with the cooperation of the Police Department, to administer and enforce
the provisions of this article; and the Humane Officer or Officers shall,
whenever they encounter an offense under this article, issue a summons to such
offender for appearance in the Municipal Court. (Prior Code, § 4-216)
§ 4-217 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, maintain, or otherwise, by act or omission, keep
a dog which, by barking, howling, crying, or in any other noise-making manner,
disturbs the peace, comfort, or quiet of any neighborhood within the city.
   (B)   For purposes of enforcing this section, the Humane Officer, Mayor, or
police officer, when the Humane Officer is not on duty or scheduled to be
working, may cause a citation to be issued and served on the owner, owners, or
caretakers or providers of any such dog barking, howling, crying, or in any
other noise-making manner disturbing the peace, comfort, or quiet of any
neighborhood within the city. A citation may be issued without impounding the
dog if the owner, owners, or care takers or providers of any such dog are
immediately present, or make their presence known, and immediately take control
over such dog and cause the same to be and remain quiet, such as taking the dog
inside where it cannot be heard, and keeping it inside. The citation may be
issued and served after the impounding of said dog if the owner, owners, or
caretakers or providers are not present, or make their presence immediately
known to the Humane Officer, Mayor, or police officer on the premises where the
dog is present and violating this section, if the identity of such dog owner,
owners, or care taker or provider cannot be readily ascertained, if the dog is
running at large, or if such person fails to immediately take control over such
dog and cause the same to be and remain quiet, such as taking the dog inside
where it cannot be heard, and keeping it inside, provided that the citation
shall be issued and served on the dog owner, owners, or caretakers or providers
as soon after the dog has been impounded as possible, and the owner, owners, or
caretakers or providers of any such dog shall be afforded an opportunity to be
heard at the next regularly scheduled session of Municipal Court after service
of the citation on such person. Service of the citation on the dog owner,
owners, or caretakers or providers of any such dog may be in person, on any
person over the age of 16 years present at the residence of such person, or by
any other manner or method permitted by law, or in accordance with Rule 4 of
the “Rules of Civil Procedure” adopted and approved by the Supreme Court of
Appeals of the state. (Prior Code, § 4-217)
§ 4-218 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or permit his or her premises to harbor
more than two dogs on any lot, premises, dwelling, building, structure, boat,
or living accommodation unless:
      (1)   Properly licensed as a commercial kennel in compliance with city
ordinance; or
      (2)   Approved for a special permit under the provisions of §
4-503.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the authority
of the City Council to declare maintaining two or fewer adult dogs a nuisance
if it should find that such a nuisance exists, and to order the abatement of
that nuisance. Any person found in violation of this section shall have 30 days
from the date of notice of violation to apply to the Council for the required
permit. Any person who fails to apply for the required permit within 30 days
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50 per day for each day following
the initial 30-day notice period. (Prior Code, § 4-218)
§ 4-219 REMOVAL OF DOGS FROM PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any dog at a public gathering after any Humane
Officer, police officer, Mayor, or the City Recorder has determined that the
presence or conduct of the dog may jeopardize the health, safety, or welfare of
any person attending the gathering.
   (B)   Any such dog shall be promptly removed from such public place by its
owner upon oral notification from the officer. (Prior Code, § 4-219)
§ 4-220 DOGS SUBJECT TO TAXATION; DECLARED TO BE PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Any dog shall be declared to be personal property, and any dog above the age
of six months shall be subject to taxation. (Prior Code, § 4-220)
§ 4-221 COLLECTION OF HEAD TAX ON DOGS; DUTIES OF ASSESSOR AND SHERIFF;
REGISTRATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Assessor and Sheriff, as required
by state law, to collect the municipal tax on dogs over six months of $1 for
every male or spayed female, and $2 for every unspayed female. If the tax is
not paid within 15 days of its assessment, then the Sheriff shall have the
right to impound the dog. For such services an extra $1.50 shall be added to
the fee. The Sheriff shall keep the dog for 15 days, after which if the
delinquent tax payer does not pay this tax the Sheriff shall sell the dog and,
after taking out the money required for the tax and up-keep of the dog, return
that sum to the delinquent taxpayer. Should the Sheriff fail to sell the dog he
or she shall dispose of it.
   (B)   When the tax is assessed the Assessor and Sheriff shall put down the
age, sex, color, character of hair (long or short), and breed, and the name and
address of the keeper of the dog. He or she shall then give him or her a
certificate of registration and a registration tag of such dog.
   (C)   The assessor shall be allowed to keep 10% of all tax collected and
return 90% back to the Treasurer of the city. (Prior Code, § 4-221)
§ 4-222 WEARING OF REGISTRATION TAG BY DOG.
   Every registered dog shall, at all times, wear a valid registration tag
issued as provided in this article. The failure to have displayed or worn on
any dog of such tag shall be first evidence that such dog is not registered and
the dog is subject to be impounded, sold, or destroyed.
   (A)   Every dog shall, at all times, wear a collar with the owner’s name,
telephone number, and/or address affixed thereto. Failure to have a collar
shall be prima facie evidence that such dog is not owned and such dog shall be
subject to be and shall be impounded, sold, or destroyed as provided.
   (B)   Every registered dog shall at all times wear a valid registration tag
issued as provided in this article. The failure to have displayed or worn on
any dog of such tag shall be first evidence that such dog is not registered and
the dog is subject to be impounded, sold, or destroyed. (Prior Code, § 4-222)
§ 4-223 FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG; ALTERATION OR FORGING REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any person who keeps or owns any dog subject to registration under the
provisions of this article who fails, refuses, or neglects to register such
dog, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and come under any penalty that may be
imposed by the County Assessor as an officer of this state.
   (B)   Any person who forges or alters any certificate or tag, or says such
to be valid when he or she knows it is invalid, or permits any dog owned by him
or her to wear fake or invalid tags, shall be also be under any penalties
imposed by the Assessor. (Prior Code, § 4-223)
§ 4-224 DOGS PROTECTED BY LAW; UNLAWFUL KILLING THEREOF; AGGRIEVED OWNER
REMEDY; PENALTY.
   Any dog which is registered, or any dog regardless of age who shall be owned
and kept by any person, shall be protected by the law and any person who shall
unlawfully steel, kill, or injure, administer poison, or knowing expose the
same, intentionally causing the death of some dog, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior Code, § 4-224)
ARTICLE 3: CATS
Section
   
4-300   Definition
   
4-301   Cruelty to cats
   
4-302   Noisy cats
   
4-303   Roaming at large
   
4-304   Restriction on number of cats
   
4-305   Wearing of collar by cat
   
4-306   Cats at large trespassing upon or damaging property of another
§ 4-300 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. All members of the feline family, of either sex, at least six months
old, unless otherwise specified hereinafter. (Prior Code, § 4-300)
§ 4-301 CRUELTY TO CATS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly or needlessly beat, torture, torment,
mutilate, kill, or willfully deprive necessary sustenance to any cat,
irrespective of whether any such cat is his or her own or that of another
person. No person shall impound or confine any cat in any place unprotected
from the elements, or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of
food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased cat, or be
engaged in or employed at cat fighting, or pitting one cat to fight against
another cat, or any similar cruelty to any cat, or receive money for the
admission of any person, or use, train, or possess a cat for the purpose of
seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other cat.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation thereof shall be a fine not
exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or both such fine or
imprisonment. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Prior Code, § 4-301)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-302 NOISY CATS.
   No person shall own or keep within the city any cat which shall, by
squalling, crying, or in any other manner whatsoever, disturb the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood. (Prior Code, § 4-302)
§ 4-303 ROAMING AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of any cat shall permit it to roam at large within the
city at any time, except on the property owned or occupied by the owner of such
cat. Any cat found roaming at large in violation of this section shall be
seized by the Animal Warden and forthwith impounded at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
§ 4-304 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF CATS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or permit his or her premises to harbor
more than two cats on any lot, premises, dwelling, building, structure, boat,
or living accommodation unless approved for a special permit under the
provisions of §
4-504.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the authority
of the City Council to declare maintaining two or fewer adult cats a nuisance
if it should find that such a nuisance exists, and to order the abatement of
that nuisance. Any person found in violation of this section shall have 30 days
from the date of notice of violation to apply to the Council for the required
permit. Any person who fails to apply for the required permit within 30 days
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50 per day for each day following
the initial 30-day notice period. (Prior Code, § 4-304)
§ 4-305 WEARING OF COLLAR BY CAT.
   Every cat shall at all times wear a collar with the owner’s name, telephone
number, and/or address affixed thereto. Failure to have a collar shall be prima
facie evidence that such cat is not owned and such cat shall be subject to be
and shall be impounded, sold, or destroyed as provided. The collar shall be a
break away safety collar for cats. (Prior Code, § 4-305)
§ 4-306 CATS AT LARGE TRESPASSING UPON OR DAMAGING PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   The owner of a cat, or a person harboring or keeping a cat, shall not
allow such cat to roam at large in the city. The owner of a cat, or the person
harboring or keeping a cat, shall confine such cat at the owner’s premises, or
the premises of such person harboring or keeping such cat. No person shall take
any cat into the streets, sidewalks, or public places of the city unless such
cat shall be upon a leash, or under effective control.
   (B)   No person having the possession of a cat shall lead or take such cat
upon the private property of another without permission, or permit any such or
cat to soil on, damage, or destroy the yard, flowers, or shrubbery of another
person, or otherwise trespass upon the property of another without permission.
   (C)   Any owner or keeper of any cat who permits such cat to run at large
shall be liable for any damages or inconvenience inflicted upon the person or
property of another by such cat while so running at large. (Prior Code, § 4-
306)
ARTICLE 4: EXOTIC AND WILD ANIMALS
Section
   
4-400   Keeping wild and exotic animals
   
4-401   Limitations on wild and exotic animals
   
4-402   Animals at large
   
4-403   Wolves
   
4-404   Exempt
   
4-405   Notification of exotic animals
   
4-406   Chiefs authorized to notify 911 Center
§ 4-400 KEEPING WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor within the city any panther, wildcat, or
bobcat, or bear, wolf, fox, or any other wild or exotic animal of a species
normally dangerous to human beings, or not commonly described as domestic pet
or any skunk from which the perinea glands have not been removed, or any
venomous reptile or any snake of a constrictor species, except pursuant to
authority of a city license or permit which may be issued by special action of
the Council, however no dangerous animal shall be permitted. (Prior Code, § 4-
400)
§ 4-401 LIMITATIONS ON WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No exotic, wild, or reptilian animal shall be on public or city property or
roadway, or transported or taken to another person’s property, unless the same
is placed in a secure and animal approved device made for the transport and
securing of animals, and animals must remain in such. (Prior Code, § 4-401)
§ 4-402 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of any exotic, wild, or reptilian animal shall permit it
to roam or be at large, or removed from its cage, within the city at any time
except on the owner’s property. (Prior Code, § 4-402)
§ 4-403 WOLVES.
   Wolves and wolf hybrids shall not be kept or maintained in the city. (Prior
Code, § 4-403)
§ 4-404 EXEMPT.
   Circuses, zoos, fairs, and the State Wild Life Department are exempt from
permit requirements and conditions of this article, however animals shall be
secured at all times. (Prior Code, § 4-404)
§ 4-405 NOTIFICATION OF EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   The City Recorder shall have the authority to report to the City Chief of
Police and Fire Department the type, number, and address for the location of
any special permit animals. (Prior Code, § 4-405)
§ 4-406 CHIEFS AUTHORIZED TO NOTIFY 911 CENTER.
   The City Chief of Police and/or Chief of the Fire Department may notify the
County 911 Center requesting that calls dispatching emergency personnel to that
location be notified of the type and number of special permit animals at that
location. (Prior Code, § 4-406)
ARTICLE 5: PERMITS
Section
   
4-500   Breeding permit
   
4-501   Permit to keep animals and fowl
   
4-502   Wild or exotic animal permit
   
4-503   Restriction on number of dogs; special permit
   
4-504   Restriction on number of cats; special permit
   
4-505   Kennel permit
§ 4-500 BREEDING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow any dog or cat owned, harbored, or kept
within the city to breed without first obtaining a breeding permit, as
described below. The term BREEDING PERMIT means a written authorization, issued
annually by the City Recorder, giving its lawful holder permission to breed a
dog or cat. Each breeding permit shall be valid for year from the date of
issuance, and may be renewed annually before its expiration date. Each
applicant for such a permit shall pay an annual fee of $30 per dog or cat. A
separate permit must be obtained for each owned dog or cat which is allowed to
breed.
   (B)   The Humane Officer shall enforce the animal breeding permit program to
allow the breeding of dogs and cats that are not sterilized consistent with
criteria herein. Under no circumstances shall such a permit be issued to a
person who has been convicted of animal cruelty or neglect. All breeding
permits shall contain the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   The owner of a female dog or cat that is not sterilized shall not
allow the breeding of more than one litter per animal in any household within
the permit year. Notwithstanding this provision, the City Clerk is hereby
authorized, upon application of a permittee, a one-time basis may be allowed
for the breeding of up to two dog or cat litters per breeding animal within any
domestic household within a permit year. In the event, that a permittee is
forced to euthanize a litter of dogs or cats for medical reasons, the City
Recorder may authorize the breeding of one additional litter of dogs or cats
within the same permit year by the permittee without penalty.
      (2)   The penalty for conviction of violation of division (A) above shall
be a fine of $150 for each violation. This penalty shall not be waived by the
transfer or abandonment of the animal by the non-compliant owner.
      (3)   The City Recorder may revoke any permit issued pursuant to this
section upon a finding that the permit holder has violated its terms and
conditions. Such a finding shall be made only after giving the owner of the
animal in question notice of the violations and an opportunity to explain such
violations to the City Recorder.
   (C)   Breeding permits shall not be issued for puppy or kitten mills, or
commercial breeding of animals. (Prior Code, § 4-500)
§ 4-501 PERMIT TO KEEP ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   [Repealed by city.]   (Prior Code, § 4-501)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 4-502 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL PERMIT.
   A wild or exotic animal permit may be issued on approval of the Council,
with rules and conditions established by resolution for that permit. An annual
fee shall be collected each fiscal year in the amount of $20. Upon the failure
of any owner or occupant of any premises to comply with any of the provisions
of this article, such wild or exotic animal shall be deemed a nuisance, and as
such shall be removed or abated as provided by law. (Prior Code, § 4-502)
§ 4-503 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF DOGS; SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   The intent of the special permit application is to allow responsible
pet owners to keep or harbor more than two dogs if adequate conditions exist in
which the animals will not cause damage, hazard, nuisance, or be a detriment to
any persons or property.
   (B)   Any person desiring to keep or harbor more than two dogs shall submit
a written application for a special permit with the City Recorder. The special
permit application shall include a copy of a site plan of the subject property
showing all structures, fences, and open space.
   (C)   The City Recorder may grant a special permit if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The subject property is larger than 6,500 square feet, unless the
dogs are kept predominately indoors;
      (2)   The dogs must be kept indoors; or in a secure area with a fence of
sufficient height and durability to prohibit the dog(s) from escaping; or in a
secure area effectively controlled by electronic device; and
      (3)   Adequate shelter, as defined by the Humane Association, be provided
for each dog.
   (D)   Applicants shall not be eligible for a special permit if they are
known in the neighborhood or community for causing disruptions related to dogs.
   (E)   Applicants shall maintain standards for cleanliness, sanitation,
freedom from offensive odors, noise, and overcrowding.
   (F)   Special permits are non-transferable. A change in the number or type
of dogs, or changes in the residence or ownership of the dogs shall require a
new special permit.
   (G)   The fee for a special permit shall be $25 per dog each year for any
dog over the limit of two.
   (H)   The City Recorder may revoke any permit issued pursuant to this
section upon a finding that the permit holder had violated its terms and
conditions. Such a finding shall be made only after giving the owner of the
animal in question notice of the violations and an opportunity to explain such
violations to the City Recorder.
   (I)   Any person aggrieved by the denial or granting of a special permit
shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. (Prior Code, § 4-503)
§ 4-504 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF CATS; SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   The intent of the special permit application is to allow responsible
pet owners to keep or harbor more than two cats if adequate conditions exist in
which the animals will not cause damage, hazard, nuisance, or be a detriment to
any persons or property.
   (B)   Any person desiring to keep or harbor more than two cats shall submit
a written application for a special permit with the City Recorder. The special
permit application shall include a copy of a site plan of the subject property
showing all structures, fences, and open space.
   (C)   The City Recorder may grant a special permit if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The cats must be kept indoors; or in a secure area with a fence of
sufficient height and durability to prohibit the cat(s) from escaping; or in a
secure area effectively controlled by electronic device; and
      (2)   Adequate shelter, as defined by the Humane Association, be provided
for each cat.
   (D)   Applicants shall not be eligible for a special permit if they are
known in the neighborhood or community for causing disruptions related to cats.
   (E)   Special permits are non-transferable. A change in the number or type
of cats, or changes in the residence or ownership of the cats shall require a
new special permit.
   (F)   The fee for a special permit shall be $25 per cat each year for any
cat over the limit of two.
   (G)   A previously approved special permit may be rejected or revoked at any
time if the humane officer determines the issuance of a special permit has
caused damage, hazard, nuisance, dangerous conditions, or is a detriment to any
person or property.
   (H)   The City Recorder may revoke any permit issued pursuant to this
section upon a finding that the permit holder had violated its terms and
conditions. Such a finding shall be made only after giving the owner of the
animal in question notice of the violations and an opportunity to explain such
violations to the City Recorder.
   (I)   Any person aggrieved by the denial or granting of a special permit
shall have the right to appeal to City Council. (Prior Code, § 4-504)
§ 4-505 KENNEL PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who desires to own or operate a kennel within the municipal
boundaries of the city must obtain a kennel permit.
   (B)   An annual fee of $50 shall be assessed for kennel permits.
   (C)   Kennels shall be inspected every six months and whenever determined
prudent by the Mayor.
   (D)   Kennel permits shall not be issued for the purpose of puppy or kitten
mills, or breading of animals.
   (E)   Kennel permits shall only be issued after completion of the same
standards as for a permit to keep animals or fowl. The Council shall reserve
the authority to refuse any kennel permit.
   (F)   Kennel permits shall be issued for the lodging and training of animals
only. (Prior Code, § 4-505)
ARTICLE 6: SPAYING AND NEUTERING
Section
   
4-600   Spaying and neutering
   
4-601   Violation
§ 4-600 SPAYING AND NEUTERING.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the city by reducing the number of stray dogs and
cats. The Council finds that each year millions of dogs and cats are euthanized
because they are not wanted. It is the purpose of this section to eliminate the
excessive number of unwanted animals and thereby stop the needless killing of
these animals by restricting the breeding practices of pet owners and breeders
through legislation that is both reasonable and enforceable. It shall be
unlawful to own, possess, or keep in the city any dog or cat over the age of
six months that has not been spayed or neutered except as provided herein.
   (A)   Owners must alter their dogs and cats, unless:
      (1)   The pet is less than six months old;
      (2)   The owner has obtained an unaltered animal permit from the City
Clerk to keep the pet intact, with the cost of such permit to be $75 per
animal, for the life of the animal. Half to be deposited in the General Fund
and half to be deposited with the authority taking possession of animals for
the city;
      (3)   A licensed veterinarian states, in writing, that the animal is
medically unfit to undergo the procedure; or
      (4)   The animal is kept in the city for fewer than 30 days in a one-year
period.
   (B)   To qualify for an unaltered animal permit, the owner must:
      (1)   Satisfy the City Recorder that the permit is sought for a proper
purpose, or purchase a breeding permit;
      (2)   Have the pet examined regularly by a licensed veterinarian;
      (3)   Have the pet vaccinated in accordance with city ordinance and state
law;
      (4)   Have the pet housed properly; and
      (5)   Have had no more than one violation of the animal code in the
preceding 24 months. (Prior Code, § 4-600)
§ 4-601 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person cited with a violation of §
4-600 shall have 15 days from the date of issuance of a summons for violation
to comply, and if so done his or her citation shall be dismissed.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
4-600 shall be fined $10 per day for each day such violation continues after
they have been notified to correct the violation. (Prior Code, § 4-601)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
CHAPTER 5: HOUSING AND BUILDING STANDARDS
   Article
      
0.   IN GENERAL
      
1.   BUILDING CODE AND PERMITS
      
2.   SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
3.   REGISTRATION OF PROPERTY
      
4.   DWELLINGS, MODULAR HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOMES, AND THE LIKE
      
5.   DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
      
6.   FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE
ARTICLE 0: IN GENERAL
Section
   
5-1   Definitions
   
5-2   Creation of Housing Authority
   
5-3   Buildings Commission created
   
5-4   Duties of Municipal Court
   
5-5   Building Inspector
   
5-6   Director of Health
   
5-7   Regulations of health
   
5-8   All Commissions to report to Mayor
   
5-9   Severability
   
5-10   Conflicts
   
5-11   No duty to enforce
   
5-12   Transfer of ownership
   
5-13   Hardships and appeals
   
5-14   Condemnation
   
5-15   Reoccupation
   
5-16   Penalties
   
5-17   Municipal inspection
§ 5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT. W. Va. Code §§ 8-33 et seq.
      AUTHORITY. The organized corporate body known as the Municipal Housing
Authority.
      BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The office of the Building Inspector.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector, or his or her authorized
representative.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground,
having one-half or more of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below average
grade of the adjoining ground.
      CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR AND APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The Mayor, with the
approval of the governing body when required.
      COMMISSIONER. One of the members of the Municipal Housing Authority,
appointed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used, or intended to be
used, for living or sleeping by human occupants.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used for living,
sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector, or his or her
representative, or such other person(s) who is invested with the duty of
administering and enforcing the Electrical Code.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests.
      FAMILY. One or more persons living together, whether related by blood,
marriage, adoption, or through having common housekeeping facilities.
      FAULTY WEATHER PROTECTION. Deterioration or ineffective waterproofing or
exterior walls, roof, foundations, or floors, including broken windows and
doors.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes; excluding bathrooms,
water compartments, laundries, pantries, foyer, or communicating corridors,
closets, and storage space.
      INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building, or portions of any building, which is
designated, built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied as the home
or residence of more than two families living independently of each other, and
shall include flats and apartments.
      OCCUPANT. Any person(s) over the age of one year, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or a
part of said building.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, or jointly or severally with others, has
legal title to any dwelling unit or other properties with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall have charge, care, or control
of any dwelling or dwelling unit, or other properties as OWNER or agent of the
OWNER, or as executor, executrix, administrator, administered, trustee, or
guardian of the estate of the OWNER. Any such person representing the actual
owner shall be bound by the provisions of this chapter to the same extent as if
he or she were the OWNER.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. The owner of the title or a mortgage, whose inters
if shown of record, or the agent of any such person and those in possession of
a dwelling.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or
organization of any kind.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes,
water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
baths, and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections
to water, sewer, or gas lines.
      PLUMBING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT. The office of the building inspector or
other such office as may be charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions
of the Plumbing Code.
      PLUMBING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector, or his or her authorized
representative, or such other person who may be charged with the duty of
administrating the provisions of the Plumbing Code.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is rented by the owner or operator to
four or more persons who are not husband and wife, son, daughter, mother or
father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      TECHNICAL CODE. Any Building Code, Plumbing Code, Electrical Code, or any
other codes which are adopted by the governing body and are applicable under
this chapter.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      SHARED AREA. Any area not capable of division, such as halls in which
occupants of more than one living unit or commercial or industrial unit follow
the same course of ingress or egress, or common utility rooms.
   (B)   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the words DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING
UNIT, and PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”(Prior Code, § 5-1)
Cross reference:
   Building Inspector, see §
5-5
§ 5-2 CREATION OF HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby formed, created, and established a municipal building
commission, which shall have all of the powers set forth in W. Va. Code §§ 8-33
et seq., referred to in this article as “the Act,” and which shall be known as
the City Municipal Housing Authority.
   (B)   The City Municipal Housing Authority shall be a public corporation and
shall have perpetual existence in accordance with the Act.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint Commissioners of the Housing Authority, and
these shall be confirmed by Council.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of said Housing Authority shall consist of five
members, of whom no more than two-thirds shall be from the same political
party; no member shall hold any office (other than the office of notary public)
or employment under the United States of America, the state, any county,
municipality, or political subdivision thereof, or any political party; all
members shall be residents of the city, and no member shall receive any
compensation for services as such, but shall be reimbursed by said Board for
reasonable and necessary expenses authorized and actually incurred in the
discharge of his or her duties.
      (2)   The Commissioners who are first appointed shall be designated to
serve for terms of one, two, three, four, and five years respectively.
      (3)   As the term of each initial appointee expires, the successor who
shall fill the vacancy created by such expiration shall be appointed for a term
of five years. Each member of the Board shall have one vote on all matters
coming before the Board. Any individual who is a resident of the city shall be
eligible to serve as a member of the Board. The city shall inform the authority
of its appointments or reappointments to the Board by delivering to the
Commission a copy of the order or resolution making such appointment or re-
appointment.
      (4)   If any member of the Board dies, resigns, or for any other reason
ceases to be a member of the Board prior to expiration of his or her term, the
Council shall appoint another individual to serve the unexpired portion of the
term of such individual. Such member shall remain a member of the Board until
his or her successor is appointed.
   (E)   For inefficiency, misconduct, or neglect of duty, a Commissioner shall
be removed by the Mayor, but a Commissioner shall be removed only after he or
she has been given an opportunity to be heard at a hearing, either in person or
by Council. A copy of the charges shall be given to him or her at least ten
days before the date of such hearing. In the event of the removal of any
Commissioner, a record of the proceedings, together with charges and findings
thereon, shall be fixed in the office of the Municipal Recorder.
   (F)   The City Municipal Housing Authority shall not undertake any projects
or financing therefor without the prior written approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All powers and authority of the Commission shall be as described in
the W. Va. Code §§ 8-33-3 and 8-33-4, as amended from time to time. (Prior
Code, § 5-2)
§ 5-3 BUILDINGS COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   There is created an enforcement agency to be known as the Buildings
Commission. Such agency shall be composed of the Mayor, the Building Inspector,
and one member at large, to be selected by and to serve at the will and
pleasure of the Mayor. The Director of Health, or his or her representative,
and the Fire Chief shall serve as ex officio members of the Commission. The
Mayor shall serve as Chairperson, and the Commission shall elect a Vice-
Chairperson. The City Recorder shall serve as Secretary of the Commission. A
majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. A permanent record shall
be kept in the City Recorder’s office, and shall be open to inspection by any
party in interest. The Commission shall have authority to make rules and
regulations, not contrary to law, for the purpose of carrying into effect the
purpose of this article.
   (B)   In order to perform its duties effectively and protect the public
interests, the Commission, or any member thereof, or any person delegated by
the Commission for the purpose, shall have authority to go upon and inspect any
building or any part thereof, provided, that such entrance and inspection shall
be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the
persons in possession.
   (C)   Upon information received from any person or as a result of its own
investigation, the Commission may issue a complaint in Municipal Court against
any building and the owner thereof. Such complaint shall definitely locate the
building, shall describe the conditions complained of, and the court shall set
a date and place for a hearing on the question of whether the building is unfit
for human habitation or is unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the
public welfare. The complaint shall be served upon the owner in accordance with
the law of the state, and shall, in addition thereto, be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint. Service shall be
made at least ten days prior to the hearing, except that in case of an
emergency endangering the life or health of the occupants of the building or
other parties, the time may be shortened. At such hearing, the owner may appear
in person or by agent or counsel, and may examine any witnesses who testify and
may offer evidence in his or her own behalf. Either the Commission or the owner
may have the entire evidence taken down and preserved, and shall pay the
expense thereof, but the question of who shall be finally liable therefor shall
await the final determination of the cause. A lessee whose interests are
substantially affected may appear and be heard in the same manner as the owner.
In the case of the non-residence of the owner or other circumstances requiring
publication of notice, a copy of the complaint may be published in a newspaper
published in the city once a week for three successive weeks.
   (D)   (1)   If, in the opinion of the court, at such hearing that the
building in question is unfit for habitation or is unsafe, unsanitary,
dangerous, or detrimental to the public welfare, the court shall enter an
order, as recommended by the Commission or, in the court’s opinion, requiring
that such building be closed or demolished, or in a proper case, setting forth
such repairs as are considered necessary in order to make the building
reasonably suited for human habitation, or to make it safe and sanitary and not
dangerous or detrimental to the public. The order shall fix a date when such
work shall be begun and a date for its completion, which latter date may, for
cause, be extended. The owner may, within the time fixed in the order therefor,
notify the court and Commission of his or her intention to comply with the
order, in which case the work shall be done under the supervision of the City
Building Inspector. When the work has been completed in accordance with the
order and approved by the Building Commission, an order shall be entered by
such Commission approving the work to the court and closing the case. If the
owner shall fail to proceed with the work in the manner or according to the
schedule set forth in the order, it shall be the duty of the Commission to take
the work in hand and complete it as though the owner had never elected to
perform it himself or herself.
      (2)   If, within the time provided in the order, the owner fails to
notify the Commission of his or her election to do the work required, the
Commission shall proceed to have such work done, either by contract or by the
purchase of necessary material and the employment of workers and equipment.
   (E)   (1)   Following completion of the work ordered by the Building
Commission, the Building Inspector shall certify to the Commission the costs of
such repairs, alterations, improvements, closing, or removal or demolition of
such building. The City Recorder shall record such certificate as a lien in the
office of the Clerk of the County Commission, which lien shall not exceed the
assessed value of the property as recorded in the office of the County
Assessor.
      (2)   As alternative to division (D)(1) above, the Commission may
instruct the City Solicitor to institute a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction against the land owner or other responsible party for all costs
incurred by the municipality with respect to the property, and for reasonable
attorney’s fees and court costs incurred in the prosecution of the action. In
such case, not less than ten days prior to instituting a civil action as
provided for in this section, the City Recorder of the municipality shall send
notice to the land owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, advising
the land owner of the governing body’s intention to institute such action. Such
notice shall be sent to the most recent address to the land owner of record in
the office of the Assessor of the county where the subject property is located.
If, for any reason, such certified mail is returned without evidence of proper
receipt thereof, then in such event the governing body shall cause a Class II
legal advertisement to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county wherein the subject property is located, and post notice on the
front door or other conspicuous location on the subject property.
   (F)   The owner or lessee of the property shall have the right to apply to
the Circuit Court of the county for a temporary injunction restraining the
Commission pending final disposition of the cause, and a hearing shall be had
by the court within 20 days, or as soon thereafter as possible, to enter such
final order or decree as law and justice may require. Costs shall be imposed in
the discretion of the court. Fines for non-compliance shall be assessed from
the date of first order given, and each day thereafter shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever shall contemptuously and in bad faith violate or fail to
comply with any order of the Buildings Commission or Municipal Court shall, for
each and every such violation and non-compliance respectively, be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and punishment shall be a fine not exceeding $1,000. Each day
any such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Provided,
that no conviction shall be had hereunder without such order having been
entered at an open session of the Municipal Court wherein the violator was
present, or without personal service of the order having been made upon the
violator. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue, and all violators shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects in a reasonable time. When not
otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Where any such structure is owned by a corporation rather than by
an individual, then the officer of the corporation responsible for the
maintenance of the structure shall be jointly and severally liable with the
corporation hereunder.
      (3)   The above penalties shall be in addition to other remedies of the
Buildings Commission. (Prior Code, § 5-3)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city November 16, 2015.
§ 5-4 DUTIES OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall:
   (A)   Upon timely receipt of a request for a hearing, give written notice to
the parties concerned of the time and place of the hearing;
   (B)   Hold a hearing and hear all competent testimony offered by the
Building Official, or his or her designee, and any party concerned relative to
the substandard building or structure;
   (C)   Make written findings of fact as to whether or not the building or
structure in question is substandard within the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   If the building or structure is found to be substandard and a public
nuisance, issue an order directing the appropriate party or parties concerned
to abate the nuisance by repair, vacation, or demolition of the building or
structure, as the facts may warrant under the standards provided in this
chapter, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days;
   (E)   If the party or parties concerned fail(s) to comply with the order
provided herein, cause such building or structure to be repaired, vacated, or
demolished as the facts may warrant under the standards provided in this
chapter;
   (F)   Cause the cost of such work performed by the city to be charges as a
tax lien against the real property upon which the nuisance was abated, and to
assess a fine against the said party or parties in accordance with §
1-106. Fines for non-compliance shall be assessed from the date of the first
order given, and each day thereafter shall constitute a separate offense; and
   (G)   Where it reasonably appears that immediate action to repair, vacate,
or demolish a substandard building or structure is necessary to protect life or
property, the Municipal Court shall cause such immediate repair, vacation, or
demolition and charge the costs to the property owner. (Prior Code, § 5-4)
§ 5-5 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Building Inspector, who shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of Council. The Building Inspector
shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Mayor and/or Council.
   (B)   He, she, or they shall demonstrate suitable knowledge of building and
construction standards, and familiarity of the State Building Code, being W.
Va. Code § 15A-11-5, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
designated limits of the city. One copy of the code, certified by the City
Recorder, shall be available to the public for inspection and use during all
regular business hours.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall administer and enforce the Building Codes
of the city and all other laws, ordinances, and regulations under which
building, construction, and occupancy permits are required, and shall conduct
inspections of properties throughout the city in connection with such
administration and enforcement. The Building Inspector shall report any persons
who violate such Building Codes, laws, regulations, and ordinances to the Mayor
and City Council.
   (D)   He or she shall have the authority to delegate his or her authority to
such deputies, assistants, and other personnel as may be assigned to his or her
office by Mayor and City Council.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of all municipal officers and employees to
cooperate with the Building Inspector upon his or her request whenever, it may
be necessary, in order to faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
   (F)   (1)   In order to ensure compliance with the technical code, the
Building Inspector (Official) is authorized to enter, examine, and survey at
all reasonable times all dwellings, dwellings units, rooming units, and other
properties.
      (2)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, and rooming
units, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Building Inspector free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or other properties, and
its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection,
examination, or survey.
   (G)   (1)   Whenever the Building Official feels that an emergency exists
which requires immediate action so as to protect the health and welfare of the
community, he or she may, without notice, issue an order reciting the existence
of such emergency and requiring such action be taken as he or she deems
necessary to meet the emergency. Such an order is effective immediately.
      (2)   The subject of such an order, however, still retains the right to a
hearing subject to the provisions laid down in §
5-4.
   (H)   Whenever the Building Official determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of the
technical code, or whenever a petition filed by a least five residents to this
effect and a preliminary investigation by the Building Official discloses that
there is a basis for such charges, the Building Official shall give notice of
such alleged violation to all parties in interest. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant as the
case may require, and in accordance authorized by the laws of this state; and
      (5)   Advise the recipient that, upon his or her request, a hearing will
be held as described in §§
5-4 or
5-13. (Prior Code, § 5-5)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2025.
§ 5-6 DIRECTOR OF HEALTH.
   A Director of Health may be appointed as needed to serve on any board, and
shall be appointed by the Mayor with consent of the Council. (Prior Code, § 5-
6)
§ 5-7 REGULATIONS OF HEALTH.
   The authority and the procedure set forth in this article shall not be
construed as exclusive, but shall be in addition to other police powers
possessed by the city for dealing with conflagrations, health conditions, and
other problems affecting the safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 5-8 ALL COMMISSIONS TO REPORT TO MAYOR.
   All commissions, housing authorities, and inspectors shall file with the
Mayor an annual report of their activities for the preceding year, and shall
make recommendations with reference to such additional legislation or other
action as it deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8)
§ 5-9 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter, or the application thereof to any person
or circumstances, shall be held invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions, or application thereof,
of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions of this chapter are hereby
declared to be severable. (Prior Code, § 5-9)
§ 5-10 CONFLICTS.
   In the event that any portion of this chapter conflicts with the provisions
of any ordinance of this city, the provisions which establish the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail. (Prior Code, § 5-10)
§ 5-11 NO DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the city to enforce
the prohibitions in this chapter against all or any properties which may
violate the article. In the city’s prosecutorial discretion, and as the city’s
resources permit, this article may be enforced only as to a limited number of
problem properties per year. Nothing in this chapter, or the absence of any
similar provisions from any other city law shall be construed to impose a duty
upon the city to enforce such other provisions of law. (Prior Code, § 5-11)
§ 5-12 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   No owner of any building upon whom a notice has been served that violations
of this chapter exist in such a building or its premises shall sell, transfer,
grant, mortgage, ease, or otherwise dispose of said property until compliance
with such notice or order has been secured, or until the owner furnishes to the
purchaser, transferee, grantee, mortgagee, or lessee a true copy of the notice
or order, and at the same time shall have given adequate notification to the
Building Official of his or her intent to enter into such transaction. The
notification must include the name and address of the person or persons to whom
the sale, transfer, grant, mortgage, or lease is proposed. A purchaser who has
been informed of the existence of any notice or order is hereby bound by this
code. (Prior Code, § 5-12)
§ 5-13 HARDSHIPS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Where the literal application of the provisions of the technical code
would appear to cause undue hardship on an owner or tenant, or if it is claimed
that the provisions of the technical code have been misinterpreted, the owner
or tenant may appeal the decision of the Building Official to the Building
Commission. The Building Commission shall have jurisdiction to hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Building Official in the enforcement of the
technical code.
   (B)   The Building Commission shall have the power to affirm or reverse,
wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and such order shall be binding on the owners and
occupants of the structure or building affected.
   (C)   The proceedings of such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the Building Official, shall be summarized, reduced to writing, and entered
as a matter of public record. Such record shall also include a copy of every
notice or order issued. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Building
Commission may seek relief in Municipal Court and then in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Prior Code, § 5-13)
§ 5-14 CONDEMNATION.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit, pursuant to the standards
of this chapter, shall be vacated within 30 days after issuance of the order of
condemnation. (Prior Code, § 5-14)
§ 5-15 REOCCUPATION.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and evacuated as unfit
for human occupancy shall be reoccupied without written authorization by the
Building Official. Such authorization shall not be given until the defects have
been eliminated. (Prior Code, § 5-15)
§ 5-16 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter, or
fails to comply with any of its mandatory provisions, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for the violation
thereof, shall be fined not exceeding $1,000. Each day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-16)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 5-17 MUNICIPAL INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer of the municipality, or
his or her representative, shall have plenary power and authority to enter for
inspection of private premises to aid in the enforcement of any state law or
municipal ordinance; provided, that this section shall not be construed as
purporting to authorize an unreasonable search and seizure prohibited by
Section Six, Article Three of the Constitution of this state.(W. Va. Code § 8-
12-15) (Prior Code, § 5-17)
Editor’s note:
   This section was added by the city on November 16, 2015.
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING CODE AND PERMITS
Section
   
5-100   Adoption of Building Code
   
5-101   Permit required
   
5-102   Building permit fees
   
5-103   Contractors requirement
   
5-104   Penalties
§ 5-100 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   There is enacted and adopted by reference, as though they were copied
herein fully, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations, the State
Building Code, as promulgated by the State Fire Commission pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 15A-11-5, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
designated limits of the city. One copy of the code, certified by the City
Recorder, shall be available to the public for inspection and use during all
regular business hours.
   (B)   Any existing town ordinance that is more stringent or imposes a higher
standard than is required by the above referenced codes shall govern, provided
such ordinance is not inconsistent with the laws of the state and is not
contrary to recognized standards and good engineering practices.
   (C)   Any existing city ordinance that is less stringent or imposes a lower
standard than is required by the above referenced codes is hereby amended to
comply therewith. (Prior Code, § 5-100)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-13
§ 5-101 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert, or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by code, or cause any such work to be done,
to do so without first obtaining a building permit from the City Council.
   (B)   Each owner or agent shall not:
      (1)   Construct, alter, or add to any building or any appurtenant
structure or feature within the city;
      (2)   Destroy, raze, or demolish any edifice, structure, or building
within the city;
      (3)   Construct, install, repair, extend, alter, remove, or dismantle any
plumbing system or device, or any part thereof; and
      (4)   Construct, install, erect, repair, extend or alter, remove, or
dismantle any electrical wiring apparatus, fixture, or device, or any part
thereof. No person shall connect with a supply or current wires or wiring, or
equipment, within any building or other structure within the city, unless and
until such wiring or equipment to be so connected shall have been approved, in
writing, by an electrical inspector.
   (C)   Each person desiring to perform any work which requires a building or
demolition permit must submit an application to the City Recorder, accompanied
by the plans, specifications, cost, and location of the proposed work for
review by the city. Although the Recorder may, at the option of the Council, be
permitted to issue a provisional permit, such provisional permit does not
become effective until ratified by City Council at a regular or special meeting
called for such purpose. Any work performed under the provisional permit issued
by the Recorder prior to approval thereof by the City Council shall be at the
risk of the permit holder. City Council may condition its approval of any
building permit upon such reasonable terms and conditions as it deems
appropriate to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city.
   (D)   All permits issued hereunder shall expire six calendar months from the
date of approval thereof by the City Council, and will not be renewed without
express approval of City Council. Upon showing of diligent prosecution during
the initial six-month period of the work for which the permit was originally
issued, the City Council may, for an additional fee of $100, in its discretion,
renew the permit for an additional period of six months. Any permit issued
after a period of 18 months must reapply as if this was a first permit. (Prior
Code, § 5-101)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on May 2024.
§ 5-102 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fees charged for building permits shall be:
      (1)   A $20 application fee on all building permits;
      (2)   A base fee of $20 for improvements, remodeling, and repairs of a
value more than $500 and less than $1,000;
      (3)   A base fee of $35 shall be charged for construction over $1,000,
plus $2 for each $1,000, or any part thereof, with a maximum fee of $750;
      (4)   A base fee of $50 and $2.50 for each $1,000, or any part thereof,
for commercial and industry, with a maximum fee of $7,500;
      (5)   Mobile home and manufactured housing shall be $250;
      (6)   All demolition permits and building razing permits are $150;
      (7)   Grading only shall be $5 per $1,000; and
      (8)   Renewal fees shall be $100.
   (B)   If any fines and/or court costs are levied, this shall not excuse or
be taken in place of building permit fees. (Prior Code, § 5-102)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 5-103 CONTRACTORS REQUIREMENT.
   Contractors, or any person performing work on any property in the city,
shall view or obtain a building permit before any work is performed. Permits
shall be checked for date, location, type of work to be performed, and approval
by proper authority. Conditions of §§
5-100 and
5-101 shall apply. (Prior Code, § 5-103)
§ 5-104 PENALTIES.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article, or fails
to comply with any of its mandatory provisions, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, if no specific penalty is provided for, the violation thereof
shall be a fine not exceeding $1,000. For violations in excess of $250,000, the
violation thereof shall be a fine not exceeding $2,000. Each day any such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Prior Code, § 5-104)
Editor’s note:
   This section was added by the city on November 16, 2015.
ARTICLE 2: SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
5-200   Declaration of nuisance
   
5-201   Definitions
   
5-202   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
5-203   Abatement
   
5-204   Clandestine drug lab sites and chemical dumpsites
§ 5-200 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The City Council, recognizing that there are many existing buildings
which constitute a menace and a detriment to the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the people of this city, declares any dwelling or other
building unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the
hazard of fire, accidents, or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light, or
sanitary facilities, or other conditions, or any building or structure, whether
used for human habitation or not, which, because of conditions prevailing
therein, is unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public welfare
is declared to be a nuisance, and may be repaired, improved, vacated, closed,
or demolished, and such nuisance abated as provided.
   (B)   (1)   The Buildings Commission shall be the enforcement agency and,
upon information received from any person or as a result of its own
investigation, the Commission may report to the City Council and upon their
authority, shall issue a complaint in the Municipal Court against any building
and the owner thereof.
      (2)   Such complaint shall definitely locate the building, shall describe
the conditions complained of, and the court shall set a date and place for a
hearing on the question of whether the building is unfit for human habitation
or is unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public welfare.
   (C)   In order to perform its duties effectively and protect the public
interests, the Commission, or any member thereof, or any person delegated by
the Commission for this purpose, shall have authority to go upon and inspect
any building or any part thereof, provided, that such entrance and inspection
shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to
the persons in possession.
   (D)   As provided in §
5-3 of this chapter, the Commission has plenary power and authority to require
the owner to pay for the costs of repairing, altering, or improving, or of
vacating and closing, removing, or demolishing any dwelling or building. (Prior
Code, § 5-200)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-16
§ 5-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER or LANDOWNER. A person who individually or jointly with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to the property, with or without actual possession
of the property;
      (2)   Has charge, care, or control of the property as owner or agent of
the owner;
      (3)   Is an executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate
of the owner;
      (4)   Is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing, controlling,
or collecting rents; or
      (5)   Is entitled to control or direct the management or disposition of
the property.
   SUBSTANDARD. The following buildings or structures shall be deemed
SUBSTANDARD.
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside to the middle third of the base.
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more of
damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage
or deterioration of the non-supporting, enclosing, or outside walls or
covering.
      (3)   Those which have floors or roofs which are overloaded, have
improperly distributed loads, or have insufficient strength to be reasonably
safe for the purpose used.
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, flood, wind, hail,
vandalism, casualty, or other cases so as to have become dangerous to life,
health, safety, or welfare of the occupants or the public.
      (5)   Those which are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or
which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that
they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or
disease, so as to endanger the health, safety, or welfare of the occupants.
      (6)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the occupants.
      (7)   Those having inadequate stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or
other means of egress in case of emergency.
      (8)   Those having any piece, part, or attachment so insecurely fixed as
to be in danger of falling or being dislodged by the elements and injuring
persons or property.
      (9)   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
      (10)   Those existing in violation of any provision of the Building Code,
Fire Code, or other ordinances of this city.
      (11)   Any swimming pool, septic tank, or other in-ground structure which
endangers the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
      (12)   Those used in violation of the laws relating to controlled
dangerous substances. (Prior Code, § 5-201)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-16
§ 5-202 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following are the standards in ordering the abatement of a public
nuisance by repair, vacation, or demolition of substandard buildings or
structures.
   (A)   If the building or structure can reasonably be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this article, it shall be
ordered repaired. An order to repair may include a requirement to close and
secure any or all exterior openings.
   (B)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, safety, or welfare of its occupants, or if deemed
necessary for the abatement of the nuisance, it shall be ordered vacated.
   (C)   If the building or structure is damaged, decayed, or deteriorated to
such a degree that it is not feasible to repair such building or it is not
structurally safe, the building or structure, or any portion thereof, shall be
ordered demolished. (Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 5-203 ABATEMENT.
   If any owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises to whom a notice
of violation or order has been issued fails to comply with the terms of such
notice, or with the terms imposed by the Municipal Court, as the case may be,
the Building Code Official, upon consultation with the Mayor and City Council,
may have such violation and/or public nuisance abated or the provisions of such
order carried out, after reasonable notice to such owner, occupant, or person
in charge of the premises of his or her intention to do so, and collect all
abatement costs, with 1% per month interest added from the date of the notice,
from the owner, occupant, or person in charge, by distress or sale, in the same
manner in which taxes levied upon real estate for the benefit of the city are
authorized to be collected; and the abatement costs shall remain a lien upon
the premises, or part of the premises, the same as taxes levied upon real
estate, which lien may be enforced by any court having jurisdiction, as other
liens against real estate are enforced. In case of non-resident owners of real
estate, such notice may be served upon any tenant, occupant, assignee, or
rental agent, or by publication once a week for not less than two consecutive
weeks in a newspaper circulated in the city. (Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 5-204 CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMPSITES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this article is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or associated
dumpsite may exist. The City Council finds that such sites may contain
suspected chemicals and residues that place people, particularly children or
adults of child bearing age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or
visiting the site, now and in the future.
      (2)   Interpretation and application. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this article shall be construed to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this article are either more or less restrictive than comparable
provisions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose height
standards or requirements shall prevail. Should any court of competent
jurisdiction declare any section or subpart of this article to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the article as a whole or any part
thereof, other than the provision declared invalid.
      (3)   Fees. Fees for the administration of this article may be
established and amended periodically by resolution of the City Council.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab have been located.
         CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
         CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture controlled substances.
         CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with the operation of an unlawful
clandestine drug lab exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings,
accessory structures, a chemical dump site or any land.
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance, or immediate precursor as may
be defined in W. Va. Code Ch. 60A. The term shall not include distilled
spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors, or tobacco.
         HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste generated from a clandestine drug
lab. Such wastes shall be treated, stored, transported, or disposed of in a
manner consistent with the State Department of Health, the State Department of
Environmental Protection, and the County Health Department rules and
regulations.
         MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include
the production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization by
mechanical, physical, chemical, or pharmaceutical means, packing, repacking,
tableting, encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, filing, or by other process of
drugs.
         OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation who owns, in whole or in part,
the land, buildings, or structures associated with a clandestine drug lab site
or chemical dump site.
         PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. All dwellings, accessory structures, and
buildings or adjacent property associated with a clandestine drug lab site are
potentially unsafe due to health hazards and are considered a PUBLIC HEALTH
NUISANCE.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   Law enforcement notice to other authorities. Law enforcement
authorities that identify conditions associated with a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dump site that places neighbors, visiting public or present
and future occupants of the dwelling at risk for exposure to harmful
contaminants and other associated conditions must promptly notify the
appropriate municipal, child protection, and public health authorities of the
property location, property owner, if known, and conditions found.
      (2)   Declaration of property as a public health nuisance. If law
enforcement determines the existence of a clandestine drug lab site or chemical
dump site, the property shall be declared a public health nuisance.
      (3)   Notice of public health nuisance to concerned parties. Upon
notification by law enforcement authorities, the City Building Official shall
promptly issue a declaration of public health notice for the affected property
and post a copy of the declaration at the probable entrance to the dwelling or
property. The Building Official shall also notify the owner of the property by
mail and notify the following parties:
         (a)   Occupants of the property;
         (b)   Neighbors at probable risk;
         (c)    The City Police Department; and
         (d)   Other state and local authorities, such as the State DEP and the
County Health Department which are known to have public and environmental
protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
      (4)    Property owner’s responsibility to act. The Building Official
shall also issue an order to abate the public health nuisance, including the
following.
         (a)   Immediately vacate those portions of the property, including
building or structure interiors, which may place the occupants or visitors at
risk.
         (b)   1.   Within ten calendar days, contract with appropriate
environmental testing and cleaning firms to conduct an on-site assessment,
complete clean up, and remediation testing and follow-up testing, and determine
that the property risks are sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy
of the dwelling.
            2.   The property owner shall immediately notify the city of
actions taken and reach an agreement with the city on the clean up schedule.
The city shall consider practical limitations and the availability of
contractors in approving the schedule for clean-up.
         (c)   Provide written documentation of the clean up process, including
a signed, written statement that the property is safe for human occupancy and
that the clean up was conducted in accordance with applicable state law and/or
guidelines.
      (5)   Property owner’s responsibility for costs. The property owner shall
be responsible for all costs of vacation or clean up of the site, including
contractor’s fees and public costs for services that were performed in
association with a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site clean up.
Public costs may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Posting of the site;
         (b)   Notification of affected parties;
         (c)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the
assessment process;
         (d)   Laboratory fees;
         (e)   Clean-up services;
         (f)   Administrative fees to be billed at a current per hour rate for
the services rendered; and/or
         (g)   All other associated costs, including court costs and attorney
fees, that may be incurred relative to the costs of vacation or clean-up of the
site and enforcement of the terms of this section.
      (6)   Recovery of public costs.
         (a)   If, after service of notice of the declaration of public health
nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and clean
up, the City Building Official is authorized to proceed in a prompt manner to
initiate the on-site assessment and clean up.
         (b)   If the city is unable to locate the property owner within seven
days of the declaration of public health nuisance, the city is authorized to
proceed in a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean up.
         (c)   The city may abate the nuisance by removing the hazardous
structure or building, or otherwise, according to the State Code.
         (d)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all costs, plus an
additional 25% of the costs for administration. The city may recover costs by
civil action against the person or persons who own the property.
      (7)   Authority to modify or remove declaration of public health
nuisance.
         (a)   The Building Official is authorized to modify the declaration
conditions or remove the declaration of public health nuisance.
         (b)   Such modifications or removal of the declaration shall only
occur after documentation from a qualified environmental or cleaning firm
stating that the health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and
potential dwelling occupants, are sufficiently abated or corrected to allow
safe occupancy of the dwelling.
   (C)   Violations and penalties. Upon a finding that a person is responsible
for a civil violation of this chapter, the Municipal Judge shall impose a civil
sanction of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, for each violation. Each
day in which a violation of this chapter continues or the failure to perform
any act or duty required by this chapter or by the Municipal Judge continues
shall constitute a separate civil offense. (Prior Code, § 5-204)
Statutory reference:
   Clandestine drug laboratories, see W. Va. Code § 60A-4-411
ARTICLE 3: REGISTRATION OF PROPERTY
Section
   
5-300   Registration of vacant buildings; registration fees; procedures for
administration and enforcement
   
5-301   Registration of uninhabitable property
§ 5-300 REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS; REGISTRATION FEES; PROCEDURES FOR
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OWNER. A person who, individually or jointly with others, has legal title
to the property, with or without actual possession of the property, or has
charge, care, or control of the property as owner or agent of the owner, or is
an executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner, or
is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing, controlling, or
collecting rents, or is entitled to control or direct the management or
disposition of the property.
      VACANT BUILDING. A building or other structure, residential or
commercial, that is unoccupied or unsecured, or occupied by one or more
unauthorized persons for more than 30 days continuous.
         (a)   Provided, that a new building under construction or a building
that, by definition, is exempted by ordinance of the municipality, is not
deemed a vacant building.
         (b)   Provided, however, that the governing body of a municipality
shall, on a case-by-case basis, upon request by the property owner, exempt a
vacant building from registration upon a finding for good cause shown that the
person will be unable to occupy the building for a determinant period of time.
         (c)   Provided, a building or other structure, residential or
commercial, actively listed and advertised for sale shall be exempt from
registration for a period of one year.
      VACANT PROPERTY. A property on which no building is erected and no
routine activity occurs.
   (B)   Registration.
      (1)   Ninety days after a building, residential or commercial, becomes
vacant, it shall be subject to registration. An owner shall provide, on a form
provided by the city, in writing the name, address, and location of the
property, and address and telephone numbers of all owners, and where a person
responsible for care and emergencies can be contacted.
      (2)   Vacant buildings shall be subject to an initial $30 administrative
fee plus a $25 residential registration fee or a $100 commercial registration
fee shall be charged for the first year. The second year, a $150 residential or
a $300 commercial renewal fee will apply. The third year, a registration fee of
$350 residential or $700 shall apply. The fourth year, and each year
thereafter, a registration fee of $500 residential or a $1,000 commercial shall
apply.
      (3)   Vacant property shall be subject to an initial $30 administrative
fee plus a $25 registration fee for the first year. The second year, and every
year thereafter, a $75 fee shall apply.
      (4)   Failure to comply within 15 days of notification of registration
required, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Fines and/or court costs
will not excuse or replace payment of fees required.
   (C)   Owner, resident. Any owner of a vacant building residing outside of
the state shall provide the name and address of a person who resides within the
state who is authorized to accept service of process and notices of fees due
under this section on behalf of the owner, and who is designated as a
responsible, local party or agent for the purposes of notification in the event
of an emergency affecting the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (D)   Challenging a determination. A property owner may challenge any
determination made pursuant to this section in the City Municipal Court, and
that determination may be appealed to the Circuit Court of the county.
   (E)   Civil action. The municipality shall have the authority to institute a
civil action against the property owner and/or file a lien on real property for
unpaid and delinquent vacant building registration fees as provided for in W.
Va. Code § 8-12-16c.
   (F)   Maintenance. Owners shall maintain the vacant building or property to
a standard deemed reasonable by the governing body. The city may, following
notice to the owner, act in Municipal Court to bring the vacant building or
property into compliance with the standards, or otherwise eliminate the public
nuisance caused by any non-compliant conditions; provided, that nothing in this
section is to be interpreted to impose a duty, obligation, or requirement that
a municipality must undertake such repairs, demolition, or maintenance measures
which remain as obligations and responsibilities of the owner. Cost of the
repairs, demolition, and maintenance and related legal and administrative costs
incurred by the municipality are to be paid by the owner. Collection of these
costs may be enforced in civil proceedings against the owner.
   (G)   Collection of fees. The City Recorder shall deposit the fees collected
equally into the Community Improvement Fund, police account, and fire fee
account:
      (1)   For the purpose to improve public safety efforts, especially for
police and fire personnel, who most often contend with the dangerous situations
manifested in vacant properties;
      (2)   To monitor and administer this section; and
      (3)   Repair, close, or demolish a vacant structure.(W. Va. Code § 8-12-
16c) (Prior Code, § 5-300)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 5-301 REGISTRATION OF UNINHABITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)    The Mayor of the city, with approval of the Council, may appoint a
Code Enforcement Officer to investigate and determine whether real property
violates provisions of the applicable building code of the municipality.
   (B)   (1)   An owner of real property improved by a structure that is
uninhabitable and violates the applicable building code adopted by the
municipality is subject to a registration fee, and shall be assessed a fee of
$500 and additional fee of $1,000 each year thereafter such violation
continues.
      (2)   OWNER or PROPERTY OWNER means a person who individually or jointly
with others:
         (a)   Has legal title to the property, with or without actual
possession of the property;
         (b)   Has charge, care, or control of the property as owner or agent
of the owner;
         (c)   Is an executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the
estate of the owner;
         (d)   Is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing,
controlling, or collecting rents; or
         (e)   Is entitled to control or direct the management or disposition
of the property.
   (C)   After inspecting the property, if the officer determines the property
is uninhabitable and violates the applicable Building Code, then:
      (1)   The officer shall post a written notice on the property, which
shall include:
         (a)   An explanation of the violation(s);
         (b)   A description of the registration;
         (c)    The date the fee will be assessed;
         (d)   An explanation of how to be removed from the registration;
         (e)   An explanation of the appeals process; and
         (f)   A statement that if the fee is not paid, then the property is
subject to forfeiture.
      (2)   Within five business days of the inspection and the posting of the
property, the officer shall, by certified mail, send a copy of the notice that
was posted to the owner(s) of the property at the last known address according
to the county property tax records.
   (D)   Within 45 days of receipt of the notification by the owner(s), the
property owner may:
      (1)   Make and complete any repairs to the property that violate the
applicable Building Code; or
      (2)   Provide written information to the officer showing that repairs are
forthcoming in a reasonable period of time.
   (E)   After the repairs are made, the owner may request a re-inspection of
the property to ensure compliance with the applicable Building Code. If the
officer finds the violations are fixed, the owner is not subject to the
registration and no fee will be incurred.
   (F)   The officer may re-inspect the property at any time to determine where
in the process the repairs fall.
   (G)   Within 90 days of receipt of the notification by the owner(s), the
property owner has the right to appeal the decision of the officer to the
Municipal Court.
   (H)   If an appeal is not filed within 90 days, the property is registered
and the fee is assessed to the owner(s) on the date specified in the notice.
The notice of the fee shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the
County Commission of the county where the property is located and if different,
in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission of the county where the
property is assessed for real property taxes.
   (I)   If the enforcement agency affirms the registration and assessment of
the registration fee, the property owner has the right to appeal the decision
of the enforcement agency to the Circuit Court within 30 days of the decision.
If the decision is not appealed in a timely manner to the Circuit Court, then
the property is registered and the fee is assessed on the date specified in the
notice. The notice of the fee shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of
the County Commission of the county where the property is located and if
different, in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission of the county
where the property is assessed for real property taxes.
   (J)   A fee assessed under this section shall be recorded in the same manner
as a lien is recorded in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission.
   (K)   If the fee is paid, then the municipality shall record a release of
the fee in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission of the county where
the property is located and if different, in the office of the Clerk of the
County Commission of the county where the property is assessed for real
property taxes.
   (L)   If an owner fails to pay the fee, then the officer shall annually post
the written notice on the property and send the written notice to the owner(s)
by certified mail.
   (M)   If a registration fee remains delinquent for two years from the date
it was placed on record in the Clerk of the County Commission in which the
property is located and assessed, the municipality may take action to receive
the subject property by means of forfeiture. Should the municipality take the
steps necessary to receive the subject property, the municipality then becomes
the owner of record and takes the property, subject to all liens and real and
personal property taxes.
   (N)   The City Recorder shall deposit the fees collected equally into the
Community Improvement Fund, police account, and fire fee account.(W. Va. Code §
8-12-16a) (Prior Code, § 5-301)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
ARTICLE 4: DWELLINGS, MODULAR HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOMES, AND THE LIKE
Section
   
5-400   Definitions
   
5-401   Location generally
   
5-402   Requirements
   
5-403   Storage of camping trailers
   
5-404   Park permits; authorized, expiration, renewal
   
5-405   Same; application
   
5-406   Permits
   
5-407   Permit revocation
   
5-408   Permit inspection before renewal
   
5-409   Compliance with sanitation, and the like, laws
   
5-410   Penalty
   
5-411   Permits
   
5-412   House number display required
§ 5-400 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTO TRAILERS PARKS. Temporary or long-term housing, designed to accommodate
self-propelled vehicles used as dwellings, such as motor homes, as well as
trailers. These PARKS provide individual sites with hookups for utilities like
water, electricity, and sewer, along with common areas.
   CAMPGROUNDS. A tract of land established, maintained, and offered to the
public either free of charge or for payment for the location or placement of
two or more camping units, auto trailers, recreational vehicles, or trailers.
   CITY PERMIT. A written document issued after final approval by the City
Council giving a person permission to operate a specific facility governed by
municipal ordinance.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT. A written document issued by the Health
Officer, giving a person permission to operate a specific facility governed by
Title 64, State Legislative Rules, 64 C.S.R. § 18-2.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOMES. Homes built entirely in the factory under a federal
building code administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD). MANUFACTURED HOMES are usually installed on a chassis and
transported by truck to a site where they are placed permanently or semi-
permanently to a foundation.
   MOBILE HOME PARK and AUTO TRAILER PARK. Unless provided for separately,
shall be used synonymously, and shall apply to all land which shall be within
the territorial confines of the city, as the same may be extended from time to
time, and upon all lands owned or leased by the city or operated by the
instrumentalities thereof, such as lands operated by the Park Commission of the
city and the City Industrial Commission, and used or intended to be used for
the accommodation of mobile homes or auto trailers. It shall not include
automobile or mobile home or auto trailer sales lots on which unoccupied mobile
homes or auto trailers are parked for the purpose of inspection and sale.
   MOBILE HOME PARKS. Any site, area, tract, or parcel of land, upon which two
or more mobile homes are used or occupied for dwelling purposes, are parked
either free of charge or for monetary consideration and shall include any
roadway, building, structure, installation, enclosure, or vehicle used or
intended for use as a part of the facilities of said MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOMES; AUTO TRAILERS; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; BOAT TRAILERS; ATV
TRAILERS. These types of vehicles, either self-propelled or designed to be
towed behind another powered vehicle, are defined as any vehicle designed or
constructed in such manner to permit occupancy for living or sleeping purposes,
the conduct of any business, profession, or trade, or to contain, store, or
move boats, campers, all-terrain vehicles, and the like. All these, as well as
similar trailers, vehicles or conveyances, shall be contained within the
definition of MOBILE HOMES and AUTO TRAILERS for the purposes of this chapter.
   MODULAR DWELLING. Built in whole or in part at a factory, and then taken to
a site for instillation. MODULAR DWELLINGS are not built or labeled to the HUD
standards for manufactured homes and are regulated by building codes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
      (1)   Any vehicle designed for recreational use. A portable dwelling
(such as a specially equipped trailer or automotive vehicle) for use during
casual travel and camping. Any tiny home set on a permanent trailer chassis
with wheels shall be referred to as a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, when used as living and sleeping quarters
for more than 15 days, shall constitute a mobile home.
   SHIPPING CONTAINER.
      (1)   A unit originally used for the transport, shipping, or hauling of
materials or goods by land, sea, or air; capable of being moved or mounted by
rail, truck, or boat.
      (2)   This definition includes cargo containers, trailers, truck
compartments, and similar portable storage containers, or steel sea or
oceangoing containers marked with the American Bureau of Shipping’s emblem or
meeting the International Standard Organization’s standards which can be
detached from a trailer, chassis, or frame, and which were formerly used for
transporting sea or oceangoing cargo.
      (3)   This definition includes the terms PORTABLE MOVING STORAGE UNIT,
CONTAINER, and POD, and CARGO, OCEANGOING, and TRANSPORT CONTAINER. In
addition, this definition applies to any structure designed to imitate the look
of a SHIPPING CONTAINER.
   SITE-BUILT DWELLING. Structures built primarily for human habitation, at the
location where it will be inhabited. It is used or intended for supporting or
sheltering use or occupancy. Typically, a SITE BUILT HOME will be a minimum of
800 square feet or greater.
   TINY HOMES.
      (1)   A TINY HOUSE provides permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation and is a dwelling unit with approximately 37
square meters (400 square feet) of floor area, excluding lofts. Typically sized
under 600 square feet, TINY HOMES are intended to be permanent homes.
      (2)   TINY HOMES that can be set on a trailer chassis with wheels are
referred to as TINY HOMES ON WHEELS (THOW) and fall under the Standards on
Recreational Vehicles. THOWs and RVs are intended and required to be only
temporary housing. (Prior Code, § 5-400)
§ 5-401 LOCATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to place, keep,
maintain, or store a mobile home (manufactured housing) or auto trailer on any
land within the territorial confines of the city, as the same may be extended
from time to time. Nor on any lands owned or leased by the city or operated by
the instrumentalities thereof, such as lands operated by the Park Commission of
the city and the City Industrial Commission, or to permit, allow, or suffer any
mobile home or auto trailer to be placed, kept, or maintained on any land owned
or controlled by him or her within the city, except in a mobile home park, an
auto trailer park, or for which prior approval and a permit has been approved
and issued by the City Council.
   (B)   If approved by the City Council:
      (1)   All mobile homes (manufactured housing) shall comply with all State
and County Department of Health regulations;
      (2)   All mobile homes (manufactured housing) shall comply with permit
conditions issued by the City Council;
      (3)   All mobile homes (manufactured housing) shall be underpinned
(skirted) within 90 days; and
      (4)   Mobile homes (manufactured housing) shall not:
         (a)   Be placed within ten feet of any property boundary;
         (b)   Be placed within ten feet of any city sidewalk; and/or
         (c)   Be placed within 15 feet of any city street. (Prior Code, § 5-
401)
§ 5-402 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with regulations. All site-built dwelling, modular
dwelling, manufactured homes, recreational vehicles, dwellings, tiny homes,
mobile homes, trailers, mobile home parks; auto trailer parks, mobile home
parks, auto trailer parks, and campgrounds shall comply with all State and
County Department of Health regulations.
   (B)   Allotted sites. If not regulated by State and County Department of
Health regulations, each mobile home and auto trailer shall be allotted a site
in said mobile home park and auto trailer park of not less than 4,000 square
feet. No mobile home or auto trailer shall be parked closer than ten feet to
the side lot line of a mobile home park or auto trailer park if the abutting
property is improved property, or closer than ten feet to the public street or
alley. Each individual mobile home or auto trailer site shall abut or face on a
driveway or clear unoccupied property of not less than 20 feet in width, which
space shall have unobstructed access to a public highway, street, or alley.
There shall be an open space of at least 20 feet between the sites of every
mobile home or auto trailer and at least 20 feet between the ends of every such
mobile home or auto trailer.
   (C)   Tiny homes. A TINY HOME is a single-family dwelling on a very small
scale and shall be used as a non-transient occupancy for the purpose of living.
      (1)   A tiny home shall be no less than 350 square feet and have a
covered main entrance (porch).
      (2)   Lots for tiny homes must provide a minimum of ten feet on each side
and at least ten feet to the public street or alley. There shall be an open
space of at least 20 feet between residencies.
      (3)   All tiny homes must be placed on a firm foundation, and foundations
shall be slab, pier, crawlspace, or basement type. Homes must have anchors and
tie downs keeping it stable and secure.
      (4)   Skirting shall be installed. A weather-resistant material shall be
used to enclose the space from the bottom of the home to grade, and must be
installed within 90 days after the home is occupied.
      (5)   The home shall have a primary and secondary means of escape. The
primary means of escape is required to be at least 32 inches wide. Sleeping
rooms and living areas shall have primary and secondary means of escape for the
dwellings. An emergency escape and rescue opening in sleeping rooms and lofts
that leads directly to the outside are required. Escapes shall be of suitable
size or door to be used as an emergency fire exit.
      (6)   Habitable rooms shall be a minimum of 70 square feet. HABITABLE
ROOMS are space for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet
rooms, closets, halls, storage, or utility spaces and similar areas are not
considered habitable spaces (2015 International Residential Code). Habitable
space and hallways shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet.
Bathrooms, toilet rooms, and laundry rooms shall have a ceiling height of not
less than six feet, eight inches. Lofts are excluded from height requirements.
      (7)   Lofts must have a fixed means of egress.
      (8)   Tiny homes are dwelling units and require permanent provisions for
sanitation. Sanitation and water connection for all dwelling is required. The
use of the sewer and water system of the city is determined and declared to be
essential for the protection and preservation of the public health. Dwelling
units require bathroom facilities. Every dwelling unit must have a toilet,
lavatory, and a tub or shower. Codes generally require a clearance of 15 inches
from the center of a toilet to any obstruction. They also require 24 inches in
front of a toilet, and shower basins are required to be a minimum of 30 inches
by 30 inches.
      (9)   Electrical systems must comply with the State Building Codes, and
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code.
      (10)    Smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed and
maintained.
      (11)   Homes shall provide for adequate lighting and ventilation.
      (12)   All tiny homes must be sided with an approved siding material or
painted.
      (13)   As with any home, tiny homes must be kept clean and maintained.
   (D)   Shipping containers.
      (1)   No person shall place or cause to be placed, or use or permit the
use of, any shipping containers as an accessory building, storage building, or
living unit on residentially zoned land and/or land used for residential
purposes. It is prohibited for people to convert shipping containers into
residential structures within the city. Shipping containers are prohibited in
residential areas.
      (2)   Shipping containers, as defined in §
5-400, shall be permitted within the light and heavy industrial areas and
commercial businesses pursuant to the regulations set forth below.
         (a)   A container shall be delivered and maintained in good condition,
free from rodents, insects, rust, graffiti, and obscene words or pictures. It
shall be the responsibility of the property owner or occupant and the supplying
company to maintain each container in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
         (b)   All containers shall be placed on concrete, asphalt, or a level,
compacted, hard surface at all times.
         (c)   All containers shall be painted so as to blend in with the
buildings to which they are associated, and the container cannot display
graffiti.
         (d)   All containers shall not be stacked.
         (e)   A building permit is required prior to placement of a cargo
container, ensuring effective anchoring/foundation according to the then most
current edition of the International Building Code. The application shall show
the proposed cargo container is accessory to the permitted use of the property,
and meets the placement criteria and be placed only after a permit has first
been issued by the city.
      (3)   Exceptions for temporary placement of shipping containers shall be
as follows.
         (a)   Moving. A temporary permit for the placement of one shipping
container per residential lot may be issued once in a calendar year,
temporarily, for a maximum of 90 consecutive days within single-family dwelling
for the purposes of temporarily storing or shipping personal property in
association with moving or property improvement.
         (b)   Construction. A temporary permit for the placement of a shipping
container may be issued in conjunction with an active building permit for a
construction site. The permit will be valid for a period of one calendar year
from the date of issuance, or until the building permit expires, but may be
extended. Containers must be removed before the expiration of the permit.
            1.   Temporary shipping containers may not be placed within the
public right-of-way, and may not be placed in such a manner as to obstruct or
impair the free and full use of the sidewalk or street by the public, or
obstruct the view of pedestrians or users of vehicles thereon, or interfere
with the wires, poles, or fixtures lawfully maintained thereon.
            2.   All temporary shipping containers must be placed on the
construction site associated with the active building permit.
            3.   All temporary shipping containers must be placed a minimum of
five feet away from all adjacent property lines and public rights-of-way.
            4.   Temporary shipping containers may not be stacked.
            5.   Temporary shipping containers must be secured at nighttime and
maintained in good condition.
         (c)   Emergency; placement of shipping containers citywide. In the
event of a natural hazard, accident, or other emergency or disaster within city
limits, a temporary permit for the placement of shipping container(s) may be
issued by the city subject to the Mayor’s declaration of emergency. The
temporary permit will be valid for a period of one calendar year from the date
of issuance, but may be extended for an additional 180 days.
      (4)   All owners of property within the city shall have 150 days from the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this article to bring the
properties, which currently contain accessory storage buildings that are in
violation of the terms of this article, into full compliance with the
provisions of this article.
   (E)   Violation; penalty. Any person who violates any provisions of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction is punishable for each
violation and for each day, or part of a day, during which the violation is
committed, continued, or licensed. Each violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor fined
more than $2,000. (Prior Code, § 5-402)
§ 5-403 STORAGE OF CAMPING TRAILERS.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prohibit the storage of any
camping trailer or trailer on the home premises of its owner for any length of
time when not used for living or sleeping purposes.
   (B)   Being stored, if possible, it shall be placed on the most rear portion
of the premises. (Prior Code, § 5-403)
§ 5-404 PARK PERMITS; AUTHORIZED, EXPIRATION, RENEWAL.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this article, mobile home parks, auto
trailer parks, and campgrounds may be established and maintained in the city
only after first obtaining a mobile home, auto trailer, or campground park
permit.
   (B)   Permits issued for mobile home parks and auto trailer parks by the
City Council shall expire one year from the date of issuance unless renewed as
provided. If such parks are to be maintained for a period longer than one year,
a renewal of the permit therefor shall be obtained from the City Recorder. Such
renewal shall be for a period not exceeding one year and shall be applied for
not less than 30 days prior to the date of expiration of the permit.
   (C)   Costs for permits shall be $15 per lot available in the park for each
year. Permit fees may be waived:
      (1)   On any lands owned or leased by the city or operated by the
instrumentalities thereof when used for social or recreational purposes; and
      (2)   For non-profit and charitable organizations when used for social or
recreational purposes, and upon approval of the City Council. (Prior Code, § 5-
404)
§ 5-405 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit for a mobile home or auto trailer park
shall first file an application therefor with the City Council. The application
shall give the location by street number and legal description of the property
on which the park is to be established and maintained. It shall give the
dimensions of the property, the number of units in the park and dimensions of
each lot within the park, and such other information as the City Council may
reasonably require. A plot plan in duplicate of the property shall be filed by
the applicant with his or her application, showing the location and dimensions
of all units, roads, buildings, sewer connections, water connections,
electrical outlets, and other essential requirements of this article.
   (B)   (1)   A Department of Health permit shall be presented to the City
Recorder prior to final approval of the city permit.
      (2)   No city permit shall be issued prior to obtaining any required
State Department of Health Permit. (Prior Code, § 5-405)
§ 5-406 PERMITS.
   (A)   Where no work is done under a permit within 90 days of its issuance,
it shall become null and void.
   (B)   Permits issued under the terms of this article convey no right to do
any plumbing work or to do any electrical work.
   (C)   Regular building, plumbing, electrical, or other permits as required
by this code shall be secured for all work. (Prior Code, § 5-406)
§ 5-407 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits required in this article may be revoked by the City Council
for violation of any provision of this article, violations of other municipal
ordinances, for violation of a state law, or if the park is maintained in an
unsafe or unsanitary manner or in any manner to create a nuisance as determined
by City Council.
   (B)   (1)   No permit shall be revoked until a hearing upon a notice by the
City Council is first had.
      (2)   Such notice shall state the reasons for revocation of the permit
and the time when and place where the hearing is to be held. (Prior Code, § 5-
407)
§ 5-408 PERMIT INSPECTION BEFORE RENEWAL.
   Before issuing a renewal of any permit required in this article, the City
Recorder shall cause a re-inspection of the buildings, structures, electrical
equipment, plumbing, and sanitation connections and lines of any mobile home
park, and no renewal shall be issued unless and until any defect or violation
of the law found therein has been corrected. (Prior Code, § 5-408)
§ 5-409 COMPLIANCE WITH SANITATION, AND THE LIKE, LAWS.
   (A)   All site-built dwelling, modular dwelling, manufactured homes,
recreational vehicles, dwelling, tiny homes, mobile homes, trailers, mobile
home parks, auto trailer parks, campgrounds placed on any property within the
city shall comply with all building, plumbing, electrical, and sanitation
codes, and ordinances and statutes of the city and the state.
   (B)   All of the laws of the Code of West Virginia, as amended, including,
but not limited to, W.Va. Code Chapter 17, Chapter 17A, Chapter 17B, Chapter
17C, Chapter 17D, and Chapter 17E, and all rules, regulations, and orders made
by the Public Service Commission, the State Road Commissioner, the Department
of Motor Vehicles, the Department of Public Safety, and the Superintendent of
Public Safety of the state, or any one or more of them, insofar as such rules,
regulations, and orders may relate or apply to traffic upon the public streets
and highways of incorporated villages, towns, and cities, and as they may be
amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated into this code, as if fully
written herein, and made a part of the city code, so that any offense which
would constitute an offense against the laws of the state shall, if committed
within the territory of the city, likewise be an offense against the city code.
The provision of this division (B) shall apply to all land which shall be
within the territorial confines of the city, as the same may be extended from
time to time, and upon all lands owned or leased by the city or operated by the
instrumentalities thereof, such as lands operated by the Park Commission of the
city and the City Industrial Commission.
   (C)   Sanitation and water connection for all dwellings is required. The use
of the sewer and water system of the city is determined and declared to be
essential for the protection and preservation of the public health, comfort,
safety, economy, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, and of the
area served by the systems. (Prior Code, § 5-409)
§ 5-410 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each separate
violation, and each day a violation continues may constitute a separate
offense. (Prior Code, § 5-410)
§ 5-411 PERMITS.
   All dwellings shall be required to obtain a city building permit. Nothing in
this article shall relieve any person from adhering to the State Building
Codes, State Department of Motor Vehicles Regulations, or Standards of
Recreational Vehicles. (Prior Code, § 5-411)
§ 5-412 HOUSE NUMBER DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (A)   All premises shall bear the distinctive street number assigned to that
premises.
   (B)   All houses and buildings shall clearly display the distinctive street
number assigned to that house or dwelling.
   (C)   The number shall be placed in such a position as to be plainly visible
to all road traffic coming to the premises from both directions.
   (D)   All numbers shall be no less than three inches in height.
   (E)   The numbers shall be not obscured by any trees shrubs, or other
objects. (Prior Code, § 5-412)
ARTICLE 5: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
Section
   
5-500   Wastewater discharge prohibitions
§ 5-500 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall introduce discharge, cause or allow to be introduced
or discharged, either directly or indirectly into the Wastewater Treatment
System of the city (the “PWTS”), any pollutant or wastewater which will
interfere with the operation or performance of the PWTS, will pass through the
PWTS untreated, or will otherwise cause the PWTS and the city to violate the
requirements of its NPDES permit.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all users of the PWTS, whether
or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
requirements.
      (3)   No user shall discharge or cause or allow to be discharged, any
unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary sewer of the PWTS.
      (4)   Where, in the opinion of the City Council, a user discharges a
pollutant or pollutants having the potential to cause interference,
passthrough, or permit violation, as stated in division (A)(1) above, the City
Council may require pretreatment or the implementation of best management
practices, subject to review and approval of City Council, to control the
discharge of such pollutant or pollutants.
   (B)   Specific discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   Unless noted otherwise herein, the substances, materials, waters,
or wastes described in division (B)(3) below are prohibited from discharge to
the PWTS.
      (2)   Where the discharge of a noted substance, material, water, or waste
is permitted, it shall be limited in the characteristics of its discharge to
the sewer system to concentrations, quantities, or characteristics which will
not harm either the sanitary sewers, the wastewater facilities, or PWTS
personnel, will not have adverse effect upon any receiving system, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute or create a
public nuisance.
      (3)   Furthermore, no individual, person, or user may discharge any of
the following to the PWTS outside of the limitations or restrictions on
materials set forth herein without approval of the City Council:
         (a)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which, by reason of their nature
or quantity, are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction or in
combination with other substances present, cause a fire or an explosion, or be
otherwise injurious to the PWTS, to the operation of the PWTS, or to the
personnel of the PWTS. At no time shall a discharge of pollutants present or
create a fire or explosion hazard in the PWTS, including, but not limited to,
waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 1,400°F or 600°C using
the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. Pollutants subject to this
section include, but are not limited to, gasoline, fuel oil, motor oil,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, chromates, carbides, hydrides,
and sulfides;
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances, which may cause obstructions to the
sewer or other interference with the operation of the treatment facilities such
as, but not limited to: grease, garbage containing particles greater than one-
half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair,
hides, or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone, or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel, or
lubrication oil, mud, or glass grinding or polished wastes;
         (c)   Wastewater discharged to the PWTS shall not contain more than 25
mg/l (milligrams per liter) of petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils,
or products of mineral oil origin, nor shall it contain floatable oils, fat, or
grease in excess of 500 mg/l;
         (d)   Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers only from
homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in on-site kitchens for the
purpose of consumption on the premises;
         (e)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 S.U. (standard units),
or greater than 10.0 S.U., or wastewater having any other corrosive property
capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and/or personnel
of the PWTS;
         (f)   Any wastewater containing toxic or hazardous pollutants, either
solid, liquid, or gaseous, in sufficient quantity either singularly or by
interaction with other pollutants to injure PWTS personnel or the general
public, cause harm or interfere with any PWTS process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the
PWTS.
            1.   A toxic pollutant shall include, but no limited to, any
pollutant identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(a).
            2.   The discharge of any toxic waste or hazardous pollutant(s)
shall not exceed the limitation(s) set forth in a categorical pretreatment
standard (40 C.F.R. parts 405 through 471) or any other pretreatment standard.
         (g)   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases which,
either singularly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create
a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry to the
sewers for their maintenance and repair;
         (h)   Any substances which may cause the PWTS’s effluent or any other
product of the PWTS such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for a
reclamation process where the PWTS is pursuing a rescue and reclamation
program;
         (i)   In no case shall a substance discharged to the PWTS cause the
PWTS to be in non-compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines,
or regulations developed under § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1345, any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
subject to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Toxic
Substance Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.) or other applicable federal
regulation, or state criteria, guidelines, or regulations applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
         (j)   Any substance which will cause the PWTS to violate water quality
standards or designated uses of the receiving water as adopted by the state;
         (k)   Any wastewater which objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
         (l)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit
biological activity in the PWTS treatment plant resulting in interference, but
in no case wastewater with a temperature which, at the introduction into the
PWTS, exceeds 400°C (1,040°F);
         (m)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and
the like), released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the PWTS;
         (n)    In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or contain
concentration(s) or quantities of pollutants that exceed, for any time period
longer that 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24 hour concentration,
quantities or flow which occurs during normal operation;
         (o)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the City
Council in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (p)   Any water or waste with a BOD in excess of 300 mg/l (milligrams
per liter), and/or any water or waste containing suspended solids in excess of
300 mg/l, on average daily flow composite basis, unless the City Council
determines the volume of such wastewater discharge to be sufficiently small as
to result is mass loading within the treatment capacity of the PWTS. On a case-
by-case basis, the City Council may determine that limitations less than 300mg/
l BOD and suspended solids, or appropriate limits for other pollutants, may be
required to prevent excessive loading to the PWTS; and/or
         (q)   Any water or waste containing any of the pollutants listed in
division (B)(3)(p) above, or any other similar objectionable or toxic substance
or pollutants to such a degree or extent that any such discharge exceeds the
limit(s) established by the City Council for such materials.
      (4)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City Council, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excess of the amount provided in division
(B)(3)(c) above, or any flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved be
City Council, and located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection.
         (a)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and watertight.
         (b)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuous operation at all
times.
   (C)   Specific pollutant limitations; local limits.
      (1)   (a)   Local limits are herein implemented to ensure that the PWTS
is able to meet the objectives given.
         (b)   These limits are established by the City Council after a
thorough evaluation of the PWTS, and in a manner such that the city and the
community are provided with the best service possible with respect to the
operation of the PWTS.
         (c)   These limits are expressed in terms of a mass-based allocation
of PWTS capacity to non-domestic users, and also in terms of maximum
concentrations of pollutants allowed to be present in the effluent(s) of the
non-domestic users of the PWTS.
      (2)   Under the terms of this article, the maximum concentrations of
pollutants allowed to be present in the effluent of any non-domestic user of
the PWTS who is not granted a specific allocation by permit are given as
follows:
Local Industrial Limits (mg/l)
Parameter Monthly Average Daily Maximum
Local Industrial Limits (mg/l)
Parameter      Monthly Average Daily Maximum
Arsenic        0.019           0.028
Benzene        0.036           0.036
Cadmium        0.05            0.12
Chromium (T)   1.6             2.4
Chromium (+6)  0.29            0.43
Copper         1.2             1.9
Cyanide (T)    0.44            0.66
Cyanide (free) 0.44            0.66
Ethyl benzene  2.0             2.0
Lead           0.42            0.63
Mercury        0.023           0.034
Molybdenum     0.033           0.050
Nickel         0.36            0.55
Silver         0.33            0.50
Toluene        0.68            0.68
Xylene         2.4             2.4
Zinc           2.5             4.5
Notes to Table:
State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than National Categorical Pretreatment Standard
requirements and limitations, or the limitations and requirements contained
in this article.
 
   (D)   No grandfathering. No person, firm, corporation, or other legal enmity
shall be exempt from immediate compliance with the terms of this section by
virtue of past practices or other circumstances under which an argument for so-
called “grandfathering” might be predicated, and each shall forthwith bring
his, her, its, or their facility into full and complete compliance with all
applicable terms hereof.
   (E)   Violation. A failure, refusal, or neglect of any person, firm,
corporation, or other legal entity to come and remain in full compliance with
the terms of this section shall be an offense against the peace and dignity of
the city, and if any person, firm, corporation, or legal entity be convicted of
violation of this section, such person, firm, corporation, or other legal
entity shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for
a first conviction under this section, and a fine of not less than $200 nor
more than $2,500 for each subsequent conviction for a violation of this
section. In any prosecution, each separate calendar day shall be considered a
separate offense and distinct violation of this section. In addition to such
fine and applicable court costs, any conviction under this section shall result
in imposition upon the person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity of the
full and complete cost of remediation of all conditions caused, in whole or in
part, by the conduct underlying such conviction, either as victim’s restitution
or as additional civil remedy in favor of the city. (Prior Code, § 5-500)
ARTICLE 6: FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE
Section
   
5-600   General provisions
   
5-601   Interpretation and definitions
   
5-602   Establishment of the floodplain area
   
5-603   Utilization of the floodplain area
   
5-604   Criteria for building and site plan approval
   
5-605   Specific requirements
   
5-606   Administration
   
5-607   Appeals and penalties
   
5-608   Government actions
   
5-609   Severability and municipal liability
§ 5-600 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   The provisions of this article have been prepared with the
intention of meeting the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968 (42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.) Amended by the Congress of the United States
through February 15, 1975 (Pub. Law No. 91-152).
      (2)   Authority to adopt, administer and enforce this article is vested
in the city pursuant to W. Va. Codes §§ 8-12-14, 7-1-3n, 7-1-3v, and 7-1-3kk
and/or W. Va. Code §§ 8A-4-2, 8A-5-7, and 8A-7-2.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community;
      (2)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future and to protect natural
drainage;
      (3)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water
supply and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the city sanitarian;
      (4)   Assure the City Assessor obtains information concerning improvement
of real property as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a;
      (5)   Assure the city E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the
currency of established emergency response dispatch systems; and
      (6)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article supersedes any
ordinance currently in effect in flood prone areas. Any ordinance, however,
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that its provisions are
more restrictive.
   (D)   Applicability. It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person,
partnership, business, or corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken,
any development, new construction, substantial improvement, repair of
substantial damage, or the placement or relocation of any structure (including
manufactured homes) within the city unless a permit application has been
completed and a permit or certificate of compliance has been obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator. In addition, where land, partially or fully in the
floodplain, is to be developed, subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home
park or subdivision, or otherwise developed, a site plan with elevation data
must be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to
any development. Provision of all other codes, ordinances, and regulations
shall be applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this
article, and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting
from flooding.
   (E)   Matters not provided for specifically. Where conditions are
encountered that are not specifically provided for herein, the Floodplain
Administrator shall determine the applicability of the provisions of this
article in accordance with its intent, and shall require the applicant to take
appropriate measures pursuant to such determination. (Prior Code, § 5-600)
§ 5-601 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretations. For the purpose of this article, the following
interpretations shall apply.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   The singular includes the plural.
      (3)   The plural includes the singular.
      (4)   The word PERSON includes corporation, unincorporated association,
or partnership as well as an individual.
      (5)   The term SHALL or WILL is always mandatory.
      (6)   The word BUILDING or STRUCTURE shall be construed as if followed by
the phrase “or part thereof.”
      (7)   The word ORDINANCE shall refer to the Floodplain Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood, which has been selected to serve as the basis upon
which the floodplain management provisions of this and other ordinances have
been prepared; for purposes of this article, the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to the datum specified on the community’s flood insurance rate map.
For the purposes of this article, the 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD,
or the flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the entire development,
including the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a structure, is in
compliance with all of the provisions of this article.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the special flood hazard area used to balance the loss
of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed
within the special flood hazard area.
      CONTRACTOR.
         (a)   A person who, in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck, or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure, or excavation associated with a project, development, or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures, or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $5,000 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee.(W. Va. Code § 30-42-3(d))
         (b)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
            1.   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
            2.   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases, whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
            3.   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and
who functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board,
whose primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development,
management, and maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional
capacity, and any employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or
her employment, performs any work which may be considered to be performing
contracting work;
            4.   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W.
Va. Code § 19-16A-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire, unless
the operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property
treated for insect pests; or
            5.   A corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship whose
primary purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
CONTRACTORS defined in this section, and who employs full time a registered
architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship.
      CRITICAL FACILITY.
         (a)   Any facility in which even a slight chance of flooding is too
great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals, fire stations,
police stations, storage of critical records, and similar facilities. These
should be given special consideration when formulating regulatory alternatives
and floodplain management plans.
         (b)   A CRITICAL FACILITY should not be located in a floodplain if at
all possible. If a CRITICAL FACILITY must be located in a floodplain, it should
be provided a higher level of protection so that it can continue to function
and provide services during a flood.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information, and water
surface elevations.
      FLOODPLAIN.
         (a)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream, or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
         (b)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff
of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of the City Office of Emergency
Services, the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, shall be the FLOODPLAIN
ADMINISTRATOR. The FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR may also be identified as the
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
      FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, and the adjacent
land area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing
the water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
      FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream
crossings, and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed foundation of a structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district, or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME DEALER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the State Code.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the State Code.
      LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the State Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in State Code.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG).
         (a)   The lowest natural elevation of the ground surface immediately
adjacent to the proposed development or structure foundation.
         (b)   The primary use of the LAG is to determine whether the structure
is located within a special flood hazard area by comparing it to the base flood
elevation.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood resistant materials
as defined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) and usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction, as
herein defined, commenced on or after September 16, 1988, and including any
subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction started after the
effective date of the city’s first floodplain ordinance adoption by the city
and before the effective start date of this floodplain ordinance is subject to
the ordinance in effect at the time the ordinance was issued, provided the
start of construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
      ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Any individual, or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va.
Ch. 30, Art. 13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering
education, training, and experience in the application of special knowledge of
the mathematical, physical, and engineering sciences to such services or
creative work as consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning, and design
of engineering works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching
of advanced engineering subjects, engineering surveys, and studies; and the
review of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications, any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects, and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health, or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress, and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of engineered
projects.
         (b)   Any PERSON who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card, or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Art. 13, or
who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs, any
engineering service or work, or any other service designated by the
practitioner which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or
offer to practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Art. 13.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVEGROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is ABOVEGROUND.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered
or licensed as a registered professional engineer by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers, as required under W. Va. Ch. 30, Art.
13 et seq.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this article, or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
      REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water should not
damage structures, and any subsurface waters related to the base flood should
not damage existing or proposed structures.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in flood insurance
studies and on flood insurance rate maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30, and A99.
The term includes areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are specifically
listed or otherwise described in this article.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION.
         (a)   The definition for START OF CONSTRUCTION is to be used only when
calculating the starting time for expiration of a permit.
         (b)   The date the permit was issued, including permits for
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, provided the actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond initial excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a permit must be
obtained prior to beginning, PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms,
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds, not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
main structure. For an alteration, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
      STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The State Division of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
      STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3u, any watercourse, whether
natural or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their
size, through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of
its volume.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
         (a)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby the cost
of restoring the structure to it before damage condition would equal or exceed
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
         (b)   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each flood event equals or exceeds 25%
of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
         (a)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official, and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would constitute a
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, as defined above, must comply with all article
requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure. Documentation that a specific article requirement will
cause removal of the structure from the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from the Secretary of
the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from
article requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of
a stream indicate the TOP OF BANK. In the field, a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF BANK. When a professional is
not employed, the TOP OF THE BANK will be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the water’s edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
      VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully
compliant with all requirements of this article. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required by this article is presumed to be in VIOLATION
until such time as that documentation is provided. (Prior Code, § 5-601)
§ 5-602 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   Identification.
      (1)   The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of the city
which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) and described in the flood insurance study (FIS) prepared for the
city by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated February 2, 2012,
or the most recent revision thereof.
      (2)   The identified floodplain area shall also be those areas which have
been identified as flood hazard areas by the city by use of historic or other
technical data, and shown on the city’s Local Flood Hazards Map. These areas
shall be designated as appropriate with the level of technical data described
below and shall be managed accordingly.
   (B)   Descriptions of floodplain areas. The identified floodplain shall
consist of the following four specific areas.
      (1)   The floodway area shall be those areas identified as such in the
FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include floodway areas
identified in studies required to be used in the approximated floodplain and
designated as such by the city.
      (2)   The floodway fringe area shall be those areas for which specific
100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS, but which lie beyond
the floodway area.
      (3)   The AE area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an
AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year
flood elevations have been provided, but no floodway has been delineated.
      (4)   The approximated area shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA, and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided.
   (C)   Changes in designation of area.
      (1)   The delineation of the identified floodplain area may be revised by
the City Council where natural or human-made changes have occurred, and/or more
detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a
River Basin Council, or other qualified agency or individual document the
necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   The city’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable
but, not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, the city shall notify the NFIP Administrator of the changes by
submitting technical or scientific data.
      (3)   The city may identify and regulate new flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas shall be delineated on a Local Flood Hazard Map using best
available topographic data and locally derived information such as flood of
record, historic high water marks, and/or approximate study methodologies.
   (D)   Elevations prevail. Elevation data certified by a licensed
professional surveyor or registered professional engineer shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The proposed development will automatically conform to the flood
damage reduction requirements of this article if the natural lowest adjacent
grade (LAG) to the proposed development is at or above the closest applicable
base flood elevation (BFE) specified in the flood insurance study. The
applicant shall be advised to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA to have the special flood hazard area designation removed from the
structure or specific area. If the difference between LAG and BFE is modest,
the applicant will also be advised to use caution during site preparation or
excavation, and information concerning the preferred risk policy should be
provided.
      (2)   The proposed development shall be considered to be within the
special flood hazard area if the natural LAG to the proposed development is
below either:
         (a)   The closest applicable BFE specified in the flood insurance
study; or
         (b)   Reasonably safe from flooding elevation determined by the city
in approximate floodplains. The proposed development shall then be required to
conform to all appropriate flood damage reduction provisions of this article.
   (E)   Boundary disputes. Should a dispute concerning any district boundary
arise, an initial determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator,
and any party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the City Council. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant/applicant. (Prior Code, § 5-602)
§ 5-603 UTILIZATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   Floodway (F1).
      (1)   Within any floodway, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development, shall be
permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The resultant
engineering study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the
responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In
addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (2)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
         (a)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements in
divisions (A)(2)(b) through (A)(2)(d) below, the applicant shall demonstrate
that there are no reasonable alternatives other than the floodway encroachment,
before a permit is issued.
         (b)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative, the
applicant shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum
necessary to accomplish the project.
         (c)   All permitted uses, activities, and development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the floodproofing and related provisions
contained herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
         (d)   In special flood hazard areas for which no regulatory floodway
has been designated, the regulatory floodway for small, single-lot development
not incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the
city, be determined to be the channel of the stream and the adjacent land areas
to a distance of one-half the width of the special flood hazard area as
measured from the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland limit of the
1% annual chance special flood hazard area boundary.
   (B)   Floodway fringe (F2). Within any floodway fringe area, any development
and/or use of land shall be permitted, provided that all such uses, activities,
and/or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the
floodproofing and related provisions contained herein, and in all other
applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
   (C)   AE Zone without floodway. Within any AE without floodway area, no new
construction or development shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the elevation of the
100-year flood more than one foot at any point. This requirement can be
satisfied by utilization of the floodway area where determined.
   (D)   Approximated floodplain (Zone A). Within any approximated floodplain
area:
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state, or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
      (2)   (a)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed, all
proposed development to determine:
            1.   The amount being invested; and
            2.   The specific flood risk at the site.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the applicant to
determine the elevation above which the development will be reasonably safe
from flooding using hydrologic and hydraulic analyses or other techniques. When
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken
by a registered professional engineer who shall certify that the methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study
shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing
a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted provided that
all such uses, activities, and/or development shall be undertaken in strict
compliance with the floodproofing and related provisions contained herein, and
in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
   (E)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (1)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within
the floodplain area, the developer shall notify, in writing, by certified mail,
City Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office, any adjacent
communities, and any adjacent property owners of all such intended activities
prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all required
notifications must be submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration. In
addition, prior to issuing the local permit the Floodplain Administrator shall
require copies of all necessary permits from those governmental agencies from
which federal or state law requires approval. Contact information for state and
federal permitting authorities, as well as addresses for required notification
of appropriate city, state, or federal government agencies, are contained in
city stream alteration administrative procedures.
      (2)   The developer shall also assure the city, in writing, that the
flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream
will be maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of the stream will provide
equal or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges, or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain best practice techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts, or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings, and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates, or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
      (4)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts, and other stream
crossings shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this
article.
      (5)   (a)   The developer is required to provide the community a legal
agreement detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed
on altered or relocated watercourses, including culverts, bridges, and other
stream crossings.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer this
agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred.
         (c)   A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
5-607(C).
      (6)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations, or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose. (Prior Code, § 5-603)
§ 5-604 CRITERIA FOR BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   General. Permits are required in order to determine whether all new
construction or substantial improvements are:
      (1)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway, or other flood
hazard area;
      (2)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), or the most
recent revision thereof;
      (4)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      (6)   To comply with W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a (building or real property
improvement notice) concerning the City Assessor; and
      (7)   Approved by the County Health Department for well, septic, and
other permits to assure facilities are designed and located in compliance with
the flood damage reduction requirements of this article.
   (B)   Basic format. The basic format of the permit shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of the land on which the proposed
development is to occur;
      (3)   Names, addresses, and valid state license numbers of all
contractors working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is
being performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing;
      (4)   A description of the site location sufficient to locate the
project, including tax map and parcel number, and most recent deed book and
page number;
      (5)   A standard site plan showing the size and location of the proposed
development, as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation, and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
      (6)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
5-606(C) hereof;
      (7)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of the Floodplain Management Programs access to the development
to inspect for compliance; and
      (8)   The contract required by W. Va. Code § 28-4, and all addendums to
the contract(s) shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator for review
within five business days of contract signing. The community does not require
and will not keep copies of the contracts or addendums. Failure to present
contract or addendums for review shall void the permit. If a licensed
contractor is not involved, or the work is of an aggregate value of less than
$10,000 including materials and labor, a brief written description of proposed
work and the estimated value will suffice.
   (C)   Elevation and floodproofing information. All applicants are encouraged
to exceed the minimum elevation requirements contained herein. Flood insurance
rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest
floor above the freeboard height required by this article. Depending on the
type of structure involved, the following information shall also be included in
the application for work within the floodplain area:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, and lowest floor certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure,
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures, and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas, and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         (f)   A finished construction elevation certificate must be prepared
by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualification.
The elevation certificate must confirm that the structure in question, together
with attendant utilities, is elevated in compliance with permit conditions; and
         (g)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the community determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below
base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall
state:
            1.   The area below the base flood elevation shall not be converted
for use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this article; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, and a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
5-607(C).
      (2)   For structures to be floodproofed to two feet above the base flood
elevation (non-residential structures only), all applicants are encouraged to
exceed the minimum floodproofing requirements contained herein. Flood insurance
rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of floodproofing
above the height required by this article. In order to obtain an elevation
credited flood insurance rate on dry floodproofed buildings, floodproofing must
extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (a)   Plans showing details of all floodproofing measures shall be
prepared by a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the
proposed structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed.
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, lowest floor, and floodproofing limits,
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor.
         (c)   A floodproofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the
plans in division (C)(1) above, stating the structure in question, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, is designed so that:
            1.   The structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact, and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures, and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (3)   For structures constructed of flood resistant materials used solely
for parking of vehicles or storage (appurtenant structures only):
         (a)   A site plan to be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor
or others of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground,
proposed finished ground, and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of
proposed flood resistant materials usage, and the size of the proposed
structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The
location of the floodway boundary shall be represented on the plan when a
floodway is present on the site; and
         (b)   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must
be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. This certificate or report must confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities is designed so that:
            1.   Flood resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), are used in the construction of the structure from
the lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation, and
that all utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood
elevation;
            2.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               a.   Minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      (4)   (a)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion
agreement and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion
agreement to any new owner at closing via notarized signature.
         (b)   A signed copy of the transferred non-conversion agreement shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement
and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the
violator to the penalties set forth in §
5-607(C).
   (D)   Site plan criteria.
      (1)   Site plans are required for all development, new construction, and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a mapped floodplain area,
and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   The owner or developer shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information:
         (a)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor, or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
         (b)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to floodplain areas, proposed lot sites, and fills;
         (c)   1.   Where the subdivision and/or development lies partially or
completely in the floodplain areas, the plan map shall include detailed
information, giving the location and elevation of proposed roads, public
utilities, and building sites; and
            2.   All such maps shall also show contours at intervals of two or
five feet depending upon the slope of the land, and identify accurately the
boundaries of the floodplain areas. A registered professional engineer or
licensed professional surveyor must certify the site plan.
         (d)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
which are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the
approximated floodplain area (F4), and which are greater than ten lots or two
acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and
shall delineate a floodway.
            1.   When a flood insurance study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study must be used to substantiate the base flood.
            2.   If a FEMA flood insurance study is not available, the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service, or
the State and Local Water Resource Department.
            3.   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a flood insurance study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently-accepted technical concepts.
      (5)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially in
the floodplain area, and all proposed development, including fill, will take
place on natural grade, a significant vertical distance above the approximated
floodplain area (Zone A) boundary depicted on the map, development of detailed
base flood elevation data may not be necessary. In these cases, the site plan
for the proposed development must show contours at intervals of two or five
feet, depending on the slope, and clearly delineate the area to be developed
and the location of the floodplain boundary as scaled from the FEMA map. A
registered professional engineer, licensed professional surveyor, or others of
demonstrated qualifications must certify the site plan.
   (E)   Restrictions to subdivision of land in special flood hazard areas.
Subdivision of land in the special flood hazard area shall result in lots that
include a buildable portion outside of the special flood hazard area, and be
served by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not lower
than one foot below the elevation of the line defining the special flood hazard
area limits. All new structures shall be sited on the portion of the subdivided
lot that is located outside of the special flood hazard area. (Prior Code, § 5-
604)
§ 5-605 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures, and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction, and to
construction of substantial improvements, and the repair of substantial damage,
to existing structures occurring in the floodplain area.
   (A)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation, or
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation, or
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of non-
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement, and which are subject to
flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings, having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and/or
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (4)   Non-conversion agreement. A non-conversion agreement shall be
signed by the applicant on all floodproofed structures, and any elevated
structures when the community determines that the area below the first floor
could be converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas
below the base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement
shall state:
         (a)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this article; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
5-607(C).
   (B)   Manufactured home placement. Certain unique characteristics of
manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas pose an elevated risk of
substantial damage to property. Thus:
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the identified flood
hazard areas of the city shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid
state manufactured home installer’s license. The installer shall use an
installation design engineered to withstand flood hazards specific to the
particular home site. Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
within the flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance with the
following standards:
         (a)   The lowest floor, ductwork, and utilities, including HVAC/heat
pump, shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent foundation
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength engineered for use
in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating dry stacked block
piers shall not be used in flood hazard areas;
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of
C.S.R. §§ 42-19-10A and 42-19-10B, as authorized by W. Va. Code § 21-9-4. The
anchoring shall be adequate to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, the over-the-top and
frame ties, attached to permanent foundation elements. Ground anchors may not
be adequate to satisfy flood specific anchoring requirements. This requirement
is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for
resisting wind forces;
         (d)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and perimeter wall skirts of
brick or block must have openings; this type of skirting can collapse during
floods and compromise supporting piers. The openings must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (2)   The licensed state manufactured home installer placing the unit
shall perform a site inspection and certify, in writing, that the manufactured
home has been installed to the standards set forth in this article.
      (3)   The Building Permit Officer shall issue one window sticker for all
new or replacement manufactured homes being permitted to be placed within the
special flood hazard areas. The sticker must be prominently displayed on a
window pane facing the street, and must remain permanently unobstructed and
visible from the street. The sticker shall show the number of the permit, the
date of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator. Any
manufactured home that secures a permit but fails to have the permit or the
sticker properly displayed will be subject to an on-site inspection fee of $25.
   (C)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, appurtenant structures
shall be located out of the floodplain area, or elevated to two feet above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply:
         (a)   Structures shall be no more than 200 square feet in size and
valued at less than $5,000;
         (b)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side;
         (c)   Structures shall be located, oriented, and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
         (d)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
         (e)   Flood resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), shall be used in the construction of the structure
from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (f)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances, and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation; and
         (g)   The venting requirements contained in Section 6.1(A) are
applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   In addition, a non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the
applicant stating that the use of the appurtenant structure, or detached or
attached garage, shall not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging
that the structure may be subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood
insurance premiums may be possible, and that a change in use may require full
compliance with this article. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers
of the existence of this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized
signature, and a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
5-607(C).
   (D)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any floodplain area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements, and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
article.
   (E)   Fill. The Council officially recognizes the beneficial functions the
floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
      (1)   Placement of fill in the special flood hazard area is discouraged
and should be minimized.
      (2)   No fill shall be permitted in the floodway.
      (3)   Placement of fill in other areas of the special flood hazard area
shall be restricted to functional purposes, such as elevating a structure. Fill
shall only be permitted in the same permit with the related structure or other
functional purpose. Placement of fill to dispose of spoil from excavation or to
elevate yards, parking lots, or fields will not generally be considered a
functional purpose. The Floodplain Administrator may require the developer to
provide compensatory storage before permitting fill.
      (4)   No fill shall be permitted unless it meets the requirements of §
5-603(A). All fill placed in the special flood hazard area shall meet or exceed
the following standards.
         (a)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The city may require the applicant to
demonstrate, through engineering reports, that proposed fill would not
adversely affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by registered professional engineers who
shall certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently
accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter,
signed and sealed by the responsible professional, providing a statement of
findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the
like, shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical
review by the city. During the permit review, the city shall consider the
following issues that have the potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent
properties:
            1.   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
            2.   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
            3.   Deflection of floodwaters onto adjacent existing structures;
            4.   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating
erosion problems; and/or
            5.   Other unique site conditions may be considered when
determining whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property,
including, but not limited to, subsidence areas, Karst topography, stream
blockages, and steep topography adjacent to the channel.
         (b)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
         (c)   Filled site shall be contoured to drain properly (avoid
ponding).
         (d)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance
to provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in divisions (E)(4)(g) and (E)(4)(h) below. For non-
residential structures, fill shall be placed to provide access acceptable for
intended use. At grade access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the
building line, shall be provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a non-
residential structure.
         (e)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on-
site.
         (f)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary
stability and resistance to erosion, scouring, or settling. Fill compaction
standards shall be appropriate to proposed post fill use, and particular
attention is necessary when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
         (g)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to, and approved, by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (h)   Fill site and fill shall be protected from erosion.
            1.   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters, with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less, will
be protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds, or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
            2.   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters, with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second,
will be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
         (i)   All applicants placing fill in a special flood hazard area shall
obtain a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant shall convert the CLOMR to a letter of map revision
based on fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
         (j)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations, or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the flood insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
   (F)   Placement of structures and other development.
      (1)   All structures and other development shall be constructed and
placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water,
and shall be designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and
height of floodwater.
         (a)   Whenever possible, structures and other development shall be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
         (b)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately
on the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
   (G)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All structures and other development, including stream crossings,
shall be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to
prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to
life and property, and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge
openings and other restricted sections of the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, and storage tanks located at or below
the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation.
   (H)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank or 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall
be maintained in this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the
watercourse and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be
given to planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks and enhance
aquatic resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this division (H).
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary,
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other
sitting standards, such as side, front, and back lot line setbacks.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
      (3)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this article, material that resembles fill material
shall not be considered storage material for purposes of this division (I).
   (J)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (K)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazard.
   (L)   Backflow preventers. Back flow prevention valves should be used for
all enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
floodplain. (Prior Code, § 5-605)
§ 5-606 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Director of the City
Office of Emergency Services, the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, shall be the
Floodplain Administrator and is vested with the responsibility, authority, and
means to implement the commitments made in the agreement with the federal
government to administer and implement this local law by granting or denying
floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions. The
Floodplain Administrator shall also be responsible for submitting all required
reports to FEMA concerning the city’s participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (B)   Development permits and site plan approvals required. It shall be
unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business, or corporation to
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new construction,
substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage, or the placement or
relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within the city
unless a permit application and standard site plan has been completed, and a
permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator. In addition, where
land that is either partially or fully in the regulatory floodplain is to be
subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision, or otherwise
developed, a detailed site plan must be submitted to, and approved by, the
Floodplain Administrator prior to any development.
   (C)   Approval of permits and plans.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
      (2)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code § 30-42-10.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit, shall
require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is duly
licensed as a contractor under the provisions of the State Code. If the
applicant is not licensed, a written affidavit that such person is not subject
to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor, as defined in W. Va. Code § 21-
11-3, shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and placed in the
permit file.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the City Assessor as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits
for new structures to the City E-911 Addressing Coordinator.
      (8)   The City E-911 Addressing Coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the City Floodplain Administrator.
      (9)   The city shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this article.
   (D)   Application procedures. Application for a permit and/or site plan
approvals shall be made, in writing, on the forms supplied by the city and
shall include all information stipulated under §
5-604.
   (E)   Changes. After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the
Floodplain Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the
application, permit, or any of the plans, specifications, or other documents
submitted with the application without the written consent or approval of the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (F)   Permit placards. The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit
placard, which shall be prominently displayed on the premises during the time
construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit,
the date of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator. This
shall be in addition to any other required building and special permits.
   (G)   Start of construction. Work on the proposed development shall begin
within 180 days after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall
expire, unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. All work on the proposed development must be completed within 18
months of permit issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The request
for a time extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the
extension. When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria:
      (1)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months?
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health, or welfare, or injurious to other property?
   (H)   Stop work orders, inspections, and revocations.
      (1)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
a stop work order notice for any development found ongoing without having
obtained a permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
5-607(C).
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
a stop work order notice for any development found non-compliant with the
provisions of this law and/or the conditions of the permit. Disregard of a stop
work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in §
5-607(C).
      (2)   Inspections, violation notice, and revocations.
         (a)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator, or
other authorized official, may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application, and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
         (b)   1.   When it appears after investigation that a permitted
development is non-compliant with the provisions of this law and/or the
conditions of the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
violator by means of written violation notice. The violation notice shall
specify the nature of the violation and request that the violation be corrected
within 15 days from the date appearing on the notice. Failure to correct the
violation within this time period shall be cause for revocation of the permit
and the governing body, or the authorized employee or agent to:
               a.   Seek an injunction in the Municipal Court of the city to
restrain the violator from continuing the violation, including, but not limited
to, requests for the removal of structures or land uses from the property
involved; and
               b.   Seek a misdemeanor conviction in Municipal Court,
Magistrate Court, or Circuit Court.
            2.   If the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a stop work order notice revoke the
permit and request a temporary injunction.
   (I)   Certificate of compliance.
      (1)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to
permit the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted, or wholly or
partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the building or land conforms to the requirements of this local law. Occupying
or using a building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the
violator to the penalties described in §
5-607(C).
      (2)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to inspect and
approve a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or
part thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until the
Inspector is in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by
the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development
being inspected conforms to the requirements of this local law. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
5-607(C).
      (3)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to install a
permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until a certificate
of compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating
that the development conforms to the requirements of this local law.
Installation of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the
violator to the penalties described in §
5-607(C).
      (4)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the local
Administrator upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of
special flood hazard.
      (5)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this article or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, floodproofing
certificate, or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
   (J)   Fees.
      (1)   Application for a permit for proposed development determined to be
occurring in a flood hazard area regulated by this article shall be accompanied
by an additional fee, payable to the city, based upon a set schedule approved
by the City Council using the estimated value of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing
city for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services.
      (3)   (a)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for
which a permit is required by this article is started or proceeded with prior
to obtaining a permit, the fees above specified shall be doubled. The
additional fee is intended to partially reimburse the city for the additional
cost of processing permits for work already underway.
         (b)   To more fully recover this cost, the fees above shall be tripled
for every subsequent occurrence by the same person. Payment of the increased
fee shall not relieve any person from complying fully with the requirements of
this article in the execution of the work or from other penalties prescribed
herein. (Prior Code, § 5-606)
§ 5-607 APPEALS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Appeals. Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the
Floodplain Administrator with respect to the provision of this article, it is
the right of that person to appeal to the City Council, which shall be known as
the Appeals Board. Such appeal must be filed with the City Council, in writing,
within 30 days after notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal,
the Appeals Board shall set a time and place not less than ten, nor more than
60, days for the purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be given to all parties, at which time they may appear and be
heard. The determination by the Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
   (B)   Appeal review criteria.
      (1)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative
substantial damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement, or
the freeboard requirements may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals
Board.
      (2)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this article
shall adhere to the following criteria:
         (a)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the appeal would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of an appeal will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing locals laws or ordinance.
      (b)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
      (c)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (d)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant, in writing, over the
signature of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a decision to allow construction of a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases
risk to life and property. Such notifications shall be maintained with a record
of all decisions as required in paragraph (4) of this section; and
         (e)   The Appeals Board shall:
            1.   Maintain a record of all decisions, including justification
for their issuance; and
            2.   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
         (f)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any
construction, development, use, or activity within any floodway area that would
cause any increase in the base flood elevation.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements
or provisions of this article or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or
any other authorized employee of the community, shall be unlawful and shall be
referred to the Municipal Prosecuting Attorney, who shall expeditiously
prosecute in Municipal Court, Magistrate Court, or Circuit Court all such
violators.
      (2)   A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the city of not
less than $50 or more than $500, plus cost of prosecution. In default of such
payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten days.
Each day during which any violation of this article continues shall constitute
a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are
hereby reserved, including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this article.
      (3)   The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or non-
compliance with, this article shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
with the article or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or non-compliance within a
reasonable time.
      (4)   Any structure constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered, or
relocated in non-compliance with this article may be declared by the City
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such. (Prior Code, § 5-607)
§ 5-608 GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Municipal annexation.
      (1)   The city floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the city for all annexed areas
until the city adopts and enforces an ordinance which meets the requirements
for participation in the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (2)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing the
floodplain ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing
identified flood hazards.
      (3)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the floodplain
boundaries, base flood elevation, and location of the floodway where
determined.
      (4)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), subpart (B), all
NFIP participating communities must notify the Federal Emergency Management, in
writing, whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation, or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority
to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area.
In order that all flood insurance rate maps accurately represent the
community’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority, must be included with the notification.
   (B)   Permits for government entities. Unless specifically exempted by law,
all public utilities and municipal, city, state, and federal entities are
required to comply with this article and obtain all necessary permits. Any
entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this article must provide
a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption. In addition, the
entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of all relevant legal
documentation demonstrating the exemption. (Prior Code, § 5-608)
§ 5-609 SEVERABILITY AND MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   Severability. If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this article shall be declared invalid for any reason whatever,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this article which
shall remain in full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of
this article are hereby declared to be severable.
   (B)   Liability. The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or
development plan in an identified flood-prone area shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the city, or by any
official or employee thereof, of the practicability or safety of the proposed
use, and shall create no liability upon the city. All applicants proposing
development in or near a flood hazard area are urged to locate development as
far away from, and as high above, all flooding sources as possible. (Prior
Code, § 5-609)
CHAPTER 6: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
0.   ELECTIONS GENERAL
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 0: ELECTIONS GENERAL
Section
   
6-1   General
§ 6-1 GENERAL.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the City Charter, adopted and approved
by the Governor, February 16, 1915, as amended in elections §§ 4 and 5,
elections shall be conducted, and the results determined and certified, in
accordance with the provisions of general law governing the conduct of general
elections so far as such law is applicable. If not inconsistent with the
Charter provisions, the duties imposed by such general laws upon the County
Clerk and Circuit Clerks shall devolve upon the City Clerk; the duties imposed
by such laws upon county courts shall devolve upon the Council; and the duties
imposed by such laws upon the Ballot Commission shall devolve upon the Election
Board.
   (B)   The provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 3 referring to elections, insofar as
such provisions can be applied within the city and insofar as not otherwise
provided by the city’s Charter or this code, shall govern the conduct of city
elections. (Prior Code, § 6-1)
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
6-100   Provisions and definitions
   
6-101   Municipal elections
   
6-102   Persons entitled to vote
   
6-103   Manner of voting
   
6-104   Chief election official
   
6-105   Voting by absentees
   
6-106   Municipal voting precincts
   
6-107   Precinct changes
   
6-108   Municipal precinct registration records
§ 6-100 PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANY ELECTION or ALL ELECTIONS. Includes every general, primary, or special
election held in this state, or in any of its subdivisions, for the purpose of
nominating or electing federal or state officers, or county, city, town, or
village officers of any subdivision now existing or hereafter created, or for
the purpose of electing members of a constitutional convention, or for voting
upon any public question submitted to the people of the state, or any of the
aforesaid subdivisions.
   CANDIDATE. Any person to be voted for at an election.
   ELECTION. The procedure whereby the voters of this state, or any subdivision
thereof, elect persons to fill public offices, or elect members of a
constitutional convention, or vote on public questions.   MINOR. Shall mean a
person who has not become 18 years of age.
   OFFICE. Shall mean PUBLIC OFFICE, which shall include:
      (1)   Any elective office provided for by the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or of this state, to which a salary or other compensation
attaches; and
      (2)   Membership in a constitutional convention.
   PUBLIC QUESTION. Any issue or proposition, now or hereafter required by the
governing body of this state, or any of its subdivisions, to be submitted to
the voters of the state or subdivision for decision at elections.
   VOTER. Any person who possesses the statutory and constitutional
qualifications for voting.(W. Va. Code § 3-1-2) (Prior Code, § 6-100)
§ 6-101 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of the State Code, or of any special
legislative or home rule city charter, the provisions of the following shall
apply to every municipal election held for any purpose:
      (1)   W. Va. Code Ch. 3, Art. 8 and 9;
      (2)   Any rules promulgated under authority granted in W. Va. Code Ch. 3,
Art. 8 and 9; and
      (3)   Any provisions of the State Code’s chapter making a practice or
conduct unlawful.
   (B)   For purposes of this article, the following shall be construed to, and
shall apply with equal force and effect to, the person or persons in a
municipal election upon whom this code, or the City Charter or ordinance,
imposes such duty or vests the same or similar authority:
      (1)   This section;
      (2)   The application of W. Va. Code Ch. 3, Art. 8 and 9;
      (3)   The application of the rules mentioned in the State Code section;
and
      (4)   The application of provisions of this chapter making a practice or
conduct unlawful, the provisions of law which impose any duty upon or define
any offense or prohibition with respect to the duty or authority of a county
officer or county election officer, or body of county election officers.
   (C)   Every municipality shall, by charter or ordinance, designate the
persons in the municipality who perform the same duties as any officer in a
county election. The designated persons shall attend a biannual election
training held and conducted by the office of the Secretary of State.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to abrogate the applicability of
other provisions of this article to municipal elections.(W. Va. Code § 3-1-2a)
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
§ 6-102 PERSONS ENTITLED TO VOTE.
   (A)   (1)   Citizens of the state shall be entitled to vote at all elections
held within the precincts of the counties and municipalities in which they
respectively reside.
      (2)   But no person who has not been registered as a voter as required by
law, or who is a minor, or who has been declared mentally incompetent by a
court of competent jurisdiction, or who is under conviction of treason, felony,
or bribery in an election, or who is not a bona fide resident of the state,
county, or municipality in which he or she offers to vote, shall be permitted
to vote at such election while such disability continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided by Federal or State Code.
      (3)   Subject to the qualifications otherwise prescribed in this section,
however, a minor shall be permitted to vote only in a primary election if he or
she will have reached the age of 18 years on the date of the general election
next to be held after such primary election.
   (B)   The Municipal registration records for the county precincts which are
within the city, as they are kept and maintained by the County Commission,
shall be the official registration of voters for any municipal election, and
only those persons so registered shall be eligible to vote.(W. Va. Code § 3-1-
3) (Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 6-103 MANNER OF VOTING.
   In all elections the mode of voting shall be by ballot, but the voter shall
be left free to vote by either open, sealed, or secret ballot, as he or she may
elect. Voting by ballot may be accomplished as provided in W. Va. Code Art. Ch.
3, 3, 4, 5, and 6.(W. Va. Code § 3-1-4) (Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 6-104 CHIEF ELECTION OFFICIAL.
   The chief election official of the city shall be the City Recorder, who
shall perform such duties as required by ordinance and by W. Va. Code Ch. 3.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 6-105 VOTING BY ABSENTEES.
   W. Va. Code Art. 3-3 is hereby adopted for absentee voting in city
elections. (Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 6-106 MUNICIPAL VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   At least three days prior to every municipal election, it shall be the
duty of the City Clerk of this municipality to procure from the municipal
precinct file in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission the
registration records necessary for the conduct of such election.
   (B)   Such records shall, within ten days after the date of this municipal
election, be returned to the office of the Clerk of the County Commission by
the municipality.
   (C)   In the case of a contested municipal election, the registration record
of any challenged voter shall be made available by the Clerk of the County
Commission to the City Council empowered to determine the contest. Such record
shall be returned to the office of the Clerk of the County Commission within a
reasonable time after the contest shall have been finally decided.
   (D)   The person obtaining and returning registration records shall obtain a
receipt of proof.
   (E)   In the event any municipal registration record is lost, destroyed,
defaced, or worn in any way as to warrant replacement, it shall be the duty of
the Clerk of the County Commission to prepare a duplicate of such record, and
it shall be the duty of this municipality to pay for such replacement.(W. Va.
Code § 3-1-27) (Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 6-107 PRECINCT CHANGES.
   If, by reason of destruction, the structure at which a voting place is
established, or if for any other reason the election cannot be held there,
unless changed by the City Clerk, the Commissioners of Election (§ 6-107) of
such place may hold the election at the nearest possible place which is
suitable for the election.(W. Va. Code § 3-1-7) (Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 6-108 MUNICIPAL PRECINCT REGISTRATION RECORDS.
   (A)   At least three days prior to every municipal election, it shall be the
duty of the City Clerk of this municipality to procure from the municipal
precinct file in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission the
registration records necessary for the conduct of such election.
   (B)   Such records shall, within ten days after the date of this municipal
election, be returned to the office of the Clerk of the County Commission by
the municipality.
   (C)   In the case of a contested municipal election, the registration record
of any challenged voter shall be made available by the Clerk of the County
Commission to the City Council empowered to determine the contest. Such record
shall be returned to the office of the Clerk of the County Commission within a
reasonable time after the contest shall have been finally decided.
   (D)   The person obtaining and returning registration records shall obtain a
receipt of proof.
   (E)   In the event any municipal registration record is lost, destroyed,
defaced, or worn in any way as to warrant replacement, it shall be the duty of
the Clerk of the County Commission to prepare a duplicate of such record and it
shall be the duty of this municipality to pay for such replacement.(W. Va. Code
§ 3-1-27) (Prior Code, § 6-105)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE DEPARTMENT
   Article
      
1.   VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2.   AUTHORITY OF LOCAL FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
3.   FIRE PROTECTION AND CONTROL
ARTICLE 1: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-11   Power and authority to form fire companies; recordation of statement;
organization
   
7-12   Dissolution of the Volunteer Fire Department
   
7-13   Duties of Fire Chief; definition
   
7-14   Support of volunteer fire company; return of property upon dissolution
§ 7-11 POWER AND AUTHORITY TO FORM FIRE COMPANIES; RECORDATION OF STATEMENT;
ORGANIZATION.
   Any number of persons, not less than 20, residing within the corporate
limits of a municipality without a paid fire department may form themselves
into a company for extinguishing fires therein. A writing stating the formation
of such company, with the names of the members thereof subscribed thereto,
shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the County Commission of the
county wherein such municipality or the major portion of the territory thereof
is located, after which the members of the company shall elect its officers,
including a commander, and make rules and regulations for effecting its object
consistent with the laws of the state and the ordinances of such municipality.
A volunteer fire company shall be subject to the authority of the governing
body.(W. Va. Code § 8-15-4) (Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 7-12 DISSOLUTION OF THE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   If the governing body finds that the membership of the Volunteer Fire
Department is below 20 members for three months in a row, or fails to keep its
equipment in such shape that it may perform the duties it was built for the
body, shall declare such failure and by order dissolve the company. A record of
this shall be recorded with the County Clerk. (Prior Code, § 7-2)
§ 7-13 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF; DEFINITION.
   The Fire Chief shall be the commander of the Volunteer Fire Department and
be selected by that Department’s members. He or she shall be responsible for
the upkeep of all equipment, and shall submit an annual report to the governing
body of the city on the condition of said equipment. (Prior Code, § 7-3)
§ 7-14 SUPPORT OF VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANY; RETURN OF PROPERTY UPON DISSOLUTION.
   This municipality may contribute to its Volunteer Fire Department by
providing a fire house, fire equipment, and other necessities needed to run the
company. The municipality may request an annual report from its Volunteer Fire
Department prior to budgeting or contributing to its funds. The annual report
shall include the revenue collected, and expenditures, assets, liabilities, and
financial condition of the funds of its Volunteer Fire Department. Upon
dissolution of the Fire Department, such equipment and property shall return to
the control of the municipality. (Prior Code, § 7-4)
ARTICLE 2: AUTHORITY OF LOCAL FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
7-21   Entry of building on fire or where reasonable cause to believe a fire is
in progress; adjoining premises
   
7-22   Authority of Chief or other firefighters in command when answering alarm
or extinguishing fire
   
7-23   Person in command at fire scene may take and preserve certain property;
restitution
   
7-24   Conducting investigation to determine cause of fire
   
7-25   Person attacking or hindering or obstructing firefighters or emergency
equipment; penalties
§ 7-21 ENTRY OF BUILDING ON FIRE OR WHERE REASONABLE CAUSE TO BELIEVE A FIRE IS
IN PROGRESS; ADJOINING PREMISES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or any firefighter in charge, or the
subordinates so ordered to do so may enter any building in which there is
believed to be a fire, or any building in which it is necessary to enter to
stop a fire from spreading or to fight a fire, or to protect either said
burning building or one nearby from burning. (Prior Code, § 7-5)
§ 7-22 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OR OTHER FIREFIGHTERS IN COMMAND WHEN ANSWERING ALARM
OR EXTINGUISHING FIRE.
   (A)   While a fire is in progress, all bystanders shall obey the direction
of the Fire Chief or the firefighter in control, or any of their subordinates.
   (B)   While going to the station, or extinguishing a fire or returning to
the station, the Fire Chief, or the firefighter in control, shall direct all
bystanders, order all firefighters, facilitate the movement of equipment and
firefighters, and, until a police officer arrives, direct traffic or order a
subordinate to do so. The Fire Chief, or firefighter in control, shall display
a firefighter’s badge or proper means of identification. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of the law, the authority granted in this section shall extend
to the activation of traffic control signals designed to facilitate the safe
egress and ingress of firefighting equipment at a station. (Prior Code, § 7-6)
§ 7-23 PERSON IN COMMAND AT FIRE SCENE MAY TAKE AND PRESERVE CERTAIN PROPERTY;
RESTITUTION.
   The Fire Chief, or any firefighter in charge, may take and preserve any
property that might show where the fire started. A person may petition the
court to re-obtain said property, however, the Judge may require a bond on the
property for the preservation of evidence. (Prior Code, § 7-7)
§ 7-24 CONDUCTING INVESTIGATION TO DETERMINE CAUSE OF FIRE.
   (A)   To determine the cause of fire, a Fire Chief or firefighter in control
may enter the scene of the fire for up to 48 hours after the fire.
   (B)   If there is evidence that such fire was of incendiary origin, the Fire
Chief, or other authorized firefighter, may control who may enter the scene of
such fire by posting no trespassing signs at such scene for a period of 48
hours after such fire has been extinguished.
   (C)   After the scene of a fire has been posted against trespassing, no
person shall enter such scene, unless he or she is an owner, lessee, or has
personal property at the scene, and then only after the area has been declared
safe. He or she may then salvage for personal property if he or she is with, or
has the permission of, an authorized Fire Department or company official.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)
§ 7-25 PERSON ATTACKING OR HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING FIREFIGHTERS OR EMERGENCY
EQUIPMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, while any Fire Department or company, or
firefighter, is in the process of answering an alarm of fire or extinguishing a
fire or returning to station, for any person to:
      (1)   Take any action for the purpose of hindering or obstructing any
firefighter equipment or emergency vehicle by any means; and/or
      (2)   Refuse to take any action for the purpose of hindering or
obstructing any firefighter, equipment, or emergency vehicle by any means.
   (B)   Any person willingly violating §§
7-22,
7-24, or this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than
$10 or more than $100. (Prior Code, § 7-9)
ARTICLE 3: FIRE PROTECTION AND CONTROL
Section
   
7-31   Power and authority of municipalities with respect to fires
   
7-32   Maintenance of fire hazard; order for repair or demolition; order to
contain notice to comply and right to appeal
   
7-33   False alarm of fire
   
7-34   Fireworks defined; labels required
   
7-35   Unlawful sale, possession, or use of fireworks; permit for public
display
   
7-36   Penalties
§ 7-31 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPALITIES WITH RESPECT TO FIRES.
   This municipality shall have the plenary power and authority to prevent and
extinguish fires, and in doing so it may regulate building construction, obtain
proper firefighting equipment, provide for the organization and government of a
volunteer or paid Fire Department and describe the powers and duties of the
Department and the power and duties of its commanders, and impose a penalty on
those who refuse the orders of the men and women they put in command. It may
give the authority to such officer to destroy anything he or she deems
necessary to stop a fire from burning, and levy a special service charge on the
municipality to pay for the organization of the Department. (Prior Code, § 7-
10)
§ 7-32 MAINTENANCE OF FIRE HAZARD; ORDER FOR REPAIR OR DEMOLITION; ORDER TO
CONTAIN NOTICE TO COMPLY AND RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   No person shall build or maintain anything that is a fire hazard or
might explode, or in violation of the fire safety laws of this municipality.
   (B)   Whenever the Fire Chief, or his or her deputies, finds any fire
hazard, he or she shall notify the owner, in writing, and send a copy to the
City Clerk.
   (C)   Any building, or portion thereof, device, apparatus, equipment,
combustible waste, or vegetation which, in the judgment of the Fire Chief, or
someone appointed by the governing body of this municipality, is in such a
condition as to cause a fire or explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment
the spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any cause, and
further, any building or portion thereof that does not meet the requirements of
the municipality’s Building Code.
   (D)   The owner shall have 30 days to comply with the order, or that person
may have a chance to file for a public hearing to be held within ten days of
the order before the housing authority, and then to the Circuit Court or
appeal. (Prior Code, § 7-11)
§ 7-33 FALSE ALARM OF FIRE.
   No person shall make, turn in, or telephone, or by use of any means or
methods of communication and/or abet, in the making or turning in of any alarm
of fire which he or she knows to be false at the time of making or turning in
of the alarm. (Prior Code, § 7-12)
§ 7-34 FIREWORKS DEFINED; LABELS REQUIRED.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS means any composition or device designed for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration,
or detonation. Fireworks include consumer fireworks, display fireworks, and
special effects. Fireworks does not include sparkling devices, novelties, toy
caps, or model rockets.(W. Va. Code § 29-3E-2) (Prior Code, § 7-13)
§ 7-35 UNLAWFUL SALE, POSSESSION, OR USE OF FIREWORKS; PERMIT FOR PUBLIC
DISPLAY.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall sell or use
fireworks; provided, the State Fire Marshal may grant permits for special
occasions such as fairs, amusement parks, municipalities, and others. All
permits are obtained through the State Fire Marshal after he or she has
inspected the fireworks and a bond has been posted. The permit is good only for
the one purpose it is listed for and is not transferable.
   (B)   The chief executive authority shall require a bond of not less than
$1,000 from a licensee on condition that he or she complies with this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-14)
§ 7-36 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Anyone harboring unlawful fireworks shall be fined not more that $100
and/or 30 days in jail.
   (B)   Anyone violating §
7-33 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more $100 and/or 30 days in
jail; a second offense goes to the Circuit Court.
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 and/or 30 days in
jail, or both. (Prior Code, § 7-15), Taxation, and Finance
 
 
 
CHAPTER 8: LICENSING, TAXATION, AND FINANCE
   Article
      
1.   LICENSING IN GENERAL
      
2.   BUSINESSES, ACTIVITIES, AND THE LIKE, REQUIRING LICENSES; FEES
      
3.   PROPERTY TAXES AND OTHER TAXES
      
4.   BUDGETING
      
5.   ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING
ARTICLE 1: LICENSING IN GENERAL
Section
   
8-11   Conditions precedent to doing business
   
8-12   Applications for and issuance of licenses; precedent conditions
   
8-13   Separate licenses required for each fixed place of business
   
8-14   Confidential nature of returns; limitations on divulging information
   
8-15   Recorder to maintain records of licenses
   
8-16   Term; renewal
   
8-17   Proration of license fees
   
8-18   License a personal privilege; non-assignable or transferable; changes
   
8-19   Display of license
   
8-20   License does not legalize unlawful acts
   
8-21   Collection by distraint
   
8-22   Penalty for failure to obtain or renew a license
   
8-23   Collection of back taxes and penalties; notice of discontinuance of
business
   
8-24   Collection by proceedings in court
   
8-25   Criminal violations of this chapter
   
8-26   Prosecution for violations; recourse of city to seek injunctive relief
   
8-27   Suspension and revocation of licenses and public hearings upon appeal
from revocation
§ 8-11 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS.
   Whenever a business, of which a state license is required, is to be done
within the corporate limits of this municipality, the governing body thereof
shall have the power and authority, if it so desires, to require a municipal
license thereof; and for the use of this municipality, to impose a reasonable
tax thereon which may not exceed the amount of the state license tax. Upon
proper application for a municipal license and the payment of the tax by anyone
who has a valid and subsisting state license, the municipal license shall be
issued. Payment in full of the proper tax or fee, as required by this chapter,
the issuance of a municipal license certificate, and the fulfillment of all
terms and conditions of such grant shall be conditions precedent to the
transaction of any business, activity, trade, profession, or employment for
which a municipal license is required. (Prior Code, § 8-1)
§ 8-12 APPLICATIONS FOR AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; PRECEDENT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any person who desires a license provided for in this chapter shall
make an application to the Municipal Recorder on forms to be prescribed and
furnished by the Recorder. At the time of application, the requestee of the
license shall tender the license tax for each license certificate requested.
   (B)   Applicants who are holders of business franchise certificates or other
forms of state licenses authorizing them to do business within the city shall
display such state certificates or licenses to the Municipal Recorder at the
time of making application for the municipal license. Upon collection in full
of the proper taxes and fees imposed by this chapter, and the determination to
his or her satisfaction that all the conditions precedent to the granting of
any license have been met by the applicant, the Municipal Recorder shall issue
the certificate of license. Failure, on the part of the applicant, to fulfill
the precedent conditions shall constitute grounds for denial. (Prior Code, § 8-
2)
§ 8-13 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED FOR EACH FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any person who, at more than one fixed place of business within the city,
engages in or prosecutes any business, activity, trade, profession, or
employment for which a municipal license is required shall obtain a separate
license and pay the prescribed tax or fee for each such fixed place of business
and for each such business, activity, trade, profession, or employment. (Prior
Code, § 8-3)
§ 8-14 CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF RETURNS; LIMITATIONS ON DIVULGING INFORMATION.
   All returns and tax statements made by municipal taxpayers shall be regarded
as confidential. The Municipal Recorder, his or her agents and employees, and
former Municipal Recorders, agents, and employees, shall not divulge any facts
or information obtained in the administration of this chapter, excepting
judicial orders or acts required by the proper administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4)
§ 8-15 RECORDER TO MAINTAIN RECORDS OF LICENSES.
   The Municipal Recorder shall maintain on file all applications for licenses
and the renewal of licenses received by him or her, together with a record of
each license issued or renewed by him or her. The record shall show the name
and business address of the licensee, the date of issuance, and the term for
which it is issued, the type of license, the amount of license tax paid, the
number of the license, and such other information as may be deemed relevant to
the establishment that all requirements have been met. The Recorder shall
preserve all applications and records for a period of no less than five years.
Upon the termination of said period, the Municipal Recorder shall have the
authority to dispose of all such applications and records. (Prior Code, § 8-5)
§ 8-16 TERM; RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise
expressly provided, shall be in effect for a period of one year, beginning July
1 and ending on June 30 of the following year. On or before July 1 of each
year, all persons having a municipal license shall apply to the Municipal
Recorder for a renewal for the next year, unless such person has ceased to
operate and does not plan to continue operation during the next year. (Prior
Code, § 8-6)
§ 8-17 PRORATION OF LICENSE FEES.
   The initial license tax or fee for businesses shall be prorated in the
following manner, unless otherwise provided in this chapter. All licenses
granted prior to January 1 shall be charged the full amount of such license tax
or fee, and all licenses granted after January 1 shall be charged one-half of
the full license tax or fee. No license, however, shall be issued for less than
$2. (Prior Code, § 8-7)
§ 8-18 LICENSE A PERSONAL PRIVILEGE; NON-ASSIGNABLE OR TRANSFERABLE; CHANGES.
   (A)   (1)   Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
confer a personal privilege only to transact the business which is the subject
of the license, and it shall not be exercised except by the persons holding the
said business and license.
      (2)   The license shall not be assignable nor transferable.
   (B)   (1)   Changes in the name of the person, location, address, ownership,
or in real parties of interest shall be considered a cessation of the business
and a new license required.
      (2)   Changes of partners, members of firms, or offices of a corporation
shall not require a new license. (Prior Code, § 8-8)
§ 8-19 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person to whom a municipal license is issued shall keep such
license posted in a conspicuous position upon or within the premises to which
such license relates.
   (B)   Each licensee having no fixed place of business shall carry his or her
license upon his or her person while engaging in the licensed business or any
transaction incidental to such business.
   (C)   All licenses shall be produced for inspection upon the request of any
person with whom he or she is transacting business, the City Recorder, the City
Solicitor, or any law enforcement officer. (Prior Code, § 8-9)
§ 8-20 LICENSE DOES NOT LEGALIZE UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   Nothing in this chapter, and no payment for, or issuance of, any municipal
license under the aforementioned provisions, shall be deemed to legalize any
act which otherwise may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person from
any penalty prescribed for such violation. (Prior Code, § 8-10)
§ 8-21 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The Municipal Recorder, or his or her agents, may distrain upon any personal
or real property, including intangibles, of any person delinquent in the
payment of taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid under the provisions of this
chapter, and may require the assistance of the Chief of Police who shall be
authorized to distrain immediately upon request, as aforesaid, for the amount
which any person may have been assessed under the provisions of this chapter,
and to sell, upon ten days’ notice, so much of said person’s property as may be
necessary to pay the tax so assessed, including penalties. (Prior Code, § 8-11)
§ 8-22 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN OR RENEW A LICENSE.
   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, whether without obtaining a municipal license
before commencing the business or by continuing the conduct of business after
the termination of the effective period of any such municipal license, may, in
addition to paying the prescribed license fee or tax, be liable for a penalty
of $50 for each month, or fraction of a month, during which he or she has been
in default of such payment. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Recorder to
collect the full amount of the license fee or tax and the penalty imposed.
(Prior Code, § 8-12)
§ 8-23 COLLECTION OF BACK TAXES AND PENALTIES; NOTICE OF DISCONTINUANCE OF
BUSINESS.
   (A)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, whether without obtaining a municipal license
before commencing the business or by continuing the conduct of business after
the termination of the effective period of any such municipal license, shall,
in addition to all other penalties provided in this chapter, be liable for the
payment of all back taxes andpenalties for a period not exceeding five years.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever any person ceases to engage in a business in this
municipality by reason of the discontinuance, sale, or transfer, or by any
other means of disposition, of the business, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the Municipal Recorder, in writing, of the cessation of business.
      (2)   The notification shall include the date of cessation, and the name
and address of the seller or transferor and purchaser or transferee.
   (C)   Unless the notice shall have been given to the Municipal Recorder as
provided above, such seller or transferor and purchaser or transferee shall be
jointly liable to this municipality for the amount of all taxes and penalties
accrued under the provisions of this chapter. (Prior Code, § 8-13)
§ 8-24 COLLECTION BY PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.
   The Municipal Recorder may collect any license tax, fee, or penalty unpaid
under the provisions of this chapter by appropriate legal procedures in any
court of competent jurisdiction. (Prior Code, § 8-14)
§ 8-25 CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Except as may herein be expressly provided, any person violating any
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, and/or
imprisoned for a term not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   Each day, or part of a day, that any violation continues shall be
deemed to constitute a distinct and separate offense, and shall be punishable
accordingly. (Prior Code, § 8-15)
§ 8-26 PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS; RECOURSE OF CITY TO SEEK INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If any person becomes subject to the penalties provided for under §§
8-22 and
8-25 of this chapter he or she shall be subject to immediate prosecution in the
Municipal Court. In addition, the City Solicitor may, in the name of the
municipality, seek injunctive relief as may be appropriate in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Prior Code, § 8-16)
§ 8-27 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES AND PUBLIC HEARINGS UPON APPEAL
FROM REVOCATION.
   The Municipal Recorder, upon a 30-day notice to the licensee, may summarily
revoke any license issued by him or her, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, for any reason which would have been grounds for denial of such
license when first issued, for violation of any term or condition of such
license, for violation of any relevant provision of state law, this city’s
code, or other ordinance, or for the perpetration or attempted perpetration of
fraud, malpractice, or malfeasance by the licensee. Any person having an
interest in any license so revoked and who feels aggrieved by the revocation
may request the Municipal Recorder to further investigate the grounds for
revocation, and to reconsider his or her action. If the Municipal Recorder
accedes to such a request, he or she may suspend or reinstate the license,
pending the final decision. If the Municipal Recorder refuses to accede to such
a request, or if, upon reconsideration, he or she affirms his or her revocation
of the license, the party so aggrieved may appeal to the governing body. He or
she may appear in person or by counsel, and may have the attendance of
witnesses, books, and papers in his or her behalf, and may testify in person.
The decision of the governing body following such hearing shall be final,
subject only to such judicial review as may be provided by law. (Prior Code, §
8-17)
ARTICLE 2: BUSINESSES, ACTIVITIES, AND THE LIKE, REQUIRING LICENSES; FEES
Section
   
8-201   Advertising by outdoor billboards or signs
   
8-202   Auctioneers
   
8-203   Bowling lanes and billiard, pool, bagetelle tables
   
8-204   Brokers and real estate dealers
   
8-205   Coin operated merchandise, services, music, amusement, and the like
devices
   
8-206   Same: non-profit organizations
   
8-207   Collection agencies
   
8-208   Employment agents; exemption
   
8-209   Fortune telling
   
8-210   Hawkers and peddlers; exemptions
   
8-211   Hotels and restaurants
   
8-212   Junk dealers and their agents
   
8-213   Pawnbrokers
   8-214   Stores
   8-215   Theatres and public shows
   8-216   Theatrical performances
   8-217   Summary of licensing fees
§ 8-201 ADVERTISING BY OUTDOOR BILLBOARDS OR SIGNS.
   Every person engaged in the business of outdoor advertising by billboards or
signs within this municipality shall pay an annual license fee of $100. (Prior
Code, § 8-18)
§ 8-202 AUCTIONEERS.
   Every person carrying on the business of auctioneer shall pay an annual
license fee of $15. (Prior Code, § 8-19)
§ 8-203 BOWLING LANES AND BILLIARD, POOL, BAGETELLE TABLES.
   The annual license fee to keep or maintain a bowling lane, a billiard, pool,
or bagetelle table, or a table of like kind, for public use, where any charge
is made for the use thereof, shall be $25, but, if more than one such lanes or
tables be kept or maintained in the same building by the same person, the fee
shall be $25 for the first one and $15 for each additional one. (Prior Code, §
8-20)
§ 8-204 BROKERS AND REAL ESTATE DEALERS.
   (A)   The annual license fee to practice the business of stock and
securities broker, or broker other than pawnbroker, by buying and selling for
others stocks, securities, or property, for commission, compensation, or
reward, shall be $50.
   (B)   The annual license fee to practice the business of real estate broker
shall be $50. The annual license fee to practice the business of real estate
salesperson shall be $25. The term REAL ESTATE BROKER, within the meaning of
this section, shall include all persons, partnerships, associations, and
corporations who, for a fee, commission, or compensation, or who with the
intention or expectation of receiving or collecting said fee, commission, or
compensation, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, manages, leases,
auctions, negotiates, attempts to negotiate, or assists in the procuring of a
purchaser of real estate.
   (C)   The term REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON shall mean and include any person
employed or engaged by a licensed real estate broker to do or deal in any
activity listed in this section for a fee, commission, or compensation.
   (D)   Neither the term REAL ESTATE BROKER nor REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON shall
be held to include any person, partnership, association, or corporation, who,
as a bona fide owner or lessor, shall perform any aforementioned act.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to licensed practicing attorneys who, in
the normal course of their profession, are acting in behalf of clients. (Prior
Code, § 8-21)
§ 8-205 COIN OPERATED MERCHANDISE, SERVICES, MUSIC, AMUSEMENT, AND THE LIKE
DEVICES.
   (A)   Persons owning and operating coin-operated merchandise, service,
music, amusement, or vending machines shall obtain annual licenses and pay the
fees prescribed in this section. The liability for the licensee to operate any
type of coin-operated merchandise, service, amusement, music, or vending
machines shall be upon the owner of the machine. The leasing of such a machine
shall not be considered as a transfer of ownership. Where a leasor-leasee
relationship exists, the leasor shall be liablefor the applicable license and
fee.
   (B)   The annual license fee to own and operate a coin-operated baggage or
parcel checking device, which is used for the storage of baggage or parcels or
any character, shall be $0.50 for each section of any such device which is
operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle; the annual license fee to own and
operate any coin-operated toilet locker or device, sanitary napkin device, or
bed vibrator device shall be $0.50 for each such locker or device. The
municipality shall not furnish decal stamps for these devices; however, the
owner shall identify each machine by installing on each device an
identification label, plainly legible and visible, in such a manner that the
machine need not be moved to observe the identification label, and the
identification label shall contain the name of the owner, his or her license
owner, and his or her address within the municipality.
   (C)   The annual license fee to own and operate a total of 20 or more coin-
operated merchandise, service, amusement, or music devices of the following
types shall be: $0.01 devices, $50; $0.05 devices, $150; $0.10 devices, $250;
over $0.10 devices, $300. The operator of more than one type of such devices
shall pay the highest fee prescribed. The annual license fee to own and operate
less than 20 amusement or music devices shall be upon a per-device basis as
follows: $0.01 devices, $2; $0.05 devices, $5; $0.10 devices, $10; over $0.10
devices, $12.50. Any device taking more than one denomination of coin shall be
licensed on the basis of the largest denomination of coin taken, or the total
of the coins necessary to make the device function or operate.
   (D)   The aforementioned fees are not proratable if taken out during the
license year, nor shall paid fees be refundable if a license is revoked,
suspended, or if the business ceased during the license year.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any pay
telephone, postage stamp vending machines, or currency changing machines
operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle.
   (F)   No license fee shall be required of persons keeping or maintaining
such machines or devices owned by them in their own licensed stores, except
where the principal business of the store is the operation of such machines and
devices. Any person exempt from such license, however, shall obtain from the
Municipal Recorder a license receipt, at a cost not to exceed $0.50 each,
showing that he or she is exempt. To obtain such license exemption, he or she
shall make an affidavit and produce such other evidence showing him or her to
be entitled to an exemption as the Municipal Recorder may require. Such
affidavit and evidence shall be on a form to be prescribed by the Municipal
Recorder.
   (G)   The owner of a coin-operated merchandise, service, amusement, music,
or a vending machine is liable for the payment of the license fee and, upon his
or her refusal or failure to pay such fee, the Municipal Recorder, or his or
her agents, may take such machine or device into possession and deliver it to
the Chief of Police, or the Chief of Police on his or her own initiative or
upon the order of the Municipal Recorder, or his or her agents, may take such
machine or device into possession. In either event, such machine or device
shall be impounded until such license fee is paid. In the event the license fee
and penalties are not paid to the Municipal Recorder within ten days after the
date of impounding, then the Chief of Police shall sell such machine or device
in the manner provided by law for the sale of personal property for taxes. The
proceeds from such a sale shall be used to pay the license fee and penalties
due on such a machine or device, and the Chief of Police’s costs, including
cost of impounding and storage. The balance, if there is one, shall be
forfeited to the city. (Prior Code, § 8-22)
§ 8-206 SAME: NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   No license fee shall be required under the provisions of §
8-205 of any person keeping or maintaining within the municipality any coin-in-
the-slot machines or devices which are not gambling devices under the laws of
this state if the owner, operator, or sponsor of such machines or devices
attaches to his or her license application the affidavit of the chief official
of a non-stock corporation or non-profit organization, stating that:
   (A)   Not less than 20% of the gross receipts from such machines or devices
are payable to the non-stock corporation or non-profit organization;
   (B)   The gross receipts paid to such non-stock corporation or non-profit
organization shall be used solely for benevolent, patriotic, civic,
educational, or philanthropic purposes; and
   (C)   The execution of the affidavit has been authorized by a duly
constituted meeting of the trustees, directors, or members of such non-stock
corporation or non-profit organization. (Prior Code, § 8-23)
§ 8-207 COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   (A)   The annual license fee to engage in the business of a collection
agency shall be $100. Each applicant for such a license shall file with the
Municipal Recorder a continuing surety bond in the form prescribed by the
Municipal Recorder. Each bond shall be in the amount of $5,000, conditioned
that such agency or its agent will pay all damages resulting from any unlawful
act or action by such agency in connection with the conduct of the business.
   (B)   Within this section, COLLECTION AGENCY shall mean all persons, firms,
corporations, and associations directly or indirectly engaged in the business
of soliciting from, or collecting from, others any account, bill, or
indebtedness due or asserted to be owed or due another person. (Prior Code, §
8-24)
§ 8-208 EMPLOYMENT AGENTS; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   The annual license fee to conduct the business of an employment
agent to receive applications for employment, and to hire or contract with
persons for employment, shall be $200.
      (2)   The annual license fee for an agency or registry used for
employment of registered professional nurses, practical nurses, or
undergraduate nurses shall be $25, provided that the provisions of this section
shall not be applicable to any agency or registry operated by a professional
registered nurses association for the benefits of its registrants and not for
profit.
   (B)   The term EMPLOYMENT AGENT, within this section, shall mean and include
all persons, firms, corporations, church, and charitable associations, which
furnish, to persons seeking employment, information enabling or tending to
enable them to secure such employment, or which furnish, to employers seeking
laborers, information enabling or tending to enable them to secure such
laborers, or shall keep a register of persons seeking employment. (Prior Code,
§ 8-25)
§ 8-209 FORTUNE TELLING.
   The annual license to act as a fortune teller, palmist, phrenologist,
spiritualist, medium, clairvoyant, mind reader, or any other person who
performs the art or profession of telling the past or forecasting the future
shall be $200. Persons who perform said art or profession as a non-profit basis
shall be exempt from the above license. (Prior Code, § 8-26)
§ 8-210 HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HAWKER AND PEDDLER. Any person, either principal or agent, whether a
resident of the city or not, who travels by foot, wagon, automobile, vehicle,
or any other type of conveyance, from town to town, or from place to place,
selling or bartering, or carrying for sale or barter, or exposing therefor, any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or foodstuffs or beverages, offering and exposing
the same for sale or making sales and delivering articles to inerrant/
purchasers either on foot or from animal, cart, or vehicle, or any parson who
travels from town to town, or place to place in the same town, offering to
perform personal services for household repairs and improvements, or solicits
or induces any person to sign any contracts relating to household repairs and
improvements, including, but not limited to, contracts for replacements,
improvements, or installation.
      ITINERANT MERCHANT/TRANSIENT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
firm, or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, and
whether a resident of the municipality or not, who, for the purpose of carrying
on such business who engages temporarily within the municipality, in any public
or quasi-public place, including, but not limited to, a hotel, motel, rooming
house, store room, building, part of a building, tent, vacant lot, railroad
car, vehicle, or trailer, temporarily occupied for the purpose of making retail
sales of goods to the public in the business of selling and delivering goods,
wares, and merchandise, or taking orders for future delivery for goods,
merchandise, or services, offering to perform personal services for household
repairs and improvements, or solicits or induces any person to sign any
contracts relating to household repairs and improvements, including, but not
limited to, contracts for replacements, improvements, or installation to or at
homes, apartments, or other residential premises in the municipality.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT. A food service establishment within a vacant
lot, table, tent, pushcart, vehicle, or towed type vehicle used to store,
prepare, display, service, or sell food or drink, or distribute it free of
charge for consumption in a place other than in or on the unit.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDOR/ITINERANT FOOD VENDER. Any person, firm, or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, and whether a
resident of the municipality or not, engages temporarily within the
municipality in the business of selling and delivering food or drink, or
distributes it free of charge from a mobile food vending unit in any public,
private, or restricted place.
   (B)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of a hawker,
peddler, itinerant vendor, mobile food vendor, solicitor, canvasser, or
salesperson within the city unless a license has been obtained to do so.
   (C)   Location. No peddler or itinerant shall have any exclusive right to
any location, nor shall he or she be permitted to operate in any congested area
where his or her operations might impede or inconvenience the public. For the
purpose of this section, the judgment of a police officer or the Mayor,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
   (D)   Time restrictions. No person shall sell, offer for sale, hawk, or
peddle in the city any of the items listed unless the time for sale is found to
be reasonable and within the hours established in the license for the sale of
these items.
   (E)   Compliance with other laws. Nothing contained within this section
shall, in any way, exempt any applicant from compliance with all state,
federal, county, and municipal statutes, ordinances, and regulations,
including, but not limited to, W. Va. Code §§ 11-12-20 et seq., and law
relating to taxation, public health, consumer protection, licensing, and the
like.
   (F)   Exemptions. The following persons are hereby exempt from the
provisions of this article.
      (1)   Any person that is organized and operated exclusively for
religious, educational, philanthropic, benevolent, fraternal, or charitable
purposes not operated for pecuniary profit, where no part of the net earnings
inures to the benefit of any person, shareholder, or individual, or where the
solicitation, sale, or delivery shall be conducted within an organization and
only among the members thereof.
      (2)   Any person defined in this article that is employed by or
represents a business, firm, or corporation which is located within the city
limits, who is otherwise licensed under the general store licensing provisions
of the city.
      (3)   Commercial travelers or selling agents who sell only to entities
who purchase tangible personal property for purpose of resale to others.
      (4)   FARMERS MARKET, which means any person selling agricultural
products grown or produced in the county or adjacent state counties, from a
parked motor vehicle or temporary stand on the days, and at the times and
locations specified for farmers market by Council.
      (5)   State, county, and municipal fairs, festivals, and carnivals which
are community sponsored and approved by the municipality.
   (G)   Application and fee for license.
      (1)   A hawker, peddler, itinerant vendor, mobile food vendor, solicitor,
canvasser, or salesperson prior to transacting any business within the
corporation boundaries must appear at City Hall, and apply for and obtain a
license, entitled “solicitor’s license,” by written application. Such person
shall state his or her full name, address, Social Security number, telephone
number, driver’s license number, motor vehicle make, model, color, and license
number, and if applicable, the applicant’s state transient vendor business
registration certificate number and date thereof, such certificate being
required by W. Va. Code § 11-12-20; the nature of the goods, services,
contracts, and the like to be sold or offered for sale; and any other
reasonable and pertinent license information.
      (2)   (a)   The fee for a solicitor’s license shall be $25 for a one
time, one day license.
         (b)   The fee for a solicitor’s license shall be $50 for a one-month
license.
         (c)   The fee for a solicitor’s license shall be $200 for a six-month
license.
         (d)   A $10 application fee shall be included as an administrative fee
on all licenses.
      (3)   A $250 bond, at the discretion of the City Recorder, may be
required before a license shall be issued. Such deposit shall be held by the
City Recorder for a period of 90 days after such person ceases to do business
within the city, and after satisfying all claims which shall be made against
him or her. The City Recorder shall, after a written request has been made,
return such deposit or such portion thereof as remains in his or her hands to
the person who deposited it.
   (H)   License to be carried and displayed. The transient vendor shall keep
the business registration certificate in his or her possession at all times
when conducting business within this municipality. He or she shall publicly
display the certificate whenever conducting business in this city. A licensee
shall be posted conspicuously in a place of business or, in the case of
transient merchants, in some other conspicuous place, or carry his or her
current valid license upon his or her person and shall display such license to
any consumer, law officer, or city official if requested to do so.
   (I)   Penalty. Any person engaging in or carrying out any business activity,
trade, or employment for which a license is required by the terms of this
article, whether without obtaining a license therefor before commencing the
same, or by continuing the same after the termination of the effective period
of any such license, shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $500, plus
the cost of the appropriate solicitor’s license. Each day’s continuation of
such violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Prior Code, § 8-27)
§ 8-211 HOTELS AND RESTAURANTS.
   The annual license fee to operate the business of a hotel or motel shall be
$2, and an additional $0.25 shall be charged for each bedroom in excess of
seven such bedrooms. The annual fee for the operation of a restaurant shall be
$2, and an additional $0.25 shall be charged for each five chairs or stools, or
spaces, where persons are fed in excess of ten. No fee, however, for a hotel,
motel, or restaurant shall exceed $10. (Prior Code, § 8-28)
§ 8-212 JUNK DEALERS AND THEIR AGENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      JUNK. Old or scrap gold, copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper,
rubber, automobile parts, iron, steel, and other old scrap ferrous or non-
ferrous metals.
      JUNK DEALER’S AGENT. All persons who buy or sell junk for, or on behalf
of, a junk dealer, but the term JUNK DEALER’S AGENT shall not be construed to
include any persons regularly employed upon a salary by a regularly licensed
junk dealer engaged in such business within the city.
      ITINERANT JUNK COLLECTOR. Such persons who gather junk from place to
place with the aid of a cart or vehicle, hand drawn or propelled, who have no
fixed place of business.
      NON-RESIDENT JUNK DEALER or NON-RESIDENT JUNK DEALER’S AGENT. All persons
who act as junk dealers, or junk dealer’s agents, who are non-residents of the
municipality, and who buy or solicit for the purchase of junk within the
municipality.
   (B)   Annual license. The annual license to act as a resident junk dealer
shall be $25; to act as a junk dealer’s agent, $10; to act as a itinerant junk
collector, $2; to act as a non-resident junk dealer or non-resident junk
dealer’s agent, $150.
   (C)   Non-resident junk dealers, agents. Any non-resident junk dealer, or
his or her agent, may/may not purchase junk from a resident junk dealer without
complying with the provisions of this section. (Prior Code, § 8-29)
§ 8-213 PAWNBROKERS.
   The annual license fee to engage in the business of pawnbroker shall be
$100. The term PAWNBROKER shall include any person, firm, partnership,
association, or corporation engaged in the business of lending, money on
deposit or pledge of personal property or other valuable thing, other than
securities or printed evidence of indebtedness, or in the business of
purchasing personal property for the purpose of reducing or smelting such
property into any form different from their condition or construction when
purchased and reselling or marketing the product. (Prior Code, § 8-30)
§ 8-314 STORES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term SPECIAL STORE shall mean and
include any store or any mercantile establishment in which goods, wares, or
merchandise or any kind, except cigarettes, tobacco products, or soft drinks,
are purchased, ordered, sold, or offered for sale, either at retail or
wholesale, and which contains no coin-operated device(s) owned and operated by
the store proprietor. The term GENERAL STORE shall mean and include any store
(s) or any mercantile establishment(s) in which goods, wares, or merchandise of
any kind are purchased, ordered, sold, or offered for sale, either at retail or
wholesale. Within this section, no coin-operated device or devices shall be
construed to be a store.
   (B)   Every person establishing, operating, or maintaining one or more
general stores within the city under the same general management, supervision,
or ownership shall pay an annual license fee of $15 per store. Every person
establishing, operating, or maintaining one or more special stores within the
city under the same general management, supervision, or ownership shall pay an
annual license fee of $5 per store.
   (C)   The establishment, operation, or maintenance of stores by the
following shall be exempt from the license fee imposed by this article:
      (1)   The United States of America, the state, and its political
subdivisions;
      (2)   Religious or charitable organizations; and
      (3)   Any person(s) engaged within the city in the business of producing
agricultural products who, individually or collectively, sell in such store
only agricultural products which he, she, or they have produced. (Prior Code, §
8-31)
§ 8-315 THEATRES AND PUBLIC SHOWS.
   The annual license fee to keep or maintain a theater, opera house, or other
permanent place for public shows shall be $20 and $10 for such place that
operates less than four days each week. (Prior Code, § 8-32)
§ 8-316 THEATRICAL PERFORMANCES.
   The annual license fee to exhibit to the public any theatrical performance,
other than one exhibited by the holder of a license under the provisions of §
8-315, shall be $5 per week or fraction of a week. This section shall not apply
to performances given by amateurs, educational institutions, or non-profit
literary, dramatic, benevolent, religious, or patriotic organizations. (Prior
Code, § 8-33)
§ 8-317 SUMMARY OF LICENSING FEES.
   So as to simplify and restate the provisions in this article, the following
fees are the maximum amount that may be charged to each business, activity, and
the like.
Business, Activity, and the Like Maximum License Fee
Business, Activity, and the Like                 Maximum License Fee
Advertising by outdoor billboards or signs       $100
Auctioneers                                      $15
Billiard, pool, or bagetelle tables              $25
Each additional table                            $15
Bowling lanes                                    $25
Each additional lane                             $15
Coin-operated merchandise, services, music,
amusement devices                                 
Baggage or parcel checking device                $0.50/section
Five-cent devices                                $5/device
More than 20 devices                             $150
One-cent devices                                 $2/device
More than 20 devices                             $50
Over ten-cent devices                            $12.50/device
More than 20 devices                             $300
Ten-cent devices                                 $10/device
More than 20 devices                             $250
Toilet locker, sanitary napkin, or bed vibrator  $0.50/device
device
Collection agencies                              $100
Employment agents                                $200
Nurses agency                                    $25
Fortune telling                                  $200
General store                                    $15/store
Hawkers and peddlers                             $100/ton
Each ton or fraction of a ton exceeding two tons $10
Traveling without a vehicle                      $15
Vehicle of not more than one-half ton            $50
Vehicle of one-half to one ton                   $150
Vehicle of up to two tons
Hotels and motels                                $2
Each bedroom in excess of seven                  $0.25/bedroom, up to two
Junk dealer                                      $25
Itinerant junk collector                         $2
Junk dealer’s agent                            $10
Non-resident junk dealer or agent                $150
Pawnbroker                                       $100
Real estate broker                               $50
Real estate salesperson                          $25
Restaurants
Each five chairs or spaces where persons are fed $0.25/five chairs, up to $10
in excess of ten
Stock broker                                     $50
Special store                                    $5/store
Theaters                                         $20
Open less than four days per week                $10
Theatrical performance                           $5/week
(Prior Code, § 8-34)   
ARTICLE 3: PROPERTY TAXES AND OTHER TAXES
Section
   
8-301   Property tax; classes of taxable property
   
8-302   Maximum property tax levy rates; excess levy
   
8-303   Preservation of prior taxing powers of cities
   
8-304   Public utilities tax
   
8-305   Amusement tax
   
8-306   Tax on purchases of intoxicating liquors in municipalities; private
club fees
   
8-307   License tax on horse racing and dog racing
   
8-308   Motor vehicle operator’s tax
   
8-309   Domestic animal tax
§ 8-301 PROPERTY TAX; CLASSES OF TAXABLE PROPERTY.
   This municipality shall have the authority to tax real and personal property
within the municipal boundaries at its true and actual value for each of the
following three classes of property:
 
Class of Property
          All tangible personal property exclusively in agriculture, including
          horticulture and grazing; all products of agriculture (including
Class I   livestock) while owned by the producer; all monies, and all notes,
          bonds, bills and accounts receivable, stocks, and any other tangible
          property.
          All property owned, used, and occupied by the owner exclusively for
Class II  residential purposes; all farms, including land used for horticulture
          and grazing, occupied and cultivated by their owners or bona fide
          tenants.
          Property that includes all real and personal property situated
Class III outside of municipalities exclusive of Classes I and II and is
          therefore not taxable by this municipality.
Class IV  All real and personal property situated inside of municipalities
          exclusive of Classes I and II.
(Prior Code, § 8-35)
§ 8-302 MAXIMUM PROPERTY TAX LEVY RATES; EXCESS LEVY.
   (A)   The maximum property tax levy rates for each property class per $100
valuation that can be assessed without requiring a vote from the electorate
are:
 
Class I Class II Class IV
12.50   0.25     0.50
 
   (B)   This municipality may impose an excess levy lasting up to three years
for a special or general purpose if such a levy is approved by at least 60% of
the votes cast in the special levy election. The maximum rates for each $100 of
assessed value are:
 
Class I Class II Class IV
6.25    12.50    0.25
 
   (C)   The Council, being of the opinion that the maximum levies for the
current expenses will not provide sufficient funds for the payment of the
current expenses of the city, including expenditures for the purposes
hereinafter set forth, and that an election should be held to increase such
levies, it is hereby ordered:
      (1)   The purpose for which additional funds are needed is as follows: To
resurface streets.
      (2)   (a)   The approximate total amount for said purpose is $21,129;
         (b)   The separate and aggregate assessed valuation of each class of
taxable property within the city, a municipality, is for the year 1973 as
follows: Class I, $463,950; Class II, $1,599; Class IV, $2,174,430; and
aggregate, $4,237,430;
         (c)   The proposed additional rate of .levy in cents on each class of
property is as follows: Class I, 6.25; Class II, 12.5; and Class IV, 0.25; and
         (d)   The proposed years to which the additional levy shall apply are
the fiscal years beginning July 1, 1974, July l, 1975, and July 1, 1976.
      (3)   The question of such additional levy shall be submitted to a vote
at a special election to be held on March 12, 1974;
      (4)   Notice calling such election shall be given by publication of this
order at least once each week for two successive weeks before said election in
the “Pennsboro News,” a newspaper of general circulation in the territory in
which the election is held. Printed copies of this order shall also be posted
at each place of voting at least ten days before said election. All the
provisions of the laws concerning general elections shall apply as far as they
are practicable, except that a separate ballot shall be used at such election
when held in connection with any other election; and
      (5)   The ballot to be used at such election shall be in form as follows:
 
“Special election to authorize additional levies for the fiscal years beginning
July 1, 1974, July 1, 1975, and July 1, 1976, and for the purpose of resurfacing
streets, according to order of the Council of the City of Pennsboro entered on
the 19th day of February 1974.
 
   The additional levy shall be on Class I Property, 6.25; on Class II Property,
12.5; on Class IV Property, 0.25.
 
For the Levies   ( )
 
Against the Levies   ( )”
 
(Prior Code, § 8-36)
§ 8-303 PRESERVATION OF PRIOR TAXING POWERS OF CITIES.
   This city may include, by Charter provision and may continue to exercise,
all powers of taxation, other than property taxation, which were set forth in
the Special Legislation Charter of this city in effect on the date of
ratification of the municipal home rule amendment. (Prior Code, § 8-37)
§ 8-304 PUBLIC UTILITIES TAX.
   (A)   This municipality shall have the power to levy and collect an excise
tax on the privilege of purchasing or using, within this municipality, public
utility services and tangible personal property from public utilities. The
purchaser shall pay to the public utilities the amount of the tax levied, not
exceeding 2% of the gross sale which shall be added to the cost, and shall be
collected by said public utility who shall give account to this municipality.
   (B)   This section for such a tax shall also include a uniform way for the
collecting of such levies and the method of payment and accountability
provided, that the tax authorized by this section shall not take place unless
said public utility is notified, in writing, 60 days in advance; provided, that
this tax shall not be imposed on coin operated phones a specific charge for
telephone calls to points outside the municipality. (Prior Code, § 8-38)
§ 8-305 AMUSEMENT TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMISSION CHARGE. Any charge for the right or the privilege to enter any
place; it shall include a charge made for season tickets or subscriptions, a
minimum service charge, a cover charge, or a charge made for the use of seats
and tables, reserved or otherwise, and similar accomodations. It shall include
charges for the rental of property or the rendering of service unless persons
not utilizing such property or services are admitted free; and if a lesser
charge is made to persons not utilizing such property or services, the lesser
charge shall constitute the admission charge. The term ADMISSION CHARGE shall
also include all parking charges where the charge is determined by the number
of passengers in an automobile.
      CITY CLERK. The collector of city taxes for the City of Pennsboro, State
of West Virginia.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation company, partnership,
association, and unincorporated association, and any person acting in a
fiduciary capacity.
      PLACE. Includes circuses, dance halls, auditoriums, stadiums, athletic
pavilions, exhibition halls, amusement parks, golf courses and golf ranges,
night clubs, cabarets, theatres of all kinds, lecture halls, archery and
shooting ranges, autoracing, movie theaters, swimming pools, bowling alleys,
skating rinks, and all kinds of places where any form of diversion, recreation,
sport, or pastime is offered or provided.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed and levied upon every person who pays an
admission charge to any place located within the limits of the city a tax of 2%
on each admission charge, except those who are admitted free of charge.
   (C)   The tax levied by this section shall not be applicable to admission
charges to be used exclusively for charitable, eleemosynary, educational, or
religious purposes, or school events.
   (D)   Every person receiving an admission charge, upon which a tax is levied
under this section, shall collect the amount of tax imposed upon the person
paying an admission charge. Said tax shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
person required to collect the same until remitted to the City Clerk as
hereinafter provided. The tax imposed under this section shall be collected at
the time the admission charge is paid.
   (E)   Every person collecting any tax imposed by this section shall, on or
before the fifteenth day of each month, file with the City Clerk a statement
upon forms provided by the City Clerk indicating the amount of taxes collected
by such person during the preceding calendar month, and such further
information as the City Clerk may deem necessary to determine the amount of the
tax collected and payable. A remittance for the amount of the tax collected
during said preceding calendar month shall accompany the statement.
   (F)   Every person required to collect a tax imposed by this section who
fails to collect the same or fails to remit the tax shall be personally liable
to the city for the amount of the tax. Any person required to collect and remit
the tax imposed by this section who fails to remit the amount of the tax when
due, in addition to all other penalties, pay a penalty of 5% of the amount due
for each month thereafter elapsing, and before payment there shall be added an
additional penalty of 5%.
   (G)   The price (exclusive of the taxes to be paid by the person paying for
admission) at which every admission ticket or card is sold shall be
conspicuously and indelibly printed, written, or stamped on the face or back of
that part of the ticket which is taken up by the management of the place to
which admission is granted.
   (H)   Every person paying an admission charge to a temporary or transient
place, as defined in division (A) above, shall also be subject to the tax
levied by this section, and every person operating or conducting such a
temporary or transient place shall collect and remit such tax as hereinafter
provided.
   (I)   Prior to conducting such a temporary or transient place, a permit
shall first be obtained from the City Clerk. Every person conducting such
temporary or transient place shall file a statement and remittance covering the
taxes collected on the day following the conclusion of operations, or at such
reasonable time or times as the City Clerk shall determine; provided, however,
that before a permit shall be issued under this section, the applicant for the
same shall deposit with the City Clerk a sum of money, or bond in lieu thereof,
conditioned upon the faithful compliance with the provisions of this section in
an amount to be determined by the City Clerk as sufficient to cover the amounts
which shall become due and owing the city upon the conclusion of temporary or
transient operations.
   (J)   If any person required to collect and remit the tax imposed by this
section fails to file a statement and a remittance, or if the City Clerk has
reasonable cause to believe that an erroneous statement has been filed, the
City Clerk may proceed to determine the amount due to the city, and in
connection therewith shall make investigations and take such testimony and
other evidence as may be necessary; provided, however, that notice and
opportunity to be heard be given any person who may become liable for the
amount owing prior to any determination by the City Clerk.
   (K)   The City Clerk shall have power to adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this section for the purpose of carrying
out and enforcing the payment, collection, and remittance of the tax herein
levied; and a copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file and available
for public examination in the City Clerk’s office. Failure or refusal to comply
with any rules and regulations promulgated under this section shall be deemed a
violation of this section.
   (L)   Every person who willfully violates any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
liable to a fine or penalty of not less than $50 nor more than $200, or by
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed ten days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment for each offense. (Prior Code, § 8-39)
§ 8-306 TAX ON PURCHASES OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS IN MUNICIPALITIES; PRIVATE
CLUB FEES.
   (A)   This municipality shall have the power to levy and collect a tax upon
the purchases of intoxicating liquors from the Alcohol Beverage Control
Commission within such municipality. Provided, that this municipality shall not
levy or collect any tax on the intoxicating liquors sold by or purchased from
holders of a license. This tax shall be levied upon the purchaser and shall be
added to, and collected with, the price of purchase. The tax shall not exceed
3% of the purchase price.
   (B)   A copy of this section, to impose such a tax sale, must be certified
by the Mayor and sent to the State Alcohol Beverage Control Commission, who
shall collect all taxes and redistribute them back to this municipality at a
quarterly rate.
   (C)   This municipality also has the power to tax private clubs within the
city limits. The maximum tax for each club is: non-profit social clubs, $375;
private clubs, with less than 1,000 members $500; and private clubs, and more
than 1,000 members, $1,250. (Prior Code, § 8-40)
§ 8-307 LICENSE TAX ON HORSE RACING AND DOG RACING.
   (A)   This municipality shall have the power to impose a daily tax on any
horse or dog racing track within the city limits.
   (B)   Such tax shall not exceed that which is imposed by the state for the
daily operation of said track.
   (C)   Such tax shall not be applicable to any affair in which horse or dog
racing is conducted for not more than six days. (Prior Code, § 8-41)
§ 8-308 MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR’S TAX.
   This municipality shall have the power to levy and collect an annual motor
vehicle operator’s license tax not to exceed $2. This tax shall only apply to
inhabitants of this municipality. (Prior Code, § 8-42)
§ 8-309 DOMESTIC ANIMAL TAX.
   This municipality shall have the power to levy and collect an annual license
tax upon the privilege of keeping a domestic animal within the corporate limits
of this municipality. (Prior Code, § 8-43)
ARTICLE 4: BUDGETING
Section
   
8-401   Budget meeting by Municipal Council
   
8-402   Submission of levy estimate to State Tax Commission
   
8-403   Publication of levy estimate
   
8-404   Audit and review by Tax Commissioner
   
8-405   Laying the levy
   
8-406   Revisions of levy estimate during the fiscal year
   
8-407   General revenue sharing planned use report
   
8-408   Coal severance tax; budgeting
§ 8-401 BUDGET MEETING BY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL.
   (A)   No later than between March 7 and March 28 of each year, this
Municipal Council shall meet to construct the municipal budget (levy estimate)
for the next fiscal year.
   (B)   During this period, this Municipal Council shall identify its
projected revenues and expenditures for the coming year, and prepare the levy
estimate on the forms and in accordance with the system of accounts required by
the State Tax Commissioner. (Prior Code, § 8-44)
§ 8-402 SUBMISSION OF LEVY ESTIMATE TO STATE TAX COMMISSION.
   No later than March 29, this Municipal Council must mail or deliver two
copies of the completed budget (levy estimate) to the State Tax Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-45)
§ 8-403 PUBLICATION OF LEVY ESTIMATE.
   (A)   On or before March 29, the municipality shall begin publication of the
levy estimate. It shall be published once a week for two successive weeks in
two newspapers of general circulation and of opposite politics published in the
area.
   (B)   If there is only one such newspaper, it shall be published in that
one. If there is no such newspaper, the levy estimate shall be published in the
most widely read newspaper in the municipality. (Prior Code, § 8-46)
§ 8-404 AUDIT AND REVIEW BY TAX COMMISSIONER.
   The Tax Commissioner will audit and review the levy estimate prior to the
third Tuesday in April. The Commissioner will notify the Municipal Council by
letter of the results of his or her audit, and review and request for any
change. (Prior Code, § 8-47)
§ 8-405 LAYING THE LEVY.
   This Municipal Council shall meet on the third Tuesday in April to
officially lay the levy. This entails the hearing of objectives and the
adopting of the levy rates to be used during the next fiscal year. (Prior Code,
§ 8-48)
§ 8-406 REVISIONS OF LEVY ESTIMATE DURING THE FISCAL YEAR.
   Changes in the municipal budget which result in a change in the balance of
any department or unclassified line item, or a change in the amount of revenue
from any source, shall be submitted in letter form to the Tax Commissioner for
his or her written approval. (Prior Code, § 8-49)
§ 8-407 GENERAL REVENUE SHARING PLANNED USE REPORT.
   As a supplement to the levy estimate, this municipality shall submit to the
State Tax Commissioner a planned use report for funds to be received from
general revenue sharing. This report shall be submitted on the forms and in
accordance with the system of accounts provided by the State Tax Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-50)
§ 8-408 COAL SEVERANCE TAX; BUDGETING.
   (A)   This municipality shall create a Coal Severance Tax Revenue Fund,
which shall be the depository for monies distributed to this municipality under
the provisions of the State Code. Monies in such Coal Severance Tax Revenue
Funds may be expended by the governing body of this municipality for such
public purposes as the governing body shall determine to be in the best
interest of the people of its municipality; provided, however, that said Coal
Severance Tax Revenue Fund monies shall not be budgeted for personal services
in an amount to exceed one-fourth of the total funds available in such fund.
   (B)   The coal severance tax estimate shall be made on the forms provided by
the State Tax Department, and shall be submitted to the State Tax Department by
June 15 of each year. (Prior Code, § 8-51)
ARTICLE 5: ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING
Section
   
8-501   Reports, and the like, to conform to fiscal year
   
8-502   Audits and accounts
   
8-503   Capital Reserve Fund
   
8-504   Special account for federal and state grants-in-aid authorized
   
8-505   Sinking funds
   
8-506   Payment of money out of municipal treasury; penalty
   
8-507   Investment of municipal funds
   
8-508   How and by whom system of accounting for local offices prescribed
   
8-509   Separate accounts for different appropriations of funds, department
undertakings, and the like; transfer of unexpended balances
   
8-510   Management accounting
   
8-511   Borrowing power
   
8-512   Special charge for municipal services
   
8-513   Preparation, publication, disposition of financial statements
§ 8-501 REPORTS, AND THE LIKE, TO CONFORM TO FISCAL YEAR.
   All reports, settlements, accounts, and statements of municipalities which
are now, or which may hereafter be, required by law shall be kept and made to
conform to the fiscal year. (Prior Code, § 8-52)
§ 8-502 AUDITS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Tax Commissioner shall be the chief inspector of all audits of the city,
however, this municipality has the right that it may, by ordinance, make a
system for budgeting, accounting, and record keeping, and for the conduct of
the transactions of this municipality. (Prior Code, § 8-53)
§ 8-503 CAPITAL RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   This municipality shall have the power to establish a special fund
known as the Capital Reserve Fund. The Fund shall consist of unexpended
balances and other funds which may be transferred to the Reserve Fund with the
approval of the State Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   This Fund shall be used to purchase or improve public or municipal
works. Expenditures shall be made from the Fund only in accordance with an
appropriation made pursuant to the annual budget.
   (C)   If this municipality accumulates its Capital Reserve Fund for more
than two years, it shall be transmitted to the State Sinking Fund Commission on
or before September 1 of each year. The proceeds can be withdrawn from this
Fund upon reasonable notice, in writing, to the State Sinking Fund Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-54)
§ 8-504 SPECIAL ACCOUNT FOR FEDERAL AND STATE GRANTS-IN-AID AUTHORIZED.
   In addition to the special fund account authorized by the provisions in § 8-
503, the governing body of this municipality shall have plenary power and
authority to establish a special account for the deposit of funds received
from, and granted by, the United States of America or the state, and shall
provide for the expenditure and appropriation of such funds in accordance with
the applicable laws and regulations promulgated by the government authority
making such grants. The funds so received and held in such special account
shall not be considered as revenue in determining the amount of real and
personal property takes to be levied for the regular fiscal budget of this
municipality. (Prior Code, § 8-55)
§ 8-505 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   This municipality shall have the power and authority to transfer to
the general funds of this municipality as follows:
      (1)   Any unexpended balances used to pay the interest or principal of
any municipal bonds that were left over after the bonds were paid off for,
provided in division (C) below, to fully pay and discharge such bonded
indebtedness; and
      (2)   Any balance remaining in any fund levied and collected under
authority of any special levy election.
   (B)   The State Sinking Fund Commission is authorized to remit to this
municipality when the issuances of bonds had been made, to be credited to the
General Fund of this municipality, any balances of funds remaining under the
supervision and control of the State Sinking Fund Commission when the bonded
indebtedness for the payment of which such funds were raised and paid to the
State Sinking Fund Commission has been fully paid and discharged, or when
provision has been made, as herein after provided in division (C) below, to
fully pay and discharge such bonded indebtedness.
   (C)   (1)   All outstanding bonds of any series shall, prior to the maturity
date thereof, be deemed to have been fully paid and discharged within the
meaning and with the effect expressed in divisions (A) and (B) above when there
shall have been deposited with the Sinking Fund Commission:
         (a)   Either monies in amount which shall be sufficient; or
         (b)   Securities put into the sinking fund which will be invested by
the State Sinking Fund Commission so that the monies along the interest can be
applied to the paying of the bill.
      (2)   The Sinking Fund Commission shall take all funds not needed for
payment of the interest on the city bond and invest at a date which will mature
on the same day as the bonds so the funds can be used for the payment of the
bonds. All interest collected from the investment of the funds, or left over
after all bonds are paid for, shall be returned back to this municipality.
      (3)   In any case when monies are returned from the sinking funds to this
municipality, they are not to be spent for the payment of current municipal
funds but as the governing body shall elect for the liquidating of existing
non-bonded indebtedness, if any, of this municipality, or for existing or
planned capital improvements of such municipality, or for the liquidation of
other bonded indebtedness of this municipality, or for any combination of such
use. (Prior Code, § 8-56)
§ 8-506 PAYMENT OF MONEY OUT OF MUNICIPAL TREASURY; PENALTY.
   (A)   No money shall be paid out of the treasury, except upon the order of
the Mayor, Treasurer, or Municipal Recorder which has been duly signed;
provided, that such signature may be made by any mechanical or electrical
device that the governing body may choose. Such machine shall be kept in the
office of the Recorder or Treasurer for safe keeping.
   (B)   If any of the above officers should allow someone to make, or if they
themselves should make, an unauthorized signing, then they shall be liable
jointly or severally for the amount of any loss resulting to the municipality.
   (C)   If any individual, other than the individuals authorized to do so,
shall sign the name of any municipal officer authorized to sign such order by
the use of any such mechanical or electrical device, or otherwise, upon any
warrant, order, or check, he or she shall be guilty of forgery, and if any
individual shall utter or attempt to employ as true such forged warrant, order,
or check, knowing the same to be forged, he or she shall be guilty of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 8-57)
§ 8-507 INVESTMENT OF MUNICIPAL FUNDS.
   All municipal funds, the investment of which is not governed by other
provisions of this article and not required for the payment of current
obligations, may be invested by the Treasurer or Recorder in the following
classes of securities and accounts, and not otherwise; which securities and
accounts mature on such dates as will make available such amount of cash as is
required:
   (A)   Certificates or other obligations of the United States in which the
faith and credit of the United States is pledged;
   (B)   Certificates of deposit secured by:
      (1)   Obligations of the United States of America;
      (2)   General obligations of revenue bonds of the state;
      (3)   General obligation bonds of other states;
      (4)   General obligation bonds of any county or any County Board of
Education; or
      (5)   General obligation bonds of any municipality of this state.
   (C)   (1)   Interest bearing savings accounts, which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or a savings and loan association insured
by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Building and Loan
Association, which are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation; provided, that the amount invested is not more than would be
insured unless the banking institution or savings and loan association would
place a bond on the money.
      (2)   The security of the bonds is to be determined by the City Treasurer
or Recorder. (Prior Code, § 8-58)
§ 8-508 HOW AND BY WHOM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTING FOR LOCAL OFFICES PRESCRIBED.
   The system of keeping accounts by the Recorder shall be done in the
following matter. All accounts shall show the receipt, use, and disposition of
all public property under the municipalities control and the income (if any)
derived from them, and all sources of such public income, and the amounts due
and received from each source, all receipts vouchers and other documents kept
and necessary to identify and prove the validity of every transaction, and all
statements and reports made, or required to be made, for the internal
administration of the office to which they pertain, and all reports published,
or thet may be required to be published, for the information of the people
regarding any and all details of the financial administration of such public
affairs. (Prior Code, § 8-59)
§ 8-509 SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR DIFFERENT APPROPRIATIONS OF FUNDS, DEPARTMENT
UNDERTAKINGS, AND THE LIKE; TRANSFER OF UNEXPENDED BALANCES.
   Separate accounts shall be kept for every appropriation of funds made by
this municipality, showing the date and manner of each payment made out of the
funds provided by such appropriation or levy, the name, address, and vocation
of each person, organization, corporation, or association to whom paid, and for
what purpose paid. Separate accounts shall be kept for each department, public
improvement, undertaking institution, and public service industry under the
jurisdiction of every city agency; and all service rendered by property
transferred from one department, public improvement, undertaking institution,
or public service industry to another shall be paid for at its true and full
value by the department, public improvement, undertaking institution, or public
service industry receiving the same,and no department, public improvement,
undertaking institution, or public service industry shall benefit in any
financial manner whatever by an appropriation or fund made for the support of
another department, public improvement, undertaking institution, or public
service industry. All unexpended balances or appropriations shall be
transferred to the credit of the fund from which they originally appropriated,
or levied whenever the account with an appropriation is closed. (Prior Code, §
8-60)
§ 8-510 MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The Municipal Council may formulate its own requirements for a system
of management accounting for the planning, management, reporting, and control
of city expenditures. The requirements may include methods for recording the
collection of all revenues, amounts available for expenditure, encumbrances,
and expenditures for all funds and its own internal system of accounts.
   (B)   The expenditures and encumbrances of a spending unit shall not exceed
the approved appropriation of the fiscal year unless a budget amendment has
been authorized by the Municipal Council and approved by the State Tax
Department. (Prior Code, § 8-61)
§ 8-511 BORROWING POWER.
   This municipality shall have plenary power and authority to borrow money on
the general faith and credit of the municipality for any municipal purpose, in
the manner and subject to the limitations provided by law for the issuance of
general obligation bonds. (Prior Code, § 8-62)
§ 8-512 SPECIAL CHARGE FOR MUNICIPAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The special services of street lighting, street cleaning, and police
and fire protection within the city shall be continued, maintained, and
improved, in part, at the charge and expense of the users thereof, as herein
provided, so long as this section remains in effect.
   (B)   The users of said special services of street lighting, street
cleaning, and police and fire protection are hereby declared to be the
occupants, whether tenants or owners of all residential premises (which shall
include houses, apartments, and trailers), boarding houses, rooming houses,
hotels, business houses, business establishments, business premises, commercial
buildings, hospitals, nursing homes, restaurants, business and professional
offices, bakeries, processing and manufacturing plants, factories, and all
other similarly occupied premises within the city, and such special services
shall be continued, maintained, and improved for such users.
   (C)   For the continuance, maintenance, and improvement of the said special
services of street lighting, street cleaning, and police and fire protection by
the city there is hereby imposed upon the users thereof, that is to say: each
residential premises (which shall include house, apartments, and trailers),
boarding houses, rooming house, hotels, business houses, business
establishments, business premises, commercial buildings, hospitals, nursing
homes, restaurants, business and professional offices, bakeries, processing and
manufacturing plants, factories, and similar premises, from and after the first
day of February, 1977, an annual fee or charge of $8, payable in amount of $1
each on the first day of March, May, June, August, September, November,
December of 1977, and February 1, 1978.
   (D)   If such fee or charge, as aforesaid in division (C) above, is not paid
within 15 days following the date upon which the same is due and payable, a
penalty of 5% shall be added thereto and collected from the user.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall prepare an alphabetical list showing the name/
nature of all the users of such special services, with their respective
addresses, against such fee or for such special services shall be and is
charged, which said list shall be file in the office of the City Clerk and open
for public inspection.
   (F)   Statements of the fees or charges, in the amount herein provided in
division (C) above, shall be rendered by the City Clerk in connection and
conjunction with the statement for other services for which a special charge is
made. Such fees or charges shall be paid to the City Clerk at the offices of
the Clerk in the city building by all users of such special services, and the
failure of any such user to receive a statement of such or charge shall in no
manner impair or affect the validity of the said charge or the right to collect
the same.
   (G)   Any person feeling aggrieved by the imposition of a charge hereunder
may protest the same in writing filed with the City Clerk, and shall have the
right to be heard thereon in person or by agent or attorney before the City
Council. If the Council finds the said charge to be erroneous or improper, it
shall correct or annul the same as the circumstances may require.
   (H)   The said city, acting by and through its proper officials, may proceed
in active suit, attachment, or any other appropriate remedy provided by law, to
collect the charges, fees, and penalties herein provided in the event of
delinquency in the payment thereof by the user.
   (I)   All funds and income derived under and by virtue of this section shall
be segregated and used exclusively for the continuance, maintenance, and
improvement of the services of street lighting, street cleaning, and police and
fire protection within the city. (Prior Code, § 8-63)
§ 8-513 PREPARATION, PUBLICATION, DISPOSITION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   This municipality shall prepare in a format prescribed by the State Tax
Commissioner a financial statement revealing:
   (A)   The receipts and expenditures of the city during the previous fiscal
year arranged under descriptive headings; and
   (B)   The name of anyone who received more than $50 from any fund during the
year, how much he or she was paid, and for what purpose. (Prior Code, § 8-64),
Sanitation, Offenses, General, and Miscellaneous
CHAPTER 9: NUISANCES, SANITATION, OFFENSES, GENERAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS
   Article
      
0.   IN GENERAL
      
1.   CRIMES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
2.   CRIMES AGAINST THE PERSON
      
3.   CRIMES AGAINST PEACE AND DECENCY
      
4.   FRAUD AND DECEIT
      
5.   NUISANCES
      
6.   SANITATION
      
7.   PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 0: IN GENERAL
Section
   
9-1   Abandoned refrigerators and other airtight appliances
   
9-2   Possession of marijuana
   
9-3   Judge may dismiss proceedings
   
9-4   Breathing, inhaling, or drinking certain intoxicating compounds
   
9-5   Sale of dextromethorphan
   
9-6   Reserved
   
9-7   Reserved
   
9-8   Reserved
   
9-9   Reserved
   
9-10   Curfew for minors
   
9-11   Same; liability of parent or guardian
   
9-12   Same; taking children into custody; report; record; liability of parent;
and the like, upon second offense
   
9-13   Contributing to delinquency or neglect of child
   
9-14   Parental liability for acts of children
   
9-15   Blasting
   
9-16   Tobacco usage restrictions
   
9-17   Penalty
   
9-18   Chapter is supplement to other provisions
   
9-19   Provisions severable
   
9-20   Not exclusive
   
9-21   City’s cost declared a lien
   
9-22   No duty to enforce
   
9-23   Abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, and abandoned or
inoperative household appliances
   
9-24   Weapons
   
9-25   Same; discharge of
   
9-26   Indecent conduct; nudity, exposure of person, and the like generally
   
9-27   Same; marking of indecent words, pictures, and the like, at places
exposed to public view
   
9-28   Throwing missiles in streets or public places
   
9-29   Adoption of state criminal offenses
   
9-30   Municipality public uses, facility use, hours of operation, penalties
§ 9-1 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER AIRTIGHT APPLIANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, discard, or knowingly
permit to remain on premises under such person’s control, in a place accessible
to children, any refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight container
which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an opening of
50 square inches or more, and which has a door or lid equipped with a hinge,
latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without
rendering such equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches, or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator, or other
airtight or semi-airtight container located in that part of a building occupied
by a dealer, warehouse operator, or repair person.
   (C)   The imposition of any penalty for a violation of this section shall
not excuse the violation or excuse the violator from complying with the
provisions of this section. Each day that such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. The application of any applicable city ordinance
provision shall not preclude the removal of the prohibited conditions, and the
city shall have the right, in addition to any city ordinance or state code
provisions, to enforce the provision of this section by use of any other legal
remedy or court order. (Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 9-2 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally possess an amount of marijuana,
less than 15 grams in weight, unless the marijuana was obtained directly from,
or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a licensed medical
practitioner while acting in the course of his or her professional practice.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
§ 9-3 JUDGE MAY DISMISS PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Whenever any person who has not previously been convicted of any
offense under the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, to wit, W. Va. Code Ch.
60A, or under any statute of the United States or any state relating to
narcotic drugs, marijuana, or stimulants, depressants, or hallucinogenic drugs
pleads guilty to, or is found guilty of, possession of any amount of marijuana
weighing less than 15 grams in violation of division (A)(1) below, the
Municipal Judge may discharge the person and dismiss proceedings against him
after any fine or jail sentence imposed hereunder has been paid or served. The
Municipal Judge, in determining whether or not to discharge the defendant and
to dismiss the proceedings against him or her, shall take into account the
following factors:
      (1)   The attitude of the defendant toward the offense mentioned herein;
and
      (2)   Whether or not the defendant has sought professional counseling in
relation to the possession of marijuana, as well as the nature and extent of
such counseling and the defendant’s response to such counseling; provided, that
the defendant has been advised of the availability of such counseling and has
had at least 30 days’ time thereafter to begin participation in such
counseling.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to
possess a controlled substance, specifically a drug, substance, or immediate
precursor in Schedules I through V as set forth in W. Va. Code §§ 60A-2-204,
60A-2-206, 60A-2-208, 60A-2-210, and 60A-2-212 (W. Va. Code §§ 60A-2-204 et
seq.), unless the substance was obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a valid
prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in the course of his or
her professional practice, or except as otherwise authorized.
      (2)   Discharge and dismissal under this section shall be without
adjudication of guilt, and is not a conviction for purposes of this section or
for purposes of disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon
conviction of a crime. The effect of such dismissal and discharge shall be to
restore such person in contemplation of law to the status he or she occupied
prior to such arrest and trial. No person as to whom such dismissal and
discharge have been affected shall be thereafter held to be guilty of perjury,
false swearing, or otherwise giving a false statement by reason of his or her
failure to disclose or acknowledge such arrest or trial in response to any
inquiry made of him or her for any purpose. (Prior Code, § 9-3)
§ 9-4 BREATHING, INHALING, OR DRINKING CERTAIN INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally breathe, inhale, or drink any
compound, liquid, or chemical containing acetone, amylacetate, benzol or
benzene, butyl acetate, butyl alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform,
cyclohexanone, ethanol or ethyl alcohol, ethyl acetate, hexane, isopropanol or
isopropyl alcohol, isopropyl acetate, methyl “cellosolve” acetate, methyl ethyl
ketene, methyl isobutyl ketene, toluol or toluene, trichloroethylene, tricresyl
phosphate, xylol or xylene, or any other solvent, material substance, chemical,
or combination thereof, having the property or releasing toxic vapors for the
purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis, or irrational behavior, or in any manner changing,
distorting, or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental processes.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, any condition so induced shall be
deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who commits any act described herein pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to so
direct or prescribe, including the inhalation of anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes; or
      (2)   To any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer, as defined in W.
Va. Code § 60-1-5.(W. Va. Code § 61-8-11) (Prior Code, § 9-4)
§ 9-5 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section, FINISHED DRUG PRODUCT means a drug legally
marketed under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 321 et
seq.) that is in finished dosage form.
   (B)   A person may not knowingly or willfully sell or trade a finished drug
product containing any quantity of dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years
of age.
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age, unless an emancipated minor, may not
purchase a finished drug product containing any quantity of dextromethorphan.
   (D)   A person making a retail sale of a finished drug product containing
any quantity of dextromethorphan shall require and obtain proof of age from the
purchaser before completing the sale, unless, from the purchaser’s outward
appearance, the person making the sale would reasonably presume the purchaser
to be at least 25 years of age.
   (E)   This section does not apply to a medication containing
dextromethorphan that is sold pursuant to a valid prescription.(W. Va. Code §
60A-4-417)
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250. (Prior
Code, § 9-5)
§ 9-6 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]   (Prior Code, § 9-6)
§ 9-7 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]   (Prior Code, § 9-7)
§ 9-8 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]   (Prior Code, § 9-8)
§ 9-9 RESERVED.
   [Reserved]   (Prior Code, § 9-9)
§ 9-10 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Curfew hours; delinquent child. No minor under the age of 18 years
shall loiter, idle, wander, or play in or upon the streets, parks, playgrounds,
wharves, docks, or other public grounds, public places and public buildings,
places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised
places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day. Any
minor violating this division (A) shall be deemed a delinquent child under the
provisions of the state law, and shall be dealt with as such under the
provisions of state law.
   (B)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. No parent, guardian, or other
adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years
shall knowingly permit such minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in
or upon the public streets, parks, playgrounds, wharves, docks, or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (C)    Defense to prosecution. It is a defense to a prosecution under this
section that the person under 18 years of age was:
      (1)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian, or
an adult designated by the minor’s parent or guardian, without any detour or
stop;
      (2)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (3)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (4)   Involved in an emergency. In this division (C)(4), EMERGENCY means
an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state that calls
for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a
natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate
action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life;
      (5)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (6)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (7)   Married or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with law. (Prior Code, § 9-10)
§ 9-11 SAME; LIABILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having the
legal custody of any child above designated in §
9-10 to allow or permit any such child who is in such legal custody to loiter
in or upon streets, highways, or other public places within the corporate
limits of the city after 10:00 p.m. (Prior Code, § 9-11)
§ 9-12 SAME; TAKING CHILDREN INTO CUSTODY; REPORT; RECORD; LIABILITY OF PARENT;
AND THE LIKE, UPON SECOND OFFENSE.
   (A)   Any child found loitering in or upon any streets, highways, or other
public places within the corporate limits of the city shall be taken into
custody by the city police officers and delivered to such child’s parent,
guardian, or person having the legal custody of such child, and a report
thereof made to the Chief of Police, who shall make a record thereof in a book
kept for that purpose.
   (B)   If the parent, guardian, or person having the legal custody of such
child shall allow such child to loiter upon the streets, highways, or public
places in violation of this code for more than two times, such parent,
guardian, and person having legal custody of the child so offending shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided for in this chapter, as well as the
costs of prosecution. (Prior Code, § 9-12)
§ 9-13 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OR NEGLECT OF CHILD.
   No person shall, by any act or omission, contribute to, encourage, or tend
to cause the delinquency or neglect of any child, including, but not limited
to, aiding or encouraging any such child to habitually or continually refuse to
respond, without just cause, to the lawful supervision of such child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian, or to be habitually absent from school without just
cause.(W. Va. Code § 61-8D-10) (Prior Code, § 9-13)
§ 9-14 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (A)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether the property be real, personal, or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing, and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT OR PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
   (C)    Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall include,
but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county
commission, and Board of Education, or other political subdivision of this
state, or any person or organization of any kind or character. The action may
be brought in magistrate or another court of competent jurisdiction. Recovery
hereunder shall be limited to the actual damages, based upon direct out-of-
pocket loss, taxable court costs, and interest from date of judgment. The right
of action and remedy granted herein shall be in addition to, and not exclusive
of, any rights of action and remedies therefor against a parent or parents for
the tortuous acts of his, her, or their children heretofore existing under the
provisions of any law, statutory or otherwise, or now so existing independently
of the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2) (Prior Code, § 9-14)
§ 9-15 BLASTING.
   If any contractor, worker, or other person blasts rock with powder,
dynamite, or other explosives, and throws by the force of such blast any rocks
or fragments of rocks upon any street, sidewalk, or alley of the city so as to
endanger life or safety of any person in or upon such sidewalk or alley, such
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-15)
§ 9-16 TOBACCO USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Sale or gift of tobacco to persons under 18 years of age.
      (1)   No person or business entity may sell, give, or furnish, or cause
to be sold, given, or furnished, to any person under the age of 18 years:
         (a)   Any cigarette, cigarette paper, or any other paper prepared,
manufactured, or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco or tobacco
product; or
         (b)   Any cigar, pipe, snuff, chewing tobacco, or tobacco product in
any form.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $150
for the first offense, and for each subsequent offense, not less than $100 or
more than $500.
   (B)   Possession of tobacco or tobacco products by persons under the age of
18 years; penalty. No person under the age of 18 years shall have on or about
his or her person or premises for use any cigarette, cigarette paper, or any
other paper prepared, manufactured or made for the purpose of smoking any
tobacco products, in any form; or any pipe, snuff, chewing tobacco, or tobacco
product. Any person violating the provisions of this division (B) is punishable
by a fine not less than $5 nor more than $75, plus court costs.
   (C)   Use of tobacco products in public schools prohibited; penalty. Every
person who shall smoke a cigarette or cigarettes, pipe, cigar, or other
implement, of any type or nature, designed, used, or employed for smoking any
tobacco or tobacco product; or who shall use any tobacco product, whether
chewing tobacco, snuff, or otherwise, in any building or part thereof used for
instructional purposes, in any school of this state, as defined in W. Va. Code
§ 18-1-1, or on any lot or grounds actually used for instructional purposes of
any such school of this state while such school is used or occupied for school
purposes, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $5, plus court
costs, or eight hours of community service. For each subsequent offense, a fine
of $5, plus court costs.
   (D)   Use of tobacco products in public designated non-smoking or tobacco
free areas. Every person who shall smoke a cigarette or cigarettes, pipe,
cigar, or other implement, of any type or nature, designed, used, or employed
for smoking any tobacco or tobacco product; or who shall use any tobacco
product, whether chewing tobacco, snuff, or otherwise, in any building or part
thereof, or on any lot or grounds designated as a non-smoking or tobacco-free
area, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $250, plus court
costs. For each subsequent offense, it shall be a fine of not less that $100
and up to $500, plus court costs.
(Prior Code, § 9-16)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-17 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for, the
violation thereof shall be a fine not exceeding $1,000. Each day any such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-17)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-18 CHAPTER IS SUPPLEMENT TO OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Various provisions are described in other ordinances, and it is the intent
of the Council in enacting this chapter to make it supplemental to those other
ordinances in which nuisances and crimes are defined and prohibited; and the
provisions of this chapter relating to the abatement of nuisances and the
violations of state law shall be regarded as alternative methods.
(Prior Code, § 9-18)
§ 9-19 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered severable, and should any
section or part thereof be held unconstitutional or for any reason
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unaffected portion
shall remain valid and shall be given full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 9-19)
§ 9-20 NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The nuisance, health, and sanitation described in this chapter shall not be
construed as exclusive, and any act, commission, or omission, and any condition
which constitutes a nuisance by statute or the code of the state as last
amended, when committed, omitted, or existing within the municipality or within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the municipality, is hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-20)
§ 9-21 CITY’S COST DECLARED A LIEN.
   (A)   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a nuisance
under the provisions of this chapter and/or enforcement of the same will
constitute a lien against the property upon which such nuisance existed, which
lien will be filed, proven, and collected as provided for by law.
   (B)   Such lien will be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording, and will bear interest at the legal rate thereafter until satisfied.
Payment thereof may be enforced as other liens are enforced under the laws of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-21)
§ 9-22 NO DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the city to enforce
the prohibitions in this chapter against all or any properties which may
violate the chapter. In the city’s prosecutorial discretion, and as the city’s
resources permit, this chapter may be enforced only as to a limited number of
problem properties per year. Nothing in this chapter, or the absence of any
similar provisions from any other city law, shall be construed to impose a duty
upon the city to enforce such other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 9-22)
§ 9-23 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES, JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES, AND ABANDONED OR
INOPERATIVE HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that qualifies as both an
abandoned motor vehicle and an antique motor vehicle.
      ABANDONED HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE. A refrigerator, freezer, range, stove,
automatic dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, trash compactor,
television set, radio, air conditioning unit, commode, bed springs, mattress,
or other furniture, fixtures, or appliances to which no person claims ownership
and which is not in an enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard, or the
actual possession of a demolisher.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which
is inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property for any period
over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed salvage
yard, or at the business establishment of a demolisher; or any motor vehicle,
or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without consent
of the owner or person in control of the property for any period over five
days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is unattended,
discarded, deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed building, a
licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher; provided, that
a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, is not an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE if:
         (a)   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
         (c)   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor vehicle
being stored; and
         (d)   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the state and
not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles, or parts thereof, for
sale.
      ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that was manufactured more than 25 years
before the current date.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Division of Highways, or his or her
designee.
      DEMOLISHER. Any person licensed by the Commissioner of the Division of
Highways whose business, to any extent or degree, is to convert a motor
vehicle, or any part thereof, or an inoperative household appliance into
processed scrap or scrap metal, or into saleable parts or otherwise to wreck or
dismantle vehicles or appliances.
      DIVISION. The State Division of Motor Vehicles.
      ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure, and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
      ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Any of the following or any combination of the
following:
         (a)   Public law enforcement officers of this state, including natural
resources police officers;
         (b)   Public law enforcement officers of any county, city, or town
within this state; and
         (c)   The Commissioner of the Division of Highways, and his or her
duly authorized agents and employees.
      INOPERATIVE HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE. A refrigerator, freezer, range, stove,
automatic dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, trash compactor,
television set, radio, air conditioning unit, commode, bed springs, mattress,
or other furniture, fixture, or appliance which, by reason of mechanical or
physical defects can no longer be used for its intended purpose, and which is
either not serving a functional purpose or use or is not in an enclosed
building, a licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher.
      JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, or any part thereof, which:
         (a)   Is discarded, wrecked, ruined, scrapped, or dismantled;
         (b)   Cannot pass the state inspection required by W. Va. Code § 17C-
16; and
         (c)   Is either not serving a functional purpose or use, or is not in
an enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a
demolisher; provided, that a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, is not a
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE if:
            1.   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
            2.   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
            3.   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor
vehicle being stored; and
            4.   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the state
and not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles, or parts thereof,
for sale.
      LICENSED SALVAGE YARD. A salvage yard licensed under W. Va. Code § 17-23.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, and motorcycles.
      PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, or
society and the plural as well as the singular.
      VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER. A unique number or mark placed on a
vehicle, or part thereof, by the manufacturer so as to identify it particularly
and distinguish the vehicle or part from all other such vehicles or parts.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-1)
   (B)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited; inoperative household
appliances prohibited in certain places; penalty.
      (1)   (a)   No person may, within this state, abandon a motor vehicle, or
major part thereof, upon the right-of-way of any public highway, upon any other
public property, or upon any private property without the consent of the owner
or person in control of the property, or upon property owned or controlled by
that person, unless it be at a licensed salvage yard or at the business
establishment of a demolisher, or a business licensed to do business in the
state and not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles, or parts
thereof, for sale.
         (b)   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced and fined as
set forth in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   (a)   No person may, within this state, place or abandon any
inoperative household appliance upon the right-of-way of any public highway or
upon any other public property; nor may any person, within this state, place or
abandon any inoperative household appliance upon any private property unless it
be at a licensed salvage yard, solid waste facility, other business authorized
to accept solid waste, or at the business establishment of a demolisher.
         (b)   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced and fined as
set forth in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   (a)   Any person who is guilty of a misdemeanor, as described in
this section, and the abandoned motor vehicle, junked motor vehicle, or
inoperative household appliance does not exceed 100 pounds in weight or 27
cubic feet in size, is subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$1,000 or, in the discretion of the court, sentenced to perform community
service by cleaning up litter from any public highway, road, street, alley, or
any other public park or public property, or waters of the state, as designated
by the court, for not less than eight nor more than 16 hours, or both.
         (b)   Any person who is guilty of a misdemeanor, as described in this
section, and the abandoned motor vehicle, junked motor vehicle, or inoperative
household appliance is greater than 100 pounds in weight or 27 cubic feet in
size, but less than 500 pounds in weight or 216 cubic feet, is subject to a
fine of not less than $500 nor more than $2,000 or, in the discretion of the
court, may be sentenced to perform community service by cleaning up litter from
any public highway, road, street, alley, or any other public park or public
property, or waters of the state, as designated by the court, for not less than
16 nor more than 32 hours, or both.
         (c)   Any person who is guilty of a misdemeanor, as described in this
section, and the abandoned motor vehicle, junked motor vehicle, or inoperative
household appliance is greater than 500 pounds in weight or 216 cubic feet in
size, is subject to a fine not less than $2,500 or not more than $25,000. In
addition, the violator may be guilty of creating or contributing to an open
dump as defined in W. Va. Code § 22-15-2 and subject to the enforcement
provisions of W. Va. Code § 22-15-15.
         (d)   Any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of this
section is subject to double the authorized range of fines and community
service for the division violated.
         (e)   The sentence of litter cleanup shall be verified by natural
resources police officers from the Division of Natural Resources, or
environmental inspectors from the Department of Environmental Protection. Any
defendant receiving the sentence of litter cleanup shall provide, within a time
to be set by the court, written acknowledgment from a natural resources police
officer or environmental inspector that the sentence has been completed and the
litter has been disposed of lawfully.
         (f)   Any person who has been found by the court to have willfully
failed to comply with the terms of a litter cleanup sentence imposed by the
court pursuant to this section is subject to, at the discretion of the court,
double the amount of the original fines and community service penalties.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-2)
   (C)   Authority to take possession of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor
vehicles, and inoperative household appliances.
      (1)   Any enforcement agency which has knowledge of, or discovers or
finds, any abandoned motor vehicle, junked motor vehicle, or inoperative
household appliance on either public or private property may take it into its
custody and possession.
      (2)   For that purpose, the enforcement agency may employ its own
personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire persons, equipment, and facilities
for the purpose of removing, preserving, and storing abandoned motor vehicles,
junked motor vehicles, or inoperative household appliances; provided, that
before taking any abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle into custody
and possession from private property, the enforcement agency shall give the
private property owner and the owner of the motor vehicle, if ascertainable, a
30-day notice by registered or certified mail that the action will be taken
unless the motor vehicle is restored to a functional use.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-3)
   (D)   Abandoned or junked motor vehicles; notification to motor vehicle
owner and lienholder; charges and fees; exceptions.
      (1)   The enforcement agency which takes into custody and possession an
abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle shall, within 15 days after
taking custody and possession thereof, notify the last-known registered owner
of the motor vehicle and all lienholders of record that the motor vehicle has
been taken into custody and possession, the notification to be by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall:
         (a)   Contain a description of the motor vehicle, including the year,
make, model, manufacturer’s serial or identification number, or any other
number which may have been assigned to the motor vehicle by the Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles, and any distinguishing marks;
         (b)   Set forth the location of the facility where the motor vehicle
is being held and the location where the motor vehicle was taken into custody
and possession;
         (c)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of record of their right to
reclaim the motor vehicle within ten days after the date notice was received by
the owner or lienholders, upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage
charges resulting from taking and placing the motor vehicle into custody and
possession; and
         (d)   State that the failure of the owner or lienholders of record to
exercise their right to reclaim the motor vehicle within the ten-day period
shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, and all lienholders of record of all
right, title, and interest in the motor vehicle, and of their consent to the
sale or disposal of the abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle at a
public auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
      (2)   If the identity of the last registered owner of the abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle cannot be determined, or if the certificate of
registration or certificate of title contains no address for the owner, or if
it is impossible to determine, with reasonable certainty, the identity and
addresses of all lienholders, notice shall be published as a Class I legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 59, Art. 3,
the publication area shall be the county wherein the motor vehicle was located
at the time the enforcement agency took custody and possession thereof, and the
notice shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice pursuant to this
article. Any notice by publication may contain multiple listings of abandoned
motor vehicles and junked motor vehicles. The notice shall be published within
15 days after the motor vehicle is taken into custody and possession, and shall
have the same contents required for a notice pursuant to division (D)(1) above,
except that the ten-day period shall run from the date the notice is published
as aforesaid.
      (3)   An enforcement agency which hires any person or entity to take into
custody and possession an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle
pursuant to this section shall notify the person or entity hired of the name
and address of the registered owner of the motor vehicle, if known, and all
lienholders of record, if any, within 15 days after the vehicle is taken into
custody and possession; provided, that the requirements of this division (D)(3)
shall not apply to motor vehicles for which the registered owner cannot be
ascertained by due diligence or investigation.
      (4)   The person or entity hired by an enforcement agency to take into
custody or possession an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle shall,
within 30 days after the possession, notify the registered owner of the vehicle
and all lienholders of record, if any, as identified by the enforcement agency
pursuant to division (D)(3) above, by registered mail, return receipt
requested, that the motor vehicle has been taken into custody and possession.
The notice shall have the same contents required for a notice pursuant to
division (D)(1) above, including the ten-day period the owner or lienholder has
to reclaim the motor vehicle. Upon the issuance of the notice, the identified
owner of the motor vehicle is liable and responsible for all costs for towing,
preservation, and storage of the motor vehicle; provided, that failure to issue
the notice required by this division (D)(4) within 30 days after possession of
the motor vehicle relieves the identified owner of the motor vehicle of any
liability for charges for towing, preservation, and storage in excess of the
sum of the first five days of the charges; provided, however, that the
requirements of this division (D)(4) do not apply to motor vehicles for which
the registered owner thereof cannot be ascertained by due diligence or
investigation.
      (5)   For an abandoned motor vehicle or junked vehicle having a loan
value of $7,500 or less, as ascertained by values placed upon motor vehicles
using a standard industry reference book, a person or entity hired by an
enforcement agency to tow the abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle
may, if the motor vehicle is not claimed by the owner or a lienholder after
notice within the time set forth in division (D)(4) above or if the identity of
the last registered owner of the abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor
vehicle cannot be determined, or if the certificate of registration or
certificate of title contains no address of the owner or if it is impossible to
determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of all lienholders
after publication as set forth in division (D)(2) above, file an application
with the Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of title and registration
which, upon payment of the appropriate fees, shall be issued. The person or
entity may then sell the motor vehicle at private sale or public auction.
      (6)   A licensed motor vehicle dealer, as defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-
1, a licensed automobile auction as defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-6C-1, or a
motor vehicle repair facility or a towing company registered with the Public
Service Commission pursuant to W. Va. Code § 24A-2-2a may file an application
with the Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of title and registration
for an abandoned motor vehicle or junked vehicle. Upon payment of the
appropriate fees, the Division shall deliver the certificate of title and
registration to the applicant, if:
         (a)   1.   a.   The vehicle has a loan value of $9,500 or less, as
ascertained by values placed upon motor vehicles using a standard industry
reference book; and
               b.   The motor vehicle is abandoned on the property or place of
business of the dealer, licensed automobile auction, motor vehicle repair
facility, or towing company.
            2.   This amount will be increased every five years on September 1
of the fifth year based on the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics most current consumer price index.
         (b)   One of the following situations applies:
            1.   The identity of the last registered owner of the abandoned
motor vehicle annot be determined;
            2.   The certificate of registration or certificate of title
contains no address of the owner;
            3.   It is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identity and address of all lienholders after publication, as set forth in
division (D)(2) above; or
            4.   The motor vehicle is not claimed by the owner or a lienholder
after notice within the time set forth in division (D)(4) above.
      (7)   Upon receipt of the certificate of title and registration, the
dealer, licensed automobile auction, motor vehicle repair facility, or towing
company may sell the vehicle at private sale or public auction.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, motor vehicle repair facilities and
towing companies are not used motor vehicle dealers as that term is defined by
W. Va. Code § 17A-6-1(a)(2).
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-4)
   (E)   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, and
inoperative or abandoned household appliances.
      (1)   If an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle is not
reclaimed, as provided for in division (D)(1)(d) above, the enforcement agency
in possession of the abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle shall sell
it either at a public auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher. The
purchaser of the motor vehicle shall take title to the motor vehicle free and
clear of all liens and claims of ownership and shall receive a sales receipt
from the enforcement agency which disposed of the motor vehicle. The sales
receipt at the sale shall be sufficient title only for purposes of transferring
the motor vehicle to a licensed salvage yard or to a demolisher for demolition,
wrecking, or dismantling, and no further titling of the motor vehicle shall be
necessary by either the purchaser at the auction, the licensed salvage yard, or
the demolisher, who shall be exempt from the payment of any fees and taxes
required under Article 3, Chapter 17-a of this code; provided, that the
purchaser at the auction must place the motor vehicle in the possession of a
licensed salvage yard or demolisher within 20 days from the date he or she
purchased the motor vehicle, and the licensed salvage yards or demolisher must
demolish, wreck, or dismantle the motor vehicle within six months after taking
possession of the motor vehicle, and if the licensed salvage yard or demolisher
does not, the licensed salvage yard or demolisher shall be required to pay all
fees and taxes required under Article 3, Chapter 17-a of this code.
      (2)   When an enforcement agency has, in its custody and possession, an
inoperative or abandoned household appliances collected in accordance with W.
Va. Code § 17-24A-7 it shall sell the property from time to time at public
auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-5)
   (F)   Proceeds from sale of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles,
and inoperative household appliances.
      (1)   From the proceeds of any sale, the enforcement agency which sold
the abandoned motor vehicle, junked motor vehicle, or inoperative household
appliance shall reimburse itself for any expenses it may have incurred in
removing, towing, preserving, and storing said property and the expenses of
conducting any auction, and any notice and publication expenses incurred
pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Any remainder from the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle after payment of expenses shall be held for the
last registered owner of the motor vehicle or any lienholder for 90 days, after
which time, if no owner or lienholder claims the remainder, it shall be
deposited in the State Road Fund.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-6)
   (G)   Title to abandoned antique motor vehicle; special procedure; notice to
owner; fees; criminal penalties.
      (1)   Application for title to abandoned antique motor vehicle.
         (a)   A person may apply to the Division for ownership and title to an
abandoned antique motor vehicle if that person:
            1.   Is the owner of private property on which the vehicle is
located; or
            2.   Has obtained a valid vehicle removal certificate from the
division.
         (b)   The application shall include the following:
            1.   The name, address, and other contact information of the
applicant;
            2.   The year, make, model, vehicle identification number, and any
other identifying marks on the vehicle; provided, that if there is no vehicle
identification number, the applicant shall provide all information available or
reasonably ascertainable to identify the year, make, and model of the vehicle;
and
            3.   Any other information required by the Division.
         (c)   Upon application for title to an abandoned antique motor
vehicle, the applicant shall pay a fee of $100 to the Division.
      (2)   Vehicle removal certificate. In a manner prescribed by the
Division, a person may apply for a vehicle removal certificate at no fee by
presenting records sufficient to demonstrate to a reasonable degree of
certainty that the owner of the private property on which an abandoned antique
motor vehicle is located has given the applicant written permission to remove
the vehicle from the private property.
      (3)   Search for owner and lienholders; notice.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for title to an abandoned antique
motor vehicle, the division shall initiate a search for the last owner of the
vehicle and any lienholders of record of the vehicle, using the year, make,
model, vehicle identification number, and any other identifying marks on the
vehicle, and, if there is no vehicle identification number, the information
provided on the application related to the year, make, and model of the motor
vehicle that was available to the applicant. The Division shall, at a minimum,
search:
            1.   Its own records;
            2.   The records of a nationally recognized crime database; and
            3.   Records of a nationally recognized motor vehicle title
database for owner information.
         (b)   If, in the course of a search, the division discovers that the
vehicle has been reported as stolen, the Division shall notify the appropriate
law enforcement agency of that fact.
         (c)   If the Division determines the identity and address of the owner
and any lienholder, the Division shall, by certified mail with return receipt
requested, notify the owner and any lienholder of the application for title to
the vehicle and the contact information for the owner of the property on which
the vehicle is located. Such notice, when sent in accordance with these
requirements, shall be sufficient regardless of whether or not it was ever
received. The owner or lienholder will then have the following options, which
shall be detailed in the Division’s letter of notice:
            1.   Pay a $100 fee to the Division, $50 of which shall be awarded
to the applicant, and reclaim and remove the vehicle from private property
within 30 days of the date of receiving notice at a time and in a manner
arranged with the owner of the private property; or
            2.   Waives all right, title, and interest in the motor vehicle,
and the right, title, and interest in the vehicle shall be transferred to the
applicant, free of all liens and encumbrances.
         (d)   If the Division performs a search pursuant to this division (G)
(3), and the identity and address of the owner cannot be determined with
reasonable certainty, the division shall immediately transfer all right, title,
and interest in the vehicle to the applicant, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances.
      (4)   Rules and forms.
         (a)   The Division shall promulgate rules necessary to carry out this
section, and shall create the following forms:
            1.   A form to apply for the title to an abandoned antique vehicle,
which shall require an applicant to provide the following information:
         a.   The applicant’s legal name and contact information;
         b.   The vehicle identification number; provided, that if the vehicle
does not have a vehicle identification number, the applicant shall follow the
procedure set forth in divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3) above;
         c.   The year, make, and model of the vehicle;
         d.   The current location of the vehicle; and
         e.   The current contact information for the owner of the private
property on which the vehicle is located.
            2.   A vehicle removal certificate, which shall be issued to a
person who presents the records required by division (G)(2) above, and shall
require the following information:
         a.   The applicant’s legal name and contact information;
         b.   The vehicle identification number; provided, that if the vehicle
does not have a vehicle identification number, the applicant shall follow the
procedure set forth in divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3) above;
         c.   The year, make, and model of the vehicle;
         d.   The current location of the vehicle; and
         e.   The current contact information for the owner of the private
property on which the vehicle is located.
         (b)   If an applicant or person requesting a vehicle removal
certificate cannot, after reasonable efforts, determine the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle, the person may pay a $100 fee to the
State Police to inspect the vehicle, determine, in the sole discretion of the
Division, the year, make, and model of the motor vehicle using all information
available or reasonably ascertainable, and assign the motor vehicle a new
vehicle identification number.
         (c)   If the State Police cannot locate a vehicle identification
number on an abandoned antique vehicle, the State Police shall verify, in
writing, that the vehicle has no vehicle identification number. The applicant
may then present the written verification to the Division, which shall then
issue a new vehicle identification number for the vehicle pursuant to Section
20, Article 3, Chapter 17-a of this code.
      (5)   Obstruction of removal of vehicle from private property prohibited.
No person shall knowingly interfere with a person who has acquired title to an
antique motor vehicle and is reclaiming and removing a vehicle from private
property pursuant to the procedures set forth in this division (G). Any person
violating this division (G)(5) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-6a)
   (H)   Injunctive relief; additional remedy. In addition to all other
remedies provided for in this article, the Attorney General of this state, the
prosecuting attorney of any county where any violation of any provision of this
section occurs, or any citizen, resident, or taxpayer of the county where any
violation of any provision of this section occurs may apply to the Circuit
Court, or the Judge thereof in vacation, of the county where the alleged
violation occurred for an injunction to restrain, prevent, or abate the
maintenance and storage of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, or
inoperative household appliances, in violation of any provision of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 9-23)
§ 9-24 WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on his or her person,
within this city, any metallic knuckles, dirk, switchblade knife, blackjack, or
other weapon or instrument commonly used for the purpose of inflicting personal
injury.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on his or her person,
within this city, any firearm, unless such person possesses a legal permit to
do such. This section shall not apply to law enforcement officers while engaged
in the exercise of their official duties or to other persons exempted by the
state code. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for,
the violation thereof shall be a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment
not exceeding 30 days, or both such fine or imprisonment. Each day any such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-24)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-25 SAME; DISCHARGE OF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, within this city,
any firearm, air rifle, B.B. gun, slingshot, or other weapon or instrument
which discharges a projectile capable of inflicting bodily injury, except in
the lawful defense of person or property, and except in the performance of a
lawful duty; provided, that this section shall not apply to the use of blank
ammunition at athletic events, military funerals, and other functions at which
use of blank ammunition is appropriate, nor shall it apply to the use of ball
ammunition or arrows on lawful target ranges where such activity is conducted
under competent supervision.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for, the
violation thereof shall be a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, or both such fine or imprisonment. Each day any such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-25)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-26 INDECENT CONDUCT; NUDITY, EXPOSURE OF PERSON, AND THE LIKE GENERALLY.
   No person shall appear upon the streets or any other public place within the
city in a state of nudity, or in any indecent or lewd dress; or make an obscene
or indecent exposure of his or her person, or make any such indecent or obscene
exposure of person in any dwelling or other place wherefrom he or she may be
seen in any such street or other public place; or commit any obscene, indecent,
or lewd act or be guilty of any indecent, obscene, or lewd behavior.
(Prior Code, § 9-26)
§ 9-27 SAME; MARKING OF INDECENT WORDS, PICTURES, AND THE LIKE, AT PLACES
EXPOSED TO PUBLIC VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, draw, mark, or otherwise
display any obscene, lewd, or indecent word, picture, or figure upon any street
or sidewalk, or upon any pole, wall, or other structure in any public place or
upon any pole, wall, or other structure so as to be visible in any public
place.
(Prior Code, § 9-27)
§ 9-28 THROWING MISSILES IN STREETS OR PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person within the city shall throw any stone, brick, stick, can, or other
missile in or onto any street, open space, public square, or enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 9-28)
§ 9-29 ADOPTION OF STATE CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   All of the criminal provision of the Code of West Virginia of 1931, as
amended, are hereby incorporated into and made a part of the city code, so that
any offense which would constitute an offense against the laws of the state
shall, if committed within the territory of the city, shall likewise be an
offense against the city code. The provision of this section shall apply to all
land which shall be within the territorial confines of the city, as the same
may be extended from time to time, and upon all lands owned or leased by the
city or operated by the instrumentalities thereof, such as lands operated by
the Park Commission of the city and the City Industrial Commission.
   (A)   Any person charged with the commission of an offense against the city
code, which is incorporated into the city code by the provisions of this
section, shall, upon conviction, be subject to the same fines, costs, and
imprisonment for which provision is made in the aforesaid Code of West
Virginia, as amended, upon conviction in the courts of the state for such
offense; provided, however, that in no circumstances shall the fine imposed
upon conviction of any offense against the city code exceed the sum of $1,000,
nor shall any person who is convicted of an offense against the city code be
subject to imprisonment for more than 30 days.
   (B)   Any offense for which a specific penalty is not provided in the Code
of West Virginia, as amended, as incorporated into the city code by this
section, shall upon conviction carry a fine and imprisonment and assigned by §
9-17.
   (C)   Any person convicted of any offense against the city code shall, upon
conviction, pay all court cost as assigned by §
15-500 of the city code, and the costs of any incarceration as taxed by the
Sheriff of the county or the regional jail.
   (D)   If and when the legislature of the state shall amend any law of the
state incorporated into the city code by this section, or shall enact a new
statute pertaining to any criminal offense against the state, such enactment
shall automatically become incorporated into and made part of the city code
unless the Council of the city shall, prior to the thirtieth day following the
effective date of any such legislative enactment, adopt by resolution a
disavowal of incorporation of such legislative enactment. Any provision of the
Code of West Virginia, as amended, which shall be repealed by the legislature
of the state or invalidated by the Supreme Court of Appeals of the state, shall
simultaneously be repealed from the city code. All interpretations and
constructions of the criminal statutes of the state by its Supreme Court of
Appeals or by the Circuit Court of the county shall govern the construction and
interpretation of the parallel provision of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 9-29)
§ 9-30 MUNICIPALITY PUBLIC USES, FACILITY USE, HOURS OF OPERATION, PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The following are the hours of operation for municipal public
uses and facility uses.
         (a)   The city reservoir shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Night fishing is permitted except by permit only.
         (b)   The City Myles Stadium shall be closed from the hours of 10:00
p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
         (c)   Sullivan Gym shall be closed from the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:
00 a.m.
      (2)   These hours shall not apply to law enforcement, city maintenance
workers during the performance of their official duties, and those with a
special permit.
   (B)   (1)   Fires may be lighted only in a fireplace or other facilities
constructed for a fire, or use a charcoal grill or a gasoline or gas stove, or
fire rings or grills, provided by the city.
      (2)   Those persons responsible for a fire shall extinguish it completely
before leaving it. Ashes, charcoal briquettes, and other materials used for a
fire shall be left in the fire ring or grill and shall not be strewn over the
ground.
   (C)   Loud or excessive noise, demonstrations, disturbances, disorderly
conduct, profanity, public drunkenness, and the possession or use of controlled
substances is prohibited.
   (D)   Garbage, waste, bottles, cans, paper, junk, or any other trash or
refuse shall be deposited in trash containers or removed from the premises. It
shall not be dumped, deposited, or strewn within the boundary of the city park.
   (E)   Dogs and cats are the only pets permitted in the city park. They shall
be restrained at all times on a sturdy leash not to exceed ten feet in length.
The owner or master shall clean up the pet’s excreta, keep it quiet and from
disturbing other guests, and is responsible for all damages it causes.
   (F)   Horseback riding is permitted only on roads normally open to public
travel and designated routes and areas as posted on the area.
      (1)   No person shall bring or allow horses in designated camping areas.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the removal and disposal of any
waste produced by the animals.
      (3)   Feed shall be restricted to locally obtained or pelletized horse
feed.
   (G)   Fireworks, explosives, incendiaries, flammables, and other dangerous
substances are prohibited in the city park.
   (H)   Uncased firearms, uncased bows, and uncased arrows are prohibited in
the city recreation areas.
   (I)   City assumes no responsibility for any personal property. If personal
property is abandoned or left unattended by public use guests more than 48
hours, it will be removed from the public use area and disposed of according to
law.
   (J)   Hawking, peddling, soliciting, begging, advertising, or carrying on
any business or commercial enterprise is prohibited in the city parks and
recreation areas without the written permission of from the city.
   (K)   Motor vehicles must stay on designated roads and parking lots. It is
unlawful for any unauthorized motor vehicle to go beyond a gate, cable, or
other obstruction, or to proceed beyond any sign prohibiting such travel. All
persons operating motor vehicles in the city park shall obey and comply with
all applicable state laws and rules.
   (L)   Camping shall not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 9-30)
ARTICLE 1: CRIMES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
9-100   Larceny-petit
   
9-101   Receiving or transferring stolen goods
   
9-102   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
9-103   Tampering with and theft of city property or utilities; CATV
   
9-104   Trespass
   
9-105   Cemeteries
   
9-106   Breaking, and the like, street lamps or traffic signs
   
9-107   Shoplifting; definition, evidence, penalty
   
9-108   Same; to constitute breach of peace, detention
   
9-109   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
   
9-110   Malicious mischief
   
9-111   Permit required for excavation
   
9-112   Prohibiting drilling, fracturing, completion, reworking, and other
associated well work or exploration, production, or storage wells for oil,
natural gas, hydrocarbon, and other fugacious minerals
§ 9-100 LARCENY-PETIT.
   If a person commits simple larceny of goods or chattels of the value of less
than $1,000, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor, designated petit larceny,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not to exceed $2,500.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-13) (Prior Code, § 9-100)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-101 RECEIVING OR TRANSFERRING STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, or possesses any stolen
goods or other thing of value, which he or she knows or has reason to believe
has been stolen, that person is guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender has not been convicted; provided,
that purchasers of scrap metal, who are in compliance with the provisions of W.
Va. Code § 61-3-49, are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-18) (Prior Code, § 9-101)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-102 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (A)   If any person unlawfully, but not feloniously, takes and carries away,
or destroys, injures, or defaces any property, real or personal, of another, he
or she is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $500.
   (B)   If any person breaks down, destroys, injures, defaces, or removes any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of a
municipality, tract, or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose, or
any sign or notice upon private property designating no trespassing upon the
property, except signs or notices posted in accordance with the provisions and
purposes of W. Va. Code §§ 20-2-7, 20-2-8, and 20-2-10, he or she is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $200, or confined in the county or regional jail not less than
one nor more than six months, or both fined and imprisoned. Magistrates have
concurrent jurisdiction of all offenses arising under the provisions of this
section. The provisions of this division (B) do not apply to the owner, or his
or her agent, of the lands on which such signs or notices are posted.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-30) (Prior Code, § 9-102)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-103 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF CITY PROPERTY OR UTILITIES; CATV.
   (A)   No person shall, without proper authority, knowingly use, tamper with,
render inoperative, conceal, destroy, damage, remove, deface, molest, or
otherwise interfere with any books, records, furniture, equipment, gear,
apparatus, tools, or other items of personal property belonging to, leased to,
or used by the city or any agency thereof.
   (B)   No person shall, without proper authority, knowingly destroy, damage,
deface, molest, or otherwise interfere with or trespass upon any real property
belonging to, leased to, or used by the city or any agency thereof.
   (C)   No person shall, with intent to injure or defraud, procure, make, or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire, or other conductor of water, with any
main service pipe or other pipe supplying water without passing through the
meter provided for measuring and registering the quantity of water consumed, or
in any other manner so as to evade payment therefor.
   (D)   No person shall, with the intent to injure or defraud, make, or cause
to be made any pipe, tube, or other conductor, to connect to the city sanitary
sewer with the forethought to evade payment therefor or obtain service without
proper authority.
   (E)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the city for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive any
television signal, radio signal, picture, sound, or other transmission, without
payment for the service.
   (F)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for distribution of
television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound, or other transmission.
   (G)   In addition to any other penalties prescribed under this statute
regarding the destruction or interference with city services there is hereby
imposed upon any person, firm, or corporation a criminal penalty and fine for
theft or unauthorized use of the following city services:
      (1)   Water;
      (2)   Sewer;
      (3)   Stormwater; and
      (4)   Garbage.
   (H)   In the event that any person, firm, or corporation should engage in
the unauthorized use, turn on, entry, or theft of any of services listed in
division (G) above, that person, firm or corporation shall be liable for a
criminal penalty and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
Each day that such violation should occur shall constitute a separate offense
for the purposes of this provision.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 9-104 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT. An ACT is committed or “in the course of committing” if it occurs in
an attempt to commit the offense, or in flight after the attempt or commission.
      CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car, railroad engine,
trailer, aircraft, or sleeping car, and to ENTER A CONVEYANCE includes taking
apart any portion of the CONVEYANCE.
      CULTIVATED LAND. The land which has been cleared of its natural
vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture, or
trees, or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
      FENCED LAND. The land which has been enclosed by a fence of substantial
construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron, steel, barbed
wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three feet in height.
For the purpose of this section, it shall not be necessary to fence any
boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water and is
posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section. Where lands are
POSTED, CULTIVATED, or FENCED, as described herein, then such lands, for the
purpose of this section, shall be considered as enclosed and posted.
      POSTED LAND.
         (a)   Land that has:
            1.   Signs placed not more than 500 feet apart along and at each
corner of the boundaries of the land. The signs shall be reasonably maintained,
with letters of not less than two inches in height, and the words “no
trespassing.” The signs shall be placed along the boundary line and at all
roads, driveways, and gates of entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line; or
            2.   Boundaries marked with clearly visible purple, red, orange, or
bright yellow painted markings, consisting of two horizontal, parallel lines,
each no less than 12 inches in length and two inches in height, affixed to
immovable, permanent objects that are no more than 100 feet apart. Signs shall
also be posted at all roads, driveways, or gates of entry onto the posted land
so as to be clearly noticeable from outside of the boundary line.
         (b)   It is not necessary to give notice by posting on any enclosed
land or place not exceeding five acres in area on which there is a dwelling
house or property that, by its nature and use, is obviously private in order to
obtain the benefits of this section pertaining to trespass on enclosed lands.
      STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent, which
has a roof over it, together with the cartilage thereof.
      TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in, or under the property
of another, but shall not include the following:
         (a)   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions, or by the
officers, agencies, or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law;
         (b)   The exercise of rights in, under, or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way, or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement, whether by written or prescriptive right;
         (c)   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry;
         (d)   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under, or upon such property; and
         (e)   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance, and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-1)
   (B)   Trespass in structure or conveyance.
      (1)   Any person who knowingly enters in, upon, or under a structure or
conveyance without being authorized, licensed, or invited, or having been
authorized, licensed, or invited is requested to depart by the owner, tenant,
or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses to do so, shall be fined not
more than $100 or confined in jail not more than six months; provided, that for
any first offense under this division (B)(1), the presiding judicial officer
may order pretrial diversion to include community service in accordance with W.
Va. Code §§ 62-11C-1 et seq., in lieu of imposing a fine or term of
confinement.
      (2)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
while in the structure or conveyance, with the unlawful and felonious intent to
do bodily injury to a human being in such structure or conveyance at the time
the offender knowingly trespasses, such offender shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be subject to the penalty provided in § 9-
17.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-2)
   (C)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
      (1)   It is an unlawful trespass for any person to knowingly, and without
being authorized, licensed, or invited to enter or remain on any property,
other than a structure or conveyance, as to which notice against entering or
remaining is either given by actual communication to such person or by posting,
fencing, or cultivation.
         (a)   Upon a first trespassing conviction pursuant to this division
(C)(1), the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500.
         (b)   Upon a second trespassing conviction pursuant to division (C)
(1), the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000.
         (c)   Upon a third and subsequent trespassing conviction pursuant to
division (C)(1), the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
      (2)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally communicated
to him or her by the owner, tenant, or agent of such owner or tenant, or if the
offender opens any door, fence, or gate, and thereby exposes animals, crops, or
other property to waste, destruction, or freedom, or causes any damage to
property by such trespassing on property other than a structure or conveyance,
he or she shall be fined not more than $100 and liable for all loss or damages
according to State Code.
      (3)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being
during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other than
a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or fined not more
than $100, or both.
      (4)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the amount of twice
the amount of such damage.
      (5)   Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent lawful assembly
and petition for the redress of grievances, during any dispute, including, but
not limited to, activities protected by the West Virginia Constitution or the
United States Constitution or any statute of this state or the United States.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-3) (Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 9-105 CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, mark, scratch, write upon, or
otherwise deface or damage any tomb or gravestone, monument, vault, or other
memorial within any graveyard or cemetery within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 9-105)
§ 9-106 BREAKING, AND THE LIKE, STREET LAMPS OR TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or disfigure any of the street
lamps or traffic signs in the city, or to light or extinguish any such lamps
unless authorized to do so by the proper authorities.
(Prior Code, § 9-106)
§ 9-107 SHOPLIFTING; DEFINITION, EVIDENCE, PENALTY.
   (A)   Elements of offense.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of shoplifting if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         (a)   Conceals the merchandise upon the person or in another manner;
         (b)   Removes, or causes the removal, of merchandise from the
mercantile establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         (c)   Alters, transfers, or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         (d)   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         (e)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         (f)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund, or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund, for
merchandise which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold, or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuff, wares, or personal property; or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held, or offered
for sale; or a shopping cart.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents, or other agents.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held,
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of merchandise, or,
in the event of altering, transferring, or removing a price marking or causing
a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail value of
the merchandise, as defined in division (A) above, the difference between the
merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the altered price.
   (C)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership or merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         (b)   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         (c)   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
   (D)   Penalties. A person convicted of shoplifting shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
         (a)   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $100,
the defendant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$250; or
         (b)   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $100, the defendant
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100, nor
more than $500, and such fine shall not be suspended; or the defendant shall be
imprisoned in the county jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and
imprisoned.
      (2)   Second or subsequent offense conviction. Upon a second or
subsequent shoplifting conviction:
         (a)   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $100,
the defendant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$100, nor more than $500, and such fine shall not be suspended; or the
defendant shall be imprisoned in the county jail not more than 30 days, or both
fined and imprisoned; or
         (b)   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $100, the defendant
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $500, and shall be
imprisoned in the county jail for not less than 30 days, nor more than 30 days.
At least 30 days shall actually be spent in confinement and not subject to
probation.
      (3)   Mandatory penalty.
         (a)   In addition to the fines and imprisonment imposed by this
section, in all cases of conviction for the offense of shoplifting, the court
shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the mercantile establishment
involved in the amount of $50, or double the value of the merchandise involved,
whichever is higher.
         (b)   The mercantile establishment shall be entitled to collect such
mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil judgment. This penalty shall be in
addition to the mercantile establishment’s rights to recover the stolen
merchandise.
      (4)   Determining prior convictions. In determining the number of prior
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(Prior Code, § 9-107)
Statutory reference:
   Shoplifting, see W. Va. Code §§ 61-3A-1 et seq.
§ 9-108 SAME; TO CONSTITUTE BREACH OF PEACE, DETENTION.
   (A)   An act of shoplifting, as defined in §
9-107, is hereby declared to constitute a breach of peace and any owner of
merchandise, or the owner’s agent or employee, or any law enforcement officer,
who has reasonable ground to believe that a person has committed shoplifting,
may detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of
time not to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of investigating whether or not
such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting.
   (B)   Such reasonable detention shall not constitute an arrest, nor shall it
render the owner of merchandise, or the owner’s agent or employee, liable to
the person detained.
(Prior Code, § 9-108)
§ 9-109 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool, or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage, or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of any premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well, or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to
build, or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground
surface with rock, gravel, earth, or other suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 9-109)
§ 9-110 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or wantonly
damage, deface, destroy, conceal, tamper with, remove, or withhold any real or
personal property which does not belong to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 9-110)
§ 9-111 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation or
other opening in any street or public place without first obtaining a permit to
do such from the City Council.
      (2)   The fee for such a permit shall be $5.
   (B)   (1)   In order to obtain the excavation permit, the applicant must
appear in person before the City Council and submit to said Council the plans,
specifications, cost, and location of the excavation activity for either
approval or rejection.
      (2)   If the Council grants its approval, it shall authorize the issuance
of the permit. The aforementioned information must be submitted and approved,
and the permit issued, before any excavation work can begin.
(Prior Code, § 9-111)
§ 9-112 PROHIBITING DRILLING, FRACTURING, COMPLETION, REWORKING, AND OTHER
ASSOCIATED WELL WORK OR EXPLORATION, PRODUCTION, OR STORAGE WELLS FOR OIL,
NATURAL GAS, HYDROCARBON, AND OTHER FUGACIOUS MINERALS.
   (A)   Drilling, fracturing, completion, reworking, and other associated work
on wells drilled, or to be drilled, and the purpose of which is to explore for,
produce, or store natural gas, oil, casing head gas, other hydrocarbons, and
other fugacious minerals at any place within the corporate boundaries of the
city, as they may be adjusted from time to time be, and each such activity is
hereby declared to be, a public nuisance, a hazard to public health and safety,
and forbidden; provided, however, that nothing is this section shall in any way
interfere with any safe ongoing operations on any such well already drilled and
completed within the corporate boundaries of the city as of the effective date
of this section or in any way interfere with the economic value of any such
existing well; and provided, further, that this section shall not apply to the
drilling, fracturing, or completion one and only one such well may at any time
be drilled, fractured, completed, renewed or the subject of associated work on
said tract of land and at a location at least 500 feet, by closest measurement,
to any dwelling house or water well, or any public roadway or public right-of-
way.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to procure and post, at each state
highway entrances to the city, a suitable sign indicating the foregoing
restrictions.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other business entity violating the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $10,000, plus court costs for each day of
the violation, each day constituting a separate offense and subject to suit in
the Circuit Court of the county to abate the public nuisance and hazard to
public safety and health presented by such violation(s), or both.
(Prior Code, § 9-112)
ARTICLE 2: CRIMES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
9-200   Assault
   
9-201   Battery
§ 9-200 ASSAULT.
   Any person who unlawfully attempts to commit a violent injury to the person
of another, or unlawfully commits an act that places another in reasonable
apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-9) (Prior Code, § 9-200)
§ 9-201 BATTERY.
   Any person who unlawfully and intentionally makes physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature to the person of another, or unlawfully and
intentionally causes physical harm to another person, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-9) (Prior Code, § 9-201)
ARTICLE 3: CRIMES AGAINST PEACE AND DECENCY
Section
   
9-300   Breach of peace
   
9-301   Disorderly conduct
   
9-302   Disturbance of religious worship
   
9-303   Drunkenness
   
9-304   False emergency alarm
   
9-305   Loitering
   
9-306   Loitering on school property
   
9-307   Profane, obscene, indecent, or vulgar language; threats over telephone
   
9-308   Willful disruption of governmental process
   
9-309   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
9-310   Obscenity
   
9-311   Indecent exposure
   
9-312   Prostitution
   
9-313   Peeping and prowling
   
9-314   Gambling; keeping or exhibiting table, machine, or device
   
9-315   Same; betting
   
9-316   Vacant lots and temporary structures used for entertainment purposes
   
9-317   Wearing masks, hoods, or face coverings
   
9-318   Spitting
   
9-319   Public urination or defecation
   
9-320   Riots and unlawful assemblies
   
9-321   Noise
   
9-322   Smoking is prohibited
§ 9-300 BREACH OF PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
noisy, boisterous, belligerent, violent, or tumultuous manner, which causes
disturbances to the peace and quiet of others. No person shall knowingly permit
such conduct upon any premises owned or possessed by such person or under such
person’s control.
(Prior Code, § 9-300)
§ 9-301 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be a disorderly person within the
corporate limits of this city, as follows:
   (A)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of such person’s life,
limb, or health;
   (B)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed
or damaged;
   (C)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence, angry threats, or abusive conduct;
   (D)   Any person who shall cause, provoke, or engage in any fight, brawl, or
riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of
another;
   (E)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for
the purpose of causing, provoking, or engaging in any fight or brawl;
   (F)   Any person who shall jostle or roughly crowd, or push, any person in
any public place;
   (G)   Any person who shall collect in bodies or crowds for unlawful
purposes;
   (H)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for
the purpose of, or with the intent to, engage in unlawful gambling;
   (I)   Any person who shall act in a dangerous manner toward another;
   (J)   Any person who shall, by acts or threats of violence, interfere with
another’s pursuit of a lawful occupation;
   (K)   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any
public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and
refuses to clear such public way when ordered by city police; and
   (L)   Any person who shall direct words to another, which can be reasonably
calculated to incite an assault.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)
§ 9-302 DISTURBANCE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
   If any person willfully shall interrupt, molest, or disturb any assembly of
people met for the worship of God, such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-302)
§ 9-303 DRUNKENNESS.
   A person shall not:
   (A)   Appear in a public place or in public view in an intoxicated
condition;
   (B)   Drink alcoholic liquor on any highway, street, alley, or in any public
square;
   (C)   Drink alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle parked on any highway,
street, and alley, or in any public square; and/or
   (D)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor to another in a public place.
(Prior Code, § 9-303)
§ 9-304 FALSE EMERGENCY ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally make, turn in, or give
a false report of need for fire, police, or ambulance assistance, or to aid in
the commission of such an act.
(Prior Code, § 9-304)
§ 9-305 LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without legitimate business or purpose,
to loaf, loiter, wander, or idle in, upon, or about any way or place
customarily open to public use.
(Prior Code, § 9-305)
§ 9-306 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
    No person not a student in regular attendance shall loiter in or about any
school, school building, or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(Prior Code, § 9-306)
§ 9-307 PROFANE, OBSCENE, INDECENT, OR VULGAR LANGUAGE; THREATS OVER TELEPHONE.
   If any person shall profanely curse, swear at, or abuse another, or use
profane, obscene, indecent, or vulgar language over any telephone wire or
system in this city, or, being in this city, shall use such language while
talking to another person out of the city, or over a telephone shall threaten
to commit a crime against any person, such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-307)
§ 9-308 WILLFUL DISRUPTION OF GOVERNMENTAL PROCESS.
   If any person willfully interrupts or molests the orderly and peaceful
process of any department, division, agency, or branch of this city government,
such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. However, any assembly in a
peaceable, lawful, and orderly manner for a redress of grievances shall not be
a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-308)
§ 9-309 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting public
morals and decency:
   (A)   All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured, sold,
bartered, or given away in violation of law, or where persons are permitted to
resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquors kept for sale, barter,
or distribution in violation of law, and all liquors, bottles, kegs, pumps,
bars, and other property kept at and used for maintaining such a place;
   (B)   Any vehicle used for any illegal purpose;
   (C)   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, and
newspapers;
   (D)   Betting, bookmaking, or selling baseball pools or race horse pools,
and all apparatus used in such connection; and/or
   (E)   Gambling houses where minors under the age of 18 years are permitted
to enter and are permitted to loaf and loiter therein; where punchboards, slot
machines, race horse pools, baseball pools, or any other scheme, device, or
apparatus is kept and promoted which constitutes a game of chance, gambling
device, or any other scheme by whatsoever name known which is classed as and is
defined by state statute as a game of chance.
(Prior Code, § 9-309)
§ 9-310 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Right of free speech preserved. Nothing herein shall be construed to
limit the free exercise of free speech or picketing by any organization, group,
or individual for the purpose of upholding community standards.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment having, as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or any other coin-operated
means, and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to “obscene matter,” or
an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of
such matter.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50
or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting material having as
a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “obscene matter,” for observation
by patrons therein.
      ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity
for less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
“obscene matter,” for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features topless
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers.
      DISTANCES. Measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building used as a
business or enterprise described in this division (B), to the nearest property
line of the premises of a church or public or private elementary or secondary
school, or the nearest boundary of a city or public park or playground.
      OBSCENE MATTER. To the average individual applying contemporary state
standards, matter which:
         (a)   Considered as a whole, appeals to prurient interests;
         (b)   Depicts or describes ultimate sexual acts, both normal and
perverted, actual or simulated, masturbation, sodomy, fellatio, cunnilingus,
bestiality, sadism, excretory functions, or livid exhibition of the genitals;
and/or
         (c)   Considered as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
   (C)   Regulated uses. Regulated uses include all adult uses which include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Adult book store;
      (2)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (3)   Adult mini motion picture theater; and
      (4)   Adult entertainment cabaret.
   (D)   Permitted in certain zones. Adult uses shall be permitted only in the
area of the city which is zoned a commercial district, as set forth in the
zoning chapter (Chapter 10, Article 4), and shall be subject to the restriction
that no adult uses shall be allowed within 1,000 feet of any pre-existing
church or other place of public worship, public or private elementary or
secondary school, to a city or public park or playground, or any residential
district.
   (E)   Miscellaneous provisions and penalties.
      (1)   (a)   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits
the observation of any material depicting, describing, or relating to “obscene
matter” from any public way or from any property not licensed as an adult use.
         (b)   This division (E) shall apply to any display, decoration, sign,
show window, or other opening.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 and, in the discretion of
the Judge, imprisoned for a term not to exceed 30 days.
         (b)   Each offense and each day such violation shall continue shall be
regarded as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-310)
§ 9-311 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   Any person who shall make an obscene or lewd exposure of the person to
public view shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-311)
§ 9-312 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Any person who shall keep, set up, maintain, or operate any house,
place, building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, or part thereof, or
vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution,
lewdness, or assignation; or who shall own any place, house, hotel, tourist
camp, other structure, or part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing
the same to be used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation;
or who shall let, sublet, or rent any such place, premises, or conveyance to
another with knowledge or good reason to know of the intention of the lessee or
renter to use such place or premises for prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation; or who shall offer to secure another for the purpose of
prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act; or who, for another or
others, shall direct, take, or transport, or offer to take or transport, or aid
or assist in transporting, any person to any such house, place, building,
hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance; or
who shall aid, abet, or participate in doing any acts herein prohibited, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who shall engage in prostitution, lewdness, or assignation,
or who shall solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or who shall reside in, enter, or
remain in any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure,
or enter or remain in any vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose
of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or who shall aid, abet, or
participate in the doing of any of the acts herein prohibited, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-312)
§ 9-313 PEEPING AND PROWLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in the daytime or nighttime, to go upon
the premises of any person for the purpose of peeping into or prowling around
the same. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-313)
§ 9-314 GAMBLING; KEEPING OR EXHIBITING TABLE, MACHINE, OR DEVICE.
   (A)   Any person who shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called
A.B.C. or E.O. table, or faro bank, or keno table, or any slot machine,
multiple coin console machine, multiple coin console slot machine, or device in
the nature of a slot machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind,
under any denomination, or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank,
machine, or device be played with cards, dice, or otherwise, or shall be a
partner, or concerned in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank,
machine, or gaming device of any character, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any such table, faro bank, machine, or gaming device, and all money staked or
exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table, or upon such gaming device,
may be seized and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $1,000, and by order of the Municipal Court all money so seized shall be
forfeited to the municipality and paid into the Municipal Treasury, and the
table, faro bank, machine, or gaming device shall be completely destroyed.
Provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not extend to
coin-operated, non-payout machines with free play feature or to automatic
weighing, measuring, musical, and vending machines which are so constructed as
to give a certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin
deposited therein, and in which there is no element of chance.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-1)
   (B)   If any person knowingly permits a gaming table, bank, or device, such
as is mentioned in the preceding section, to be kept or exhibited on any
premises in his or her occupation, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-2)
   (C)   If any person shall act as doorkeeper, guard, or watch, or employ
another person to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any such gaming
table, bank, or device, or shall resist, or by any means or device, prevent,
hinder, or delay the lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure
of the table, bank, or device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, or shall
unlawfully take the same from the person seizing it, he or she shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not exceeding $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-3)
   (D)   If any person bet or play at any such gaming table, bank, or device,
as is mentioned in this section, or if at any hotel or tavern, or other public
place, or place of public resort, he or she play at any game except bowls,
chess or backgammon, draughts, or a licensed game, or bet on the sides of those
who play at any game, whether the game be permitted or licensed or not, he or
she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
less than $5 nor more than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-4)
   (E)   (1)   The establishment of a video lottery, as licensed and authorized
by the state, with the exception of sale of state lottery tickets, or
charitable or public service organizations, shall be subject to the following
limitations.
         (a)   No public entrance to a video gaming or lottery establishment
within the city shall be located within 3,000 feet of the closest public
entrance of any church or place of worship.
         (b)   No video gaming or lottery establishment within the city shall
be located within 1,000 feet of another such establishment already providing
video lottery or having a license to do so, or any library, public park, public
playground, school, children daycare center, nursing or personal care home,
continuous care facility, or rehabilitation facility that is located within the
city.
         (c)   One parking space shall be required for each video lottery
machine on premises, in addition to any other parking required in accordance
with ordinances adopted by the city related to off-street parking.
         (d)   Any establishment shall not be located within 1,000 feet as
measured from each property line of a residential district.
         (e)   For the purpose of this section, the distance shall be measured
along a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
from the nearest portion of the parcel of real estate upon which an
establishment providing video lottery is located to the nearest property line
of the premises of another video lottery or gambling establishment, church or
place of worship, library, public park, public playground, school, children
daycare center, nursing or personal care home, continuous care facility, or
rehabilitation facility.
         (f)   1.   The City Council may waive the space provisions as set
forth in divisions (E)(1)(a) through (E)(1)(e) above, provided that:
               a.   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public
interest or adversely affect the value, use, or enjoyment of nearby property,
and that the spirit and intent of this section will be observed;
               b.   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the
development of a district or geographical area in which there is a
proliferation of gambling and/or video lottery;
               c.   There are not substantial objections by property owners
within the immediate area of the proposed location;
               d.   There will be compliance with the parking provisions of
this section and any other off-street parking ordinance adopted by the city
which is applicable; and
               e.   There has been compliance with all other applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city and applicable statutes and regulations
of the state.
            2.   Prior to initiation and establishing a video lottery business,
the applicant must provide evidence of full compliance, to City Council with
all other ordinances and regulations of the city and applicable statutes and
regulations of the state.
            3.   A private club restaurant or private club video lottery shall
adhere to the following:
               a.   Be in compliance with W. Va. Code Ch. 60, State Control of
Alcoholic Liquors;
               b.   Be in compliance with Title 175, Legislative Rule, Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, Series 2 Private Club Licensing (175 CSR 2).
               c.   Be in compliance with §
1-5 shall be only authorized in private club restaurants within the municipal
boundaries of the city. All video lottery establishments shall be first
authorized by the Council of the city.
            4.   Prior to initiation and establishing a video lottery business,
the applicant must provide evidence of full compliance to the City Council with
all other ordinances and regulations of the city, and applicable statutes and
regulations of the state.
§ 9-315 SAME; BETTING.
   (A)   If any person at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or
other thing of value on any game of chance, or shall knowingly furnish any
money or other thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such
game, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall
be fined not less than $5 nor more than $300.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-5)
   (B)   If the keeper of a hotel or tavern permit unlawful gaming at his or
her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor, or other place appurtenant thereto
or held therewith, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100, and shall forfeit
his or her license.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-6)
   (C)   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in
any stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any
game or making a wager, shall cheat, or by fraudulent means win or acquire for
himself or herself, or another, money or any other valuable thing.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-9)
   (D)   POOLROOM, wherever used in this section, means any room where any pool
ticket, chance voucher, or certificate is sold entitling or purporting to
entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or other
thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prizefight, game
of chance, game of skill or science, or other sport or contest. No person shall
set up or promote, or be connected with or interested in, the management or
operation of any poolroom. The buying, selling, or transferring of tickets or
chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-10)
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote,
or be concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other
thing of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her
control; knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such
house, or to be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of
chance; knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or
share of a ticket in a lottery, or any writing, certificate, bill, token, or
other device purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person, or to
entitle him or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn
in a lottery. No person shall, for himself or herself, or any other person,
buy, sell, transfer, or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale
or with intent to exchange, negotiate, or transfer, or aid in selling,
exchanging, negotiating, or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a
ticket, in a lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token, or device.
However, this section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain type or form
of lottery or raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy” or “numbers.”
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-11) (Prior Code, § 9-315)
§ 9-316 VACANT LOTS AND TEMPORARY STRUCTURES USED FOR ENTERTAINMENT PURPOSES.
   No vacant lot, temporary structure of any kind, or lot or part of a lot
appurtenant to any building in the city shall be used, or permitted by the
owner or person in control thereof to be used, for any kind of amusement,
performance, singing, playing on musical or other instruments, dancing,
preaching, exhorting, or lecturing without first obtaining the consent in
writing of three-fourths of the resident housekeepers in the block where the
performance, or other such activity, is to be conducted, and in the block
confronting the same block, nor shall such activity be conducted after 10:00
p.m. or in a manner to disturb the peace or quiet of the neighborhood within
any of the blocks above mentioned; provided, that singing or playing on musical
instruments as a part of the performance connected with theatres, moving
picture shows, or open air concerts, when it does not disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood, may be permitted to continue on secular days and
while a part of such performance or concert until 11:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 9-316)
§ 9-317 WEARING MASKS, HOODS, OR FACE COVERINGS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood, or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway, or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby, or foyer open to, used by, or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained, or operated by the state or city;
      (4)   Ask, request, or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling, or place of business of any other person within this city;
or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another, unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained
from the owner or occupant thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood, or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood, or device in theatrical productions, including
use in Mardi Gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device prescribed for civil defense
drills, exercises, or emergencies;
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport; or
      (7)   Wearing a mask, or device for a medical- or health-related reason,
including pandemic.
(Prior Code, § 9-317)
§ 9-318 SPITTING.
   (A)   No person shall expectorate or spit in or upon any parking lot,
footpath, sidewalk, or other public place in the city, or in or upon any part
of any public vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or in or upon any part of
any public building under the control of the city, county, or state, or of the
Board of Education.
   (B)   The proprietors of public vehicles carrying passengers for hire shall
keep posted conspicuously, in each and every one of their cars and public
vehicles, notices forbidding such expectorating or spitting.
(Prior Code, § 9-318)
§ 9-319 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any street,
sidewalk, or parking lot accessible to the public or in any other place in
public view.
(Prior Code, § 9-319)
§ 9-320 RIOTS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   No person shall incite or participate in any riot, rout, or unlawful
assembly. For the purposes of this section, RIOT mean a public disturbance
involving:
      (1)   An act or acts of violence by one or more persons part of an
assemblage of three or more persons, which act or acts constitute a clear and
present danger of, or result in, damage or injury to the property of any other
person, or to the person of any other individual; or
      (2)   A threat or threats of the commission of an act or acts of violence
by one or more persons part of an assemblage of three or more persons acting,
individually or collectively, where the performance of the threatened act or
acts of violence would constitute a clear and present danger of, or would
result in, damage or injury to the property of any other person or to the
person of any other individual.
   (B)   (1)   For the purposes of this section, INCITE A RIOT means, but is
not limited to, urging or instigating other persons to riot, but shall not be
deemed to mean the mere oral or written advocacy of ideas or expression of
belief not involving advocacy of any act or acts of violence or assertion of
the rightness of, or the right to commit, any such act or acts.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, if three or more persons meet for
a purpose which, if executed, would make them rioters, and having done nothing
separate without carrying their purpose into effect, it is an unlawful
assembly; but if an unlawful assembly moves forward towards the execution of
its unlawful design, it become a rout; and if the design is carried into actual
execution, it constitutes a riot.
   (C)   Riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies shall be dispersed forthwith by
the city police, and all persons present at the scene of any riot, rout, or
unlawful assembly shall, upon command of any law enforcement officer, to
disperse forthwith and to obey such command, and peacefully disengage
themselves from such riot, rout, or unlawful assembly and leave the scene
thereof, and persons who fail to obey such command shall be subject to
immediate arrest.
(Prior Code, § 9-320)
§ 9-321 NOISE.
   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made by the use of any horn,
bell, radio, or loud speaker, or by the operation of any instrument or device,
any unreasonably loud, disturbing, and unreasonable noise of such a character,
intensity, and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of the community or
to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, and no person shall
willfully conduct himself or herself in a noisy, boisterous, or other
disorderly manner by either words or acts which disturb the good order and
quiet of the community.
(Prior Code, § 9-321)
§ 9-322 SMOKING IS PROHIBITED.
   Smoking shall not be permitted, and smoking areas shall not be designated in
those areas where smoking is prohibited by the Fire Chief, state statute,
ordinances, or regulations of the city or other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 9-322)
ARTICLE 4: FRAUD AND DECEIT
Section
   
9-400   Obtaining or attempting to obtain goods, property, or service by false
or fraudulent use of credit cards or other false or fraudulent means
   
9-401   Obtaining property in return for worthless check; making, issuing
worthless checks
   
9-402   Fraudulently obtaining food or lodging
   
9-403   Procuring gas, water, or electricity by device, with intent to defraud
§ 9-400 OBTAINING OR ATTEMPTING TO OBTAIN GOODS, PROPERTY, OR SERVICE BY FALSE
OR FRAUDULENT USE OF CREDIT CARDS OR OTHER FALSE OR FRAUDULENT MEANS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to obtain, or attempt to
obtain, any goods, property, or service of a value of less than $1,000 by use
of any false, fictitious, or counterfeit credit card, telephone number, credit
number, or other credit device; or by the use of any credit card, telephone
number, credit number, or other credit device of another beyond or without the
authority of the person to whom such card, number, or device was issued; or by
the use of any credit card, telephone number, credit number, or other credit
device in any case where such card, number, or device has been revoked, and
notice or revocation has been given to the person to whom issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to obtain, or attempt to
obtain, by the use of any fraudulent scheme, device, means, or method,
telephone or telegraph service or the transmission of a message, signed, or
other communication by telephone or telegraph, or over telephone or telegraph
facilities of a value of less than $200 with intent to avoid payment of charge
therefor.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-400)
§ 9-401 OBTAINING PROPERTY IN RETURN FOR WORTHLESS CHECK; MAKING, ISSUING
WORTHLESS CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any money, service,
goods, or other property or thing of value by means of a check, draft, or order
for the payment of money, or its equivalent, upon any bank or other depository,
knowing at the time of the making, drawing, issuing, uttering, or delivering of
such check, draft, or order that there is not sufficient funds on deposit in,
or credit with, such bank or other depository with which to pay the same upon
presentation. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this division (A),
if the amount of the check, draft, or order is less than $200, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, draw, issue, utter,
or deliver any check, draft, or order for the payment of money, or its
equivalent, upon any bank or other depository, knowing, or having reason to
know, there is not sufficient funds on deposit in, or credit with, such bank or
other depository with which to pay the same upon presentation.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate the provision of this division (B)
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
§ 9-402 FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINING FOOD OR LODGING.
   Every person who shall, at any hotel, motel, inn, eating, lodging, or
boarding house, or restaurant, receive, or cause to be furnished, any food or
accommodation, with intent to defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, motel,
inn, eating, lodging, or boarding house, or restaurant, and any person who
shall obtain credit at any hotel, motel, inn, eating, lodging, or boarding
house, or restaurant, by use of any false pretense or device, or by depositing
in such hotel, motel, inn, eating, lodging, or boarding house, or restaurant,
any baggage or property of less value than the amount of such credit, or of the
bill by such person incurred, with such fraudulent intent, and any person who,
after obtaining credit or accommodation at any hotel, motel, inn, eating,
lodging, or boarding house, or restaurant, shall abscond from such hotel,
motel, inn, eating, lodging, or boarding house, or restaurant, or shall remove,
or attempt to remove, therefrom any baggage or personal property of any kind
subject to the lien provided in W. Va. Code § 38-2-5, with intent to defraud
the owner or keeper of such hotel, motel, inn, eating, lodging, or boarding
house, or restaurant, without first having paid, satisfied, or arranged all
claims or bills for lodging, entertainment, or accommodation, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-402)
§ 9-403 PROCURING GAS, WATER, OR ELECTRICITY BY DEVICE, WITH INTENT TO DEFRAUD.
   Every person who, with intent to injure or defraud, procures, makes, or
causes to be made, any pipe, tube, wire, or other conductor of gas, water, or
electric energy, and connects the same, or causes it to be connected with any
main, service pipe, or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas or water, or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water, or electric energy to any lamp, burner, orifice, or any other
device, by or at which gas, water, or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water, or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and every person who, with like intent, injures
or alters any gas, water, or electric meter, or obstructs its action, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-403)
ARTICLE 5: NUISANCES
Section
   
9-500   Definitions
   
9-501   Duty of police officers
   
9-502   Maintenance of premises
   
9-503   Inspection, investigations, and complaints; enforcement officer
   
9-504   Right to enter private premises; duty of occupants
   
9-505   Notice to abate; appeal
   
9-506   Committing or maintaining a nuisance
   
9-507   Recourse of municipality when notice to abate nuisance is ignored
   
9-508   Responsibility of property owners, occupants, and others
   
9-509   Notice to property owners prior to removal by municipality of an
abandoned or junk vehicle
   
9-510   Nuisances prohibited
   
9-511   Creation of nuisance prohibited
   
9-512   Public nuisances
   
9-513   Smoke, soot, cinders, and the like
   
9-514   Collection of, or burning of, leaves or other matter in public streets
   
9-515   Depositing grass clippings and other similar detritus into the public
streets
   
9-516   Unauthorized use of sirens and other emergency type whistles of similar
impact
   9-517   Shall not block streets, sidewalks, lanes, rights-of-way
   
9-517(A)   Yard, garage sales, unauthorized sales prohibited
   
9-517(B)   Flea markets
   
9-518   Removal of abandoned, duplicated poles, wires, or cables
§ 9-500 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. In addition to those definitions provided by state codes, local
ordinances, and case law, the term ABANDONED means and refers to any item which
has ceased to be used for its designated and intended purpose. The following
factors are among others, and will be considered in determining whether or not
an item has been ABANDONED:
      (1)   Present operability and functional utility;
      (2)   The date of last effective use;
      (3)   The condition of disrepair or damage;
      (4)   The last time an effort was made to repair or rehabilitate the
item;
      (5)   The status of registration or licensing of the item;
      (6)   The age and degree of obsolescence;
      (7)   The cost of rehabilitation or repair of the item versus its market
value; and
      (8)   The nature of the area and location of the item.
   ABATE. To repair, replace, remove, destroy, demolish, or otherwise remedy
the condition in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an
extent as the Enforcement Officer, in his or her judgment, shall determine is
necessary in the interest of the general health, safety, and welfare of the
community.
   ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE. Any condition, instrument, or machine which is unsafe,
unprotected, and may prove detrimental to children, whether in a building, on
the premises of a building, or on an unoccupied lot. This includes any
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, or excavations; abandoned refrigerators and
motor vehicles; any structurally unsound fences or structures; or any lumber,
trash, fences, debris, or vegetation which may prove hazarders or dangerous to
inquisitive minors.
   DEBRIS/REFUSE/BRUSH.
      (1)   BRUSH is yard clippings, leaves, branches, and other such matter.
      (2)   DEBRIS is the scattered remains of something broken or destroyed,
and ruins. It shall also include waste building materials, bricks, concrete
blocks, and other matter.
      (3)   REFUSE is all solid waste, including garbage, paper, cardboard, tin
cans, wood, glass, and liquid petroleum waste, such as motor oil and other such
similar items.
   DISMANTLED. That from which essential equipment, parts, or contents have
been removed or stripped, and the outward appearance verifies the removal.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Building Inspector, or
City Engineer and if there is one, the City Health Officer, or their designated
representative, or as appointed by Council.
   GARBAGE/UNSANITARY MATTER. Decomposed animal and vegetable wastes resulting
from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   INOPERATIVE. Incapable of functioning or producing activity for mechanical
or other reasons.
   LIEN-HOLDER. Any person, as defined in this article, who has a recorded
interest in real property, including mortgagee, beneficiary under deed of
trust, or other recorded liens or claims of interest in real property.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence.
      (2)   A thing or act, committed or permitted, failure to act, occupation,
or use of property which:
         (a)   Shall annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of any number of persons;
         (b)   Shall offend the public decency;
         (c)   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct, or tend to obstruct
or render dangerous for passage any public park, public playground, street,
alley, or highway; or
         (d)   Shall in any way render any number of persons insecure in life
or in the use and enjoyment of their property.
   OWNER. The registered owner of a vehicle, the person(s) to whom property tax
is assessed on real or personal property, as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county, renter(s), lessee, and other occupants residing
permanently or temporarily on property.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver, or any other
entity.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land, or portions of
land, whether improved or unimproved, occupied or unoccupied, including
adjacent streets, sidewalks, parkways, and parking strips.
   PROPERTY. Any real property including, but not limited to, land, lot, or
parcel of land, or any hereditament held by any owner, and shall include any
alley, sidewalk, parkway, or unimproved public easement abutting such real
property, lot, or parcel of land.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, built, or planted upon, any edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner, which structure requires
location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground, including fences, gates, garages, carports, swimming and wading pools,
patios, outdoor areas, paved areas, walks, tennis courts, and similar
recreation areas.
   WRECKED. That which has the outward manifestation or appearance of damage to
parts and contents which are essential to operation.
(Prior Code, § 9-500)
§ 9-501 DUTY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers to observe the sanitary
condition of the city, and through the Chief of Police, to report to the Mayor
and City Council promptly any nuisance or accumulation of filth found to exist
in any portion of the city requiring their action.
(Prior Code, § 9-501)
§ 9-502 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   No person owning or in possession of any lot, house, building, or enclosure
shall allow or suffer to exist in or upon such premises any violation as
defined in this article. The lack of knowledge of the violation on the part of
the owner shall not exempt the owner from responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 9-502)
§ 9-503 INSPECTION, INVESTIGATIONS, AND COMPLAINTS; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Enforcement Officer, or his or her designated representative(s), shall
cause inspections to be made from time to time within the municipality, and
when they deem it in the best interest of the municipality so to do, within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the municipality as provided, determine
whether any condition exists or activity is being practiced which constitutes a
nuisance; and each such officer shall cause an investigation to be made upon
written complaint made by any responsible person. In the absence of the City
Health Officer, any public Health Officer having jurisdiction within the
municipality is hereby vested with authority conferred by this article on a
City Health Officer, and he or she may exercise such authority when authorized
to do so by his or her superiors.
(Prior Code, § 9-503)
§ 9-504 RIGHT TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES; DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   Enforcement officers shall have the right to enter upon private premises for
the purposes specified in this article upon proper identification and in
compliance with all applicable provisions of law. Unless it appears probable
that advanced warning would defeat the purpose of such entry, occupants of
premises to be entered shall be given reasonable notice in advance, and in any
case, no owner or occupant shall prevent such entry which is sought to be made
in compliance with law. If advanced notice is not given, a search warrant from
applicable court having jurisdiction is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-504)
§ 9-505 NOTICE TO ABATE; APPEAL.
   (A)   If, at any time, an enforcement officer, Mayor, or City Recorder, upon
receiving and verifying a complaint, shall find that a condition which
constitutes a nuisance exists within the municipality or within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the municipality, as provided, he or she may,
for the first offense, give notice, in writing, to the owner, occupant, or
person in charge of the premises upon which such condition exists, stating
therein the condition which constitutes a nuisance; directing such addressee to
remedy the condition within the time stated in such notice, which shall not be
more than seven days; and no such owner, occupant, or person in charge shall
fail to comply with the terms of such notice. If, however, the owner, occupant,
or person in charge of such property, after receiving notice to abate, wishes
to challenge the notice, they must do so in writing to the Municipal Court not
less than ten days after receipt of such notice. Ordinarily, the Municipal
Judge will render a decision within ten calendar days from the date of a
hearing.
   (B)   If, after receiving the challenge, just cause is found to suspend the
notice to abate, an order will be issued to both the enforcement officer and
property owner, occupant, or person in charge stating the reason and what
action, if any, is necessary to comply. If, after reviewing the challenge of
notice to abate, there is no just cause to suspend the action, the original
date to abate shall stand without question, and notice will be given, in
writing, to the person challenging the notice and the enforcement officer,
Mayor, or City Clerk.
   (C)   If, during the course of inspection of a property, the enforcement
officer finds an imminent hazard to health or public safety, or the welfare of
the public, or any person within or near the premises upon which such nuisance
exists, the situation will be remedied without question, by means necessary,
without an appeal period.
   (D)   Failure to comply with a notice to abate by the date of remedy shall,
for each day, constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   For any second or subsequent offense for committing or maintaining a
nuisance, a citation or summons shall be issued.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be considered to prohibit any police
officer from arresting or issuing a citation to any person for committing or
maintaining a nuisance when such arrest is made pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 9-505)
§ 9-506 COMMITTING OR MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be considered to prohibit any police officer
from arresting or issuing a citation to any person for committing or
maintaining a nuisance when such arrest is made pursuant to law.
(Prior Code, § 9-506)
§ 9-507 RECOURSE OF MUNICIPALITY WHEN NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE IS IGNORED.
   (A)   Upon failure of any person to whom notice has been given pursuant to
this article to comply with the terms of such notice, the enforcement officer
or Mayor may forthwith direct the appropriate municipal officer or employee to
remedy the condition which is the subject of such notice if an emergency or
danger exists, and expense incurred by the municipality in so doing shall be
charged to the addressee of such notice, as well as to the owner of the
premises which is the subject of such notice, jointly and severally, to be
collected as municipal taxes, or in any other manner authorized by law for the
collection of money due to the municipality.
   (B)   If in the opinion of the court the nuisance is unsafe, unsanitary,
dangerous, unsightly, or detrimental to the public welfare, the court shall
enter an order permitting the Mayor to forthwith direct the appropriate
employee or other individual to remedy the condition which is the subject of
such complaint. Furthermore, any expense incurred by the municipality in so
doing shall be charged to the addressee of such notice, as well as to the owner
of the premises which is the subject of such notice, jointly and severally, to
be collected as municipal taxes or in any other manner authorized by law for
the collection of money due to the municipality.
   (C)   Abatement by the municipality of any condition which constitutes a
nuisance and reimbursement of the municipality of expenses incurred thereby
shall not prevent prosecution for maintenance of a nuisance.
   (D)   The municipality will prosecute the responsible party for failure to
comply with the notice to abate and for the violation itself.
(Prior Code, § 9-507)
§ 9-508 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS, OCCUPANTS, AND OTHERS.
   Each owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or person in charge of any real
property within the municipality, or at any place beyond the corporate limits
of municipality over which the municipality has right-of-way, and each agent or
representative of any such person, is hereby charged with responsibility for
the maintenance and use of such real property in such manner that no use of, or
activity or condition upon or within such real property shall constitute a
nuisance; and all such persons are hereby charged with the duty of observing
all of the provisions of this article, but such responsibility to commit or
maintain any nuisance upon or within any real property in the municipality or
property outside the corporate limits of the municipality over which the
municipality has a right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-508)
§ 9-509 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS PRIOR TO REMOVAL BY MUNICIPALITY OF AN
ABANDONED OR JUNK VEHICLE.
   Prior to taking any abandoned or junked motor vehicle into custody and
possession from private property, the municipality shall give the private
property owner and the owner of said motor vehicle, if that person is
ascertainable, 30 days’ notice by registered or certified mail, or service of
process, that such action will be taken unless the said motor vehicle is
restored to a functional use.
(Prior Code, § 9-509)
§ 9-510 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, harbor, commit, or maintain,
or to suffer to be caused, harbored, committed, or maintained any nuisance as
defined by the statute or common law of this state, or as defined by this code
or other ordinance of the city, at any place within the city, or at any place
within the area surrounding the city and within one mile of the city limits
when such nuisance constitutes a hazard to the health, safety, or good order of
the city or its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 9-510)
§ 9-511 CREATION OF NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance on his or her lot
or a lot occupied by him or her, or to allow a nuisance to remain on his or her
lot or a lot occupied by him or her. Dead animals, stagnant water, decayed
vegetables and fruits, and filthy privies and stables causing an offensive
odor, or anything that causes injury or damage to the health or life of any
other person, is declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-511)
§ 9-512 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following are hereby defined as public nuisances affecting the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city and are hereby prohibited:
   (A)   Act done or committed. Prohibited any act done, or committed or aided
or assisted to be done or committed by any person, or any substance, being, or
thing kept, maintained, placed, or found in or upon public or private place,
which is injurious or dangerous to the public health or safety;
   (B)   Buildings, bridges, structures. Prohibited all buildings, bridges, or
other structures of whatever character kept or maintained, or which are
permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be kept or
maintained, in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, or injurious to the
public;
   (C)   Trees and appendages. Prohibited all trees and other appendages of, or
to realty kept or maintained, or which are permitted by any person owning or
having control thereof to be kept or maintained, in a condition unsafe,
dangerous, unhealthy, or injurious to the public;
   (D)   Stagnant water. Prohibited all ponds or pools of stagnant water, and
all foul or dirty water or liquid when discharged through any drain pipe or
spout, or thrown into or upon any street, public place, or lot;
   (E)   Obstructions. Prohibited all obstructions caused or permitted on any
street or sidewalk to the danger or annoyance of the public; all stones,
rubbish, dirt, filth slops, vegetable matter, or other article thrown or placed
by any person on or in any street, sidewalk, or other public place;
   (F)   Unsafe sidewalks. Prohibited all sidewalks, gutters, or curbstones
permitted to remain in an unsafe condition or out of repair;
   (G)   Places animals kept. Prohibited all stables, cattle yards, hog, sheep,
or cow pens, or other places where animals are kept, or yard for poultry,
permitted by the owner thereof or the person responsible therefor, and where
permitted by ordinance, to be in such condition as to become offensive,
annoying, or injurious to the public;
   (H)   Explosive storage. Prohibited all houses, buildings, structures, or
enclosures used for storage of power, dynamite, or other explosive or highly
flammable substance or gases, except those maintained pursuant to permit issued
by competent authority;
   (I)   Litter, trash, garbage. Prohibited any litter, trash, garbage, or
refuse, or any unlicensed motor vehicle, tractor, lawn mower, or any part
thereof in an inoperative condition;
   (J)   Grass, weeds, brush. Prohibited any offensive substance or growth of
grass, weeds, or brush upon any lot or parcel of ground;
   (K)   Pools or vessels of stagnant water. Prohibited all pools of stagnant
water or vessels holding stagnant water in which mosquitoes or other insects
can breed;
   (L)   Potential breeding places. Prohibited any carcasses of animals not
buried or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after
death. Accumulation of manure, rubbish, litter, trash, rubble, refuse, debris,
paper, combustible materials, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form
which is uncared for, discarded, or abandoned, or improperly stacked building
materials, all of which are potential breeding placed for flies, mosquitoes, or
other vermin;
   (M)   Septic tanks or sewer lines. Prohibited any leaking septic tanks or
sewer lines, or other sewer existing in an unsanitary manner and which could
cause disease transmissions;
   (N)   Rank growth.
      (1)   Prohibited any grass, weeds, and rank growth of vegetation which:
         (a)   Every owner or occupier of any lot, tract, or parcel of land
within the municipal boundaries of the city, as the same may be adjusted from
time to time in the fashion provided by law, to cause the grass and weeds
growing thereon to be cut whenever said grass or weeds shall have grown to a
height in excess of eight inches from the ground, when measured as nearly
perpendicularly to the ground as is reasonably possible, and at all times to
keep and maintain all such grass and weeds at a height of less than eight
inches from the ground, when measured as nearly perpendicularly to the ground
as is reasonably possible;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant noxious odors; and/or
         (e)   Constitutes a fire hazard.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this division
(N) shall be guilty of a nuisance, and shall be fined for a first offense not
less than $75 or more than $200. For a second offense, he, she, or they shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. For a third and subsequent
offense, he, she, or they shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than
$1,000. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (O)   Fire and decay damage. Prohibited all buildings, walls, and other
structures which have been damaged by fire, decay, or otherwise, and which
endanger the health, peace, and safety of the general public;
   (P)   Industrial waste. Prohibited any solid or industrial waste, including,
but not limited to, garbage, tin cans, bottles, rubbish, refuse, trash,
construction waste or demolition waste, tree trimmings, or manufacturing waste
or industrial waste dumped, thrown, burned, spilled, or abandoned, except such
waste disposed of lawfully in a landfill or permitted incinerator;
   (Q)   Unsanitary animal conditions. Prohibited any animal or animals kept or
maintained in an unsanitary condition or surroundings;
   (R)   Obnoxious odors. Prohibited any disagreeable or obnoxious odors and
stenches, as well as substances, causes, or conditions which give rise to the
emission or generation of such odors or stenches;
   (S)   Unlawful activity. Prohibited any building, structure, or other place
or location where any activity which is in violation of law is conducted,
performed, or maintained;
   (T)   Fire hazard. Prohibited the maintenance of any items or the overall
condition of the property which creates, or tends to create, a fire hazard or
fire menace;
   (U)   Obstructing clear view. Prohibited all trees, hedges, signs, or other
obstructions, or any portion of same, so located as to prevent persons driving
vehicles approaching an intersection of streets from having a clear, safe view
of traffic approaching such intersection;
   (V)   Growth over public road, sidewalk. Prohibited all limbs of trees or
other plants which project over a public road which are less than 13 feet and
six inches, and over a public sidewalk less than nine feet above the surface of
said road, or protrude upon the sidewalk and hinder travel;
   (W)   Blown trash. Prohibited any property that is in such condition that it
allows, permits, or creates rubbish, debris, or other personal property to be
blown on or across a public roadway;
   (X)   Loud noises. Prohibited all loud or unusual noises and annoying
vibrations which offend the peace and quiet of persons of ordinary
sensibilities;
   (Y)   Abandoned objects. Prohibited all abandoned, dismantled, wrecked,
inoperable, unlicensed, and discarded objects, equipment, or appliances such
as, but not limited to, vehicles, boats, water heaters, refrigerators,
furniture which is not designed for outdoor use, household fixtures, machinery,
equipment, cans, or containers standing or stored on property, or on sidewalks
or streets, which can be viewed from a public street or walkway, alley, or
other public property, and which items are readily accessible from such places,
or which are stored on private property in violation of any other law or
ordinance; and
   (Z)   Detrimental or fire hazard; other nuisances. Prohibited any
putrescibles, garbage, rubbish, refuse, or recyclable items which have not been
recycled within 30 days of being deposited on the property which are determined
by an Enforcement Officer to constitute a fire hazard or to be detrimental to
human life, health, or safety:
      (1)   Fire or environmental health. Prohibited any oil, grease, paint,
other petroleum products, hazardous materials, volatile chemicals, pesticides,
herbicides, fungicides, or waste (solid, liquid, or gaseous) which is
determined by an enforcement officer to constitute a fire or environmental
hazard, or to be determined to human life, health, or safety;
      (2)   Stored materials. Prohibited any lumber (excluding lumber for a
construction project on the property with a valid permit), salvage materials,
including, but not limited to, auto parts, scrap metal, tires, and other
materials stored on premises in excess of 72 hours and visible from a public
street, walkway, alley, or other public property;
      (3)   Receptacles. Prohibited any receptacles for discarded materials and
recyclables which are left in the front yard following the day of the regularly
scheduled refuse pick up for the property;
      (4)   Abandoned pool, pond, and spa. Prohibited any swimming pool, pond,
spa, other body of water, or excavation which is abandoned, unattended,
unsanitary, empty, which is not securely fenced, or which is determined by the
enforcement officer to be detrimental to life, health, or safety;
      (5)   Dilapidation, deterioration, decay. Prohibited any premises which
detrimentally impacts the surrounding neighborhood because of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay, or is unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used, or is not secured or is improperly secured;
      (6)   Injurious or annoyance. Prohibited any condition on a property
which meets the requirements of divisions (Z)(6)(a) and (Z)(6)(b) below:
         (a)   Is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property; and
         (b)   Affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.
      (7)   Loudspeakers, or amplifiers on vehicles. The use of any mechanical
loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks, airplanes, or other vehicles for
advertising or other purposes, except by special permission of the Mayor;
      (8)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any
performance or event, show, sale, or display, or advertisement of merchandise,
by the creation of noise;
      (9)   Bells or gongs. The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any
building or premises which disturb the quiet or repose of any person in the
vicinity thereof; and/or
      (10)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The playing of any radio,
phonograph, piccolo, or any musical instrument in such manner or with such
volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in
any dwelling, hotel, or other residence.
(Prior Code, § 9-512)
§ 9-513 SMOKE, SOOT, CINDERS, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the escape of such
quantities of dense smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, or gases as to
be detrimental to or to endanger the health, comfort, and safety of the public,
or so as to cause, or have a tendency to cause injury or damage to property or
business.
(Prior Code, § 9-513)
§ 9-514 COLLECTION OF, OR BURNING OF, LEAVES OR OTHER MATTER IN PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to collect and pile leaves and brush in the city
streets. It shall be unlawful to burn leaves or other matter in the city
streets.
(Prior Code, § 9-514)
§ 9-515 DEPOSITING GRASS CLIPPINGS AND OTHER SIMILAR DETRITUS INTO THE PUBLIC
STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person in control of any
property within the corporate limits of the city to throw, deposit, or permit
to be thrown or deposited, into the right-of-way of any public street of the
city any grass clippings or other similar detritus for the purpose, or with the
effect, of clogging the storm sewers of the city and the intake outlets
thereof, and a violation hereof shall be punishable in accordance with the
general law.
   (B)   Upon conviction, there shall be taxed, as a part of the costs of any
proceeding to determine the violation of this provision of the city code, the
reasonable costs of cleaning out any storm sewer or intake outlet thereof
clogged or obstructed in any fashion by activity constituting a violation
hereof; provided, however, that in no event shall any sum less than $6 be taxed
as a part of the costs of such suit for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9-515)
§ 9-516 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF SIRENS AND OTHER EMERGENCY TYPE WHISTLES OF SIMILAR
IMPACT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sound, blow, or cause to be sounded
or blown any siren or other emergency type whistle of similar impact upon the
public from any place, either inside the corporate limits of the city or
without the corporate limits of the city, where the same may be heard within
such limits, unless such person shall be the authorized driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle as defined in the Code of West Virginia, as amended, or a
member of the Volunteer Fire Department engaged in the performance of his or
her duties as such.
(Prior Code, § 9-516)
§ 9-517 SHALL NOT BLOCK STREETS, SIDEWALKS, LANES, RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No person shall accumulate or store construction or building material, items
for sale, display, storage, parked, or any other item otherwise on any street,
sidewalk, lane, or right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-517)
§ 9-517(A) YARD, GARAGE SALES, UNAUTHORIZED SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by
an individual or members of his or her residence, and acquired in the normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise
which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
      YARD SALE. All general sales, open to the public, conducted from or on a
residential premises in any residential area, for the purpose of disposing of
personal property including, but not limited to, all sales entitled “garage,”
“lawn,” “yard,” “attic,” “porch,” “room,” “backyard,” “patio,” “flea market,”
or “rummage” sale.
   (B)   Number and hours of sales permitted.
      (1)   No more than two yard sales shall be held at any residence and/or
family household, or by any individual or entity during a calendar year. If
members of more than one residence join in such sale, then such sale shall be
considered as having occurred at all such residences.
      (2)   In addition to the above two such sales, in division (B)(1) above,
an individual residence or family household shall be permitted to participate
in one neighborhood yard sale per calendar year. A NEIGHBORHOOD YARD SALE shall
be defined as any yard sale held by and at multiple adjoining or nearby
residences, and promoted or advertised as a neighborhood, street, or community
sale.
      (3)   Such yard sales shall be limited in time to no more than the
daylight hours and three consecutive days. No such sale shall be conducted on
Sunday.
   (C)   Property permitted to be sold. It shall be unlawful for any individual
to sell or offer for sale, under authority granted by this article, property
other than personal property.
   (D)   Display of sale property. Personal property offered for sale may be
displayed within the residence in a yard, garage, carport, and/or in a private
driveway. No personal property offered for sale at such a sale shall be
displayed in any public right-of way.
   (E)   Advertising; signs.
      (1)   Two signs of not more than six square feet each shall be permitted
to be displayed on the property of the residence where the sale is being
conducted.
      (2)   Two signs of not more than four square feet each shall be
permitted, provided written permission to erect said signs is received from the
property owners upon whose property such signs are to be placed.
      (3)   No sign or other form of advertisement shall be exhibited for more
than two days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
      (4)   Signs shall be removed at the end of the sale.
      (5)   No signs shall be placed in any city right-of-way, or on or
attached to any utility poles, street signs, or traffic control signs.
   (F)   Public nuisance.
      (1)   The individual(s) conducting the sale, and the owner(s) or tenant
(s) of the premises on which such sale or activity is conducted, shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum
on the premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such individual
shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct on said premises, nor permit
vehicles to impede the passage of traffic on any roads or streets in the area
of such premises. All such individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any
member of the Police or Fire Department of the city in order to maintain the
public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   The City Police Department or the City Mayor has the right to
enjoin immediately any yard sale operating in violation of this article or
causing a nuisance to the city.
   (G)   Parking. All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with
all applicable laws and ordinances. Further, the Police Department may enforce
such temporary controls to alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion
created by any such sale.
   (H)   Persons and sales exempted. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to or affect the following:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
      (3)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile, or other business
establishment, from or at a place of business where such sale would be
permitted, or any other sale conducted by a manufacturer, dealer, or vendor;
and
      (4)   Any bona fide charitable, educational, cultural, or governmental
institution or organization when the proceeds from the sale are used directly
for the institution’s or the organization’s charitable purposes, and the goods
or articles are not sold on a consignment basis.
   (I)   Notification to city. Prior to any yard sale, person or persons
conducting said sale shall notify the City Police Department or the City
Recorder of the date and place of sale.
   (J)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than $50 nor more than $250 for each offense.
      (2)   Anyone who violates this section by failing to remove any sale sign
(s) as required herein shall be fined $25 for each such sign.
      (3)   Each day a portion of this section is violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-517(A))
§ 9-517(B) FLEA MARKETS.
   (A)   FLEA MARKET shall mean an open-air market for the sale of new and/or
secondhand articles and goods by one or more merchants, which is conducted on
an open, non-residential lot.
      (1)   Flea markets shall be permitted uses only in non-residential areas,
or as conditional uses in the business areas.
      (2)   The sale of animals is prohibited in any flea market, including,
but not limited to, reptiles, birds, felines, and canines.
      (3)   Flea market operators must have the appropriate business licenses
and permits. Flea markets shall comply at all times with all state and local
law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Health Department
regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $250 for each offense.
      (2)   Anyone who violates this section by failing to remove any sale sign
(s), as required herein, shall be fined $25 for each such sign.
      (3)   Each day a portion of this section is violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (4)   The City Police Department or the City Mayor has the right to
enjoin immediately any flea market operating in violation of this section or
causing a nuisance to the city.
   (C)   Prior to any flea market, person or persons conducting said sale shall
notify the City Police Department or City Recorder of the date and place of the
sale.
(Prior Code, § 9-517(B))
§ 9-518 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, DUPLICATED POLES, WIRE, OR CABLE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS or DAMAGED POLE. Any utility pole that is structurally
compromised due to weather, a traffic incident, and/or age, and poses a
potential threat to public safety.
      DOUBLE POLE. Any utility pole which is attached or in close proximity to
a new utility pole.
      PLANT. The cables, terminals, conductors, and other fixtures necessary
for transmitting electrical, telephone, cable television, or other
telecommunications service.
      UTILITY POLE. A column or post used to support service lines for public
utility.
   (B)   Dangerous poles. Whenever a pole shall, on the judgment of the Mayor
or Maintenance Supervisor, become a menace to persons or property, or shall
interfere with any municipal work, or with the operation of any municipal
construction, it shall be removed, and a new pole may be substituted therefor.
Such pole shall be removed within five days after notice, unless it is an
imminent danger to persons or property which then shall be removed at once.
   (C)   Removal of abandoned poles. Every pole, when no longer used for
service, shall be taken down
and removed from the street immediately upon abandonment. Upon application,
time may be extended by Council for a period of up to one year.
   (D)   Double pole. A written notice shall be given to the public utility,
which has the top plant on the double pole, that the plant must be removed
within 30 days or be subject to a penalty. Upon removal of each plant on the
pole, notice shall be given to the subsequent plant on the pole that the plant
must be removed within 30 days. The last utility to remove its plant is
responsible for removing the double pole within an additional 30 days.
   (E)   Abandoned wires or cables. All abandoned wires or cables attached to a
pole which shall become disused or abandoned in, or over or upon, any street
shall be forthwith removed by the owner or proprietor of such pole, wire, or
cable immediately upon such abandonment.
   (F)   Penalties for offenses. Any person convicted of a violation of any
provisions of this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250
nor more than $1,000. Each day such violation continues shall be a counted a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-518)
ARTICLE 6: SANITATION
   [Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 9: Nuisances, Sanitation, Offenses, General, and Miscellaneous,
Article 6, Sanitation moved to Chapter 11: Public Works, Article 3, Solid
Waste.
ARTICLE 7: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
9-700   Courtesy, and the like, due to and from municipal employees
   
9-701   Public officers and employees; obstructing officer
   
9-702   Same; refusal to aid officer
   
9-703   Same; interference, and the like, with police officers
   
9-704   Same; impersonating
   
9-705   Obstructing or giving false information to an officer; fleeing
   
9-706   False fire alarm
   
9-707   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
9-708   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
9-709   Attempts
   
9-710   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
9-711   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
9-712   False report
   
9-713   False swearing
§ 9-700 COURTESY, AND THE LIKE, DUE TO AND FROM MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Municipal officers and employees shall be courteous in their official
transactions with the public, and they shall conduct themselves in the
performance of official duties so as not to deprive any person, at the time and
under the circumstances existing then and there, of any lawful right or benefit
to which such person is entitled. Any person who feels aggrieved by the conduct
of any municipal officer or employee is hereby invited to bring the matter to
the attention of such officer’s or employee’s department head or to the Mayor,
without prejudice to any other recourse to which such aggrieved person may be
entitled.
   (B)   Members of the public, in turn, should be courteous in their
transactions with municipal officers and employees, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to knowingly taunt, deride, jeer, or otherwise insult or debase,
whether by act, word, or gesture, any municipal officer or employee at any time
or place while such officer or employee is lawfully engaged in the performance
of any official duty.
(Prior Code, § 9-700)
§ 9-701 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; OBSTRUCTING OFFICER.
   Any person who, by threats, menacing acts, or otherwise, shall forcibly or
illegally hinder, obstruct, or oppose, or attempt to hinder, obstruct, or
oppose, or shall counsel, advise, or invite others to hinder, obstruct, or
oppose any officer of this city in the lawful exercise or discharge of such
officer’s official duty shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-701)
§ 9-702 SAME; REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   Any person who shall, on being required by an officer, refuse or neglect to
assist such officer in the execution of the office in a criminal case, or in
the preservation of the peace, or the apprehending or securing of any person
for a breach of the peace, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-702)
§ 9-703 SAME; INTERFERENCE, AND THE LIKE, WITH POLICE OFFICERS.
   Any person who shall, at any time, intercept, molest, or interfere with any
police officer while on duty, or any person then under the charge and direction
of an officer while on duty, or who knowingly gives false or misleading
information to a member of the Police Department, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-703)
§ 9-704 SAME; IMPERSONATING.
   (A)   No person shall falsely represent such person’s self to be an officer
or employee of the city, or, without proper authority, wear or display any
uniform, insignia, or credential which identifies any city officer or employee.
   (B)   No person without proper authority shall assume to act as an officer
or employee of the city, whether to gain access to the premises, obtain
information, perpetrate fraud, or any other purpose.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prevent a private citizen from
making a lawful citizen’s arrest when a violation is committed in such
citizen’s presence.
(Prior Code, § 9-704)
§ 9-705 OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO AN OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall, by threats, menaces, and acts, or otherwise forcibly
or illegally hinder or obstruct, or attempt to hinder or obstruct, any law
enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting in his or her
official capacity.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   No person shall, with intent to impede or obstruct a law
enforcement officer in the conduct of an investigation of a felony offense,
knowingly and willfully make a materially false statement.
         (b)   Provided, that the provisions of division (B)(1)(a) above shall
not apply to statements made by a spouse, parent, stepparent, grandparent,
sibling, half-sibling, child, stepchild, or grandchild, whether related by
blood or marriage, of the person under investigation.
      (2)   Statements made by the person under investigation may not be used
as the basis for prosecution under this division (B). For the purposes of this
division (B), LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall not include watchman, state police,
or college security personnel.
   (C)   No person shall intentionally flee, or attempt to flee, by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from any law enforcement officer, probation
officer, or parole officer acting in his or her official capacity who is
attempting to make a lawful arrest of the person, and who knows or reasonably
believes that the officer is attempting to arrest him or her.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall intentionally flee, or attempt to flee, in a
vehicle from any law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer
acting in his or her official capacity, after the officer has given a clear
visual or audible signal directing the person to stop.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (D), VEHICLE includes any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle, or snowmobile, as those
terms are defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-1, whether or not it is being operated
on a public highway at the time, and whether or not it is licensed by the
state.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (D), FLEE and FLEEING do not
include any person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing the
pursuing law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer to
maintain appropriate surveillance, for the purpose of complying with the
officer’s direction to stop.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
   (E)   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order,
direction, or signal of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-705)
§ 9-706 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall make, turn in, or telephone, or by use of any means or
methods of communication aid or abet in the making or turning in of, any alarm
of fire which he or she knows to be false at the time of making or turning in
the alarm.
(W. Va. Code § 15A-10-20) (Prior Code, § 9-706)
§ 9-707 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall impart or convey, or cause to be imparted or conveyed,
any false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under, or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane, or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being
made, or to be made, to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive
device.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of division (A) above for a second offense, or
whose violation of division (A) above results in another suffering serious
bodily injury, shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17) (Prior Code, § 9-707)
§ 9-708 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official, or be under the order or
direction of any such person. No person not a law enforcement officer or law
enforcement official shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the
badge or other insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to
deceive another person.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-29-
1, except that such terms shall not include members of the State Division of
Public Safety, and shall not include individuals hired by non-public entities
for the provision of security services.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (B)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the city, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties,
functions, or powers of a municipal officer. No person not a member of the Fire
Department, for the purpose of such false representation, shall wear a uniform,
or part thereof similar to the uniform, worn by a member of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-708)
§ 9-709 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
9-17 if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W. Va. Code § 61-11-8) (Prior Code, § 9-709)
§ 9-710 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided, that the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself or herself, or others; and
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to §
9-107.
   (B)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (C)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation, or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue. When a physical arrest is made
and a citation is issued in relation to the same offense, the officer shall
mark on the citation, in the place specified for court appearance date, the
word “arrested” in lieu of the date of court appearance.
(W. Va. Code § 62-1-5a) (Prior Code, § 9-710)
§ 9-711 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when, knowing the
information reported, conveyed, or circulated is false or baseless, he or she:
   (A)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of, or impending
occurrence of, a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or
other emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result, or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles, or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
   (B)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official agency
or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies involving
danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending occurrence of a
fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or other emergency in
which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will result, or that
firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue vehicles, or
other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur, does not in
fact exist;
   (C)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged occurrence
of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur, or an allegedly
impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact about to
occur, or false information relating to an actual offense or incident, or to
the alleged implication of some person therein; or
   (D)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm system,
or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue vehicles,
or other emergency vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-20) (Prior Code, § 9-711)
§ 9-712 FALSE REPORT.
   No person shall make or give a false report or false information to any
police or fire officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-712)
§ 9-713 FALSE SWEARING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully swear falsely, under an
oath or affirmation lawfully administered, on any occasion concerning any
municipal matter or thing, material or not material, or to procure another
person to do so.
(Prior Code, § 9-713)
CHAPTER 10: PLANNING AND ZONING
   Article
      
1.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
2.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
3.    SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
4.   ZONING
      
5.   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
6.   ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
10-1   Planning Commission authorized; statement of objectives
   
10-2   Continuation of existing Planning Commission
   
10-3   Definitions
   
10-4   Municipal Planning Commission; generally
   
10-5   Advisory members
   
10-6   Regular and special meetings
   
10-7   Quorum
   
10-8   Offices; appropriation for expenses
   
10-9   Election of officers
   
10-10   Appointment, duties, and compensation for Secretary and employees;
special and temporary services; legal assistance
   
10-11   Administrative powers and authority
   
10-12   Expenditures; disposition of gifts; participation in federal planning
assistance programs
§ 10-1 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORIZED; STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.
   The City Council, in order to promote the orderly development of the
community, hereby establishes a municipal planning commission, hereafter known
as the City Planning Commission. It’s objective shall be that highway systems
be carefully planned; that the new community center grow only with adequate
highway, utility, health, educational, and recreational facilities; that the
needs of agriculture, industry, and business be recognized in future growth;
that residential areas provide healthy surroundings for family life; and that
the growth of the community is commensurate with, and promotive of, the
efficient and economic use of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
§ 10-2 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Any existing planning commission shall continue to operate as though it was
established under this article. All actions lawfully taken under prior acts are
hereby validated and continued in effect until amended or repealed by action
taken under the authority of this article. The membership of any existing
commission shall continue unchanged until the first regular meeting of the City
Council in January of the year following enactment of this article. At that
time, any appointments or changes necessary shall be made to bring the
membership of the Commission into conformity with the provisions of this
article.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
§ 10-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A complete comprehensive plan or any of its parts, such
as a comprehensive plan of land use and zoning, of thoroughfares , of
sanitation, of recreation, and of other related matters. It shall include such
ordinance or ordinances as may be deemed necessary to implement such complete
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The Municipal Planning Commission.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any tracts owned by the city.
   STREETS. Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, lanes,
alleys, and all public ways.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Any federal, state, regional, county, or municipal
government.
   UTILITY. Any facility used in rendering service which the public has a right
to demand.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)
§ 10-4 MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION; GENERALLY.
   The Municipal Planning Commission shall consist of not less than five, nor
more than 15, individuals, all of whom shall be freeholders and residents of
the city. They shall be qualified by knowledge and experience in matters
pertaining to the development of the city. They shall include representatives
of business, industry, and labor, and shall be nominated by the Mayor, subject
to the confirmation of the governing body. At least three-fifths of the
Commission’s members shall be residents of the city for a period of ten years
prior to nomination and confirmation. One member of the Commission shall also
be a member of the governing body of the city, and one member shall also be a
member of the administrative department of the city, the term of these two
members to be coextensive with the term of office to which they have been
elected or appointed. The governing body and the Mayor, however, may designate
others to serve as the city’s representatives on the Commission, so long as
such designation occurs at the first regular meeting of the Commission each
year. The remaining members of the Commission first selected shall serve terms
of one year, two years, and three years, respectively. Thereafter, members
shall be selected for terms of three years each. Vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired term only, in the same manner as original selections are made.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for all necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-4)
§ 10-5 ADVISORY MEMBERS.
   (A)   A designated representative of the County Planning Commission may
serve as an advisory member of the Municipal Planning Commission.
   (B)   A designated representative of the Municipal Planning Commission may
serve as an advisory member of the County Planning Commission.
   (C)   All such advisory members shall have all the privileges of membership,
except the right to vote.
(Prior Code, § 10-5)
§ 10-6 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall fix the time and place for holding regular
meetings, but it shall meet at least once in the months of January, April,
July, and October.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Commission may be called by the President or
by at least two members, upon submission of a written request to the Secretary.
The Secretary shall send to all members at least two days in advance of a
special meeting, a written notice fixing the date, time, and place of the
meeting, but written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date,
time, and place of the special meeting have been fixed in a regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 10-6)
§ 10-7 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. No
action of the Planning Commission shall be official unless authorized by a
majority of all of the members of the Commission at a regular or properly
called special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)
§ 10-8 OFFICES; APPROPRIATION FOR EXPENSES.
   The City Council shall provide the Commission with suitable offices for the
holding of meetings and the preservation of plans, maps, documents, and
accounts, and shall provide by appropriation a sum sufficient to defray the
necessary expenses of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-8)
§ 10-9 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Commission shall elect from
its members a President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall assume the
powers and responsibilities of the President during his or her absence or
disability.
(Prior Code, § 10-9)
§ 10-10 APPOINTMENT, DUTIES, AND COMPENSATION FOR SECRETARY AND EMPLOYEES;
SPECIAL AND TEMPORARY SERVICES; LEGAL ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Commission shall appoint and prescribe the duties and fix the
compensation of a Secretary and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of duties and responsibilities of the Commission. All such
compensation, however, be in conformity to, and in compliance with the salaries
and compensation fixed by the governing body.
   (B)   The Commission may make contracts for special or temporary services
and any professional counsel. The City Solicitor, upon request and without
additional compensation, shall render legal assistance and service to the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-10)
§ 10-11 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   To effectuate the purposes of this article, the Commission shall have the
power, authority, and duty to:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision of, and make rules and regulations for,
the administration of the affairs of the Commission;
   (B)   Prescribe uniform rules and regulations pertaining to its
investigations and hearings;
   (C)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the Commission;
   (D)   (1)   Prescribe the qualifications of, appoint, remove, and fix the
compensation of the employees, of the Commission; and
      (2)   Such compensation is to be in conformity to, and in compliance
with, the salaries and compensation fixed by the governing body.
   (E)   Delegate to employees authority to perform ministerial acts in all
cases, except where the final action of the Commission is necessary;
   (F)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all departmental proceedings,
and record and file all bonds and contracts, and assume responsibility for the
custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Commission;
   (G)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the governing body
concerning the operation of the Commission and the status of planning within
its jurisdiction;
   (H)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports, ordinances, and other
materials relating to the activities authorized under this article;
   (I)   Adopt a seal and certify all official acts;
   (J)   Pursue any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement of
the provisions of this article or any ordinance, rule, and regulation, or any
action taken thereunder;
   (K)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other
municipal departments, and the Commission shall be limited in all expenditures
to the provisions made therefor by the governing body;
   (L)   If deemed necessary, establish an advisory committee or committees;
and
   (M)   (1)   Delegate to a committee, composed of one or more members of the
Commission, the power to hold any public hearings or conferences required or
permitted under this article to be held by the Commission.
      (2)   If the hearing or conference is held by a committee, a written
record of the substance of the hearing or conference shall be made and
preserved with the records of the Commission for not less than five years.
      (3)   The committee shall [Missing Text] authority only to conduct the
hearing and report to the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-11)
§ 10-12 EXPENDITURES; DISPOSITION OF GIFTS; PARTICIPATION IN FEDERAL PLANNING
ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have the power and authority to expend,
under regular municipal procedure, all sums appropriated to it for the purposes
and activities authorized under this article.
   (B)   Any monies accepted shall be deposited with the city in a special non-
reverting [Missing Text] Planning Commission Fund to be available for
expenditures for the purpose designated by the donor. The Municipal Recorder
shall draw warrants against such funds only on vouchers signed by the President
and Secretary of the Commission.
   (C)   The Planning Commission is empowered and authorized to accept, spend,
and use funds provided for the purposes of this article by the government of
the United States, and any other agency or group. Those interests are in
harmony with such purposes, in accordance with federal requirements and subject
to such conditions or limitations the Constitution or law of this state may
provide.
(Prior Code, § 10-12)
ARTICLE 2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
10-13   Comprehensive Plan for physical development of territory
   
10-14   Same; contents
   
10-15   Same; notice and public hearing
   
10-16   Same; adoption by Commission
   
10-17   Same; certification and presentment to governing body
   
10-18   Same; consideration of Plan and ordinance by governing body;
publication
   
10-19   Same; rejection or amendment by governing body; consideration and
report by Commission
   
10-20   Same; amendment of Plan and ordinance after adoption
   
10-21   Same; validation of prior action
   
10-22   Same; interdepartmental cooperation
   
10-23   Jurisdiction of Municipal Planning Commission
§ 10-13 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF TERRITORY.
   The Planning Commission shall make, and recommend for adoption to the
governing body, a Comprehensive Plan for the physical development of the
territory within the corporate limits of the city. In preparing a Comprehensive
Plan, the Planning Commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and
studies of the existing conditions and probable future changes of such
conditions within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-13)
§ 10-14 SAME; CONTENTS.
   The Comprehensive Plan may include the following, or a study of the
following:
   (A)   Careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions
and the probable future growth of the municipality;
   (B)   Maps , plats, charts, and descriptive material presenting basic
information, locations, extent, and character of any of the following:
      (1)   History, population, and physical site conditions;
      (2)   Land use, including the height, area, bulk, and location, and use
of private and public structures and premises;
      (3)   Population densities;
      (4)   Community centers and neighborhood units;
      (5)   Blighted and slum areas;
      (6)   Streets, including bridges, viaducts, subways, parkways, and other
public ways and places;
      (7)   Sewers, sanitation, and drainage, including handling treatment and
disposal of excess drainage waters, sewage, garbage, refuse, wastes, ashes,
trash, and other similar matters;
      (8)   Stream pollution;
      (9)   Flood control and prevention;
      (10)   Public and private utilities, including water, light, heat,
communication, and other services;
      (11)   Transportation, including rail, bus, truck, air and water
transport, and their terminal facilities;
      (12)   Local mass transportation, including motor and trolley busses; or
street, elevated or underground railways, and taxicabs;
      (13)   Parks and recreation, including parks, playgrounds, reservations,
forests, public grounds, and spaces and facilities of a recreational nature;
      (14)   Public buildings and institutions, including governmental
administration and service buildings, hospitals, infirmaries, clinics, penal
and correctional institutions, and other civic and social service buildings;
      (15)   Education, including location and extent of schools, colleges, and
universities;
      (16)   Land utilization, including residence, industry, agriculture,
forests, and other uses;
      (17)   Conservation of water, soil, agricultural, and mineral resources;
and
      (18)   Any other factors which are a part of the physical, economic, or
social situation within the city.
   (C)   Reports, maps, charts, and recommendations setting forth plans for the
development, redevelopment, improvement, extension, and revision of the
subjects set out in division (B) above so as to substantially accomplish the
objective set forth in §
10-1;
   (D)   A long-range development program of public works projects, based on
the recommended plans of the Commission, for the purpose of eliminating
unplanned, unsightly, untimely, and extravagant projects, and with a view to
stabilizing industry and employment, and the keeping of such program up to date
by yearly revisions; and
   (E)   A long-range financial program of governmental expenditures in order
that such development program may be carried out, and the keeping of such
program up to date, for all separate taxing units within the city for the
purpose of assuring efficient and economic use of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 10-14)
§ 10-15 SAME; NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of the Comprehensive Plan, the Planning
Commission shall hold two public hearings and give at least 30 days’ notice
prior to the dates set for the hearings. The notices shall contain the date,
time, and place of the hearings, and they shall be published as Class I legal
advertisements, and advertised via any other available media (that is, radio or
television). The advertising area for such notices shall be the municipality.
   (B)   (a)   The first hearing shall be used to introduce the Comprehensive
Plan and the second hearing shall be used to gather citizen input. The second
hearing shall be held no less than five, nor more that 14, days after the first
hearing.
      (b)   After the notices for the public meeting have been advertised, the
Planning Commission shall make copies of the Comprehensive Plan available for
public inspection at the office of the Planning Commission and the Municipal
Recorder’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-15)
§ 10-16 SAME; ADOPTION BY COMMISSION.
   After a public hearing has been held, the Commission may, by resolution,
adopt the Comprehensive Plan and recommend the ordinance to the governing body
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-16)
§ 10-17 SAME; CERTIFICATION AND PRESENTMENT TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   Upon adoption of the Comprehensive Plan, and recommendation of the
ordinance by the Planning Commission, the Secretary shall certify a copy of the
Plan to the governing body.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the governing body, after adoption of the
plan, the Secretary or a member of the Commission shall present the Plan to the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 10-17)
§ 10-18 SAME; CONSIDERATION OF PLAN AND ORDINANCE BY GOVERNING BODY;
PUBLICATION.
   After presentation of the Plan to the governing body, the governing body
shall proceed to a consideration of the Plan and ordinance, and shall either
adopt, reject, or amend the plan. If the ordinance adopting the Comprehensive
Plan is published, the Plan may be incorporated by reference in the ordinance
and the full text of said Plan not published.
(Prior Code, § 10-18)
§ 10-19 SAME; REJECTION OR AMENDMENT BY GOVERNING BODY; CONSIDERATION AND
REPORT BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   If the governing body rejects the Plan and ordinance or amends it,
then it shall be returned to the Planning Commission, along with a written
explanation of the reasons for its rejection or amendment.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall have 45 days in which to consider
the rejection or amendment and report back to the governing body.
      (2)   If the Commission approves the amendment, the ordinance shall stand
as adopted by the governing body as of the date of the filing of the
Commission’s report with the governing body.
      (3)   If the Commission disapproves of the rejection or amendment, it
shall state its reasons for such disapproval in the report, and the governing
body shall again consider the Plan and ordinance, and its action in rejecting
or amending said Plan and ordinance, after such consideration, shall be final.
   (C)   In case the Commission does not file a report with the governing body
within 45 days, the action in rejecting or amending the Plan and ordinance
shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 10-19)
§ 10-20 SAME; AMENDMENT OF PLAN AND ORDINANCE AFTER ADOPTION.
   After the adoption of a Comprehensive Plan and ordinance, all amendments to
it shall be adopted according to the procedures set forth in §§
10-15 through
10-19, except that publication of the notices of the date, time , and place of
the hearings upon such amendment need only be 15 or more days prior to the date
of the hearing. If the governing body desires an amendment, it may direct the
Planning Commission to prepare an amendment and submit it to public hearings
within 60 days after formal written request by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 10-20)
§ 10-21 SAME; VALIDATION OF PRIOR ACTION.
   The adoption of a Comprehensive Plan, or any general development plans, by a
Planning Commission under the authority of prior acts is hereby validated and
shall continue in effect until amended under authority of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-21)
§ 10-22 SAME; INTERDEPARTMENTAL COOPERATION.
   Whenever the Planning Commission undertakes the preparation of a
Comprehensive Plan, the various municipal officials and departments shall make
available, upon the request of the Commission, such information as it relates
to the Commission’s activity.
(Prior Code, § 10-22)
§ 10-23 JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The authority of the Planning Commission shall not extend beyond the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
ARTICLE 3: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
10-24   Subdivision plats; approval required prior to recordation
   
10-25   Same; application for approval; notice and hearing
   
10-26   Same; basis for Commission’s action upon application for approval
   
10-27   Same; effect of approval or disapproval
   
10-28   Same; application fees
   
10-29   Same; plats filed without approval
   
10-30   Same; conditional approval; bonds
   
10-31   Improvement location permits; authority to issue and control
   
10-32   Review of decisions of Commission by certiorari
§ 10-24 SUBDIVISION PLATS; APPROVAL REQUIRED PRIOR TO RECORDATION.
   After a Comprehensive Plan and an ordinance, containing provisions for
subdivision control and the approval of plats and replats, has been adopted by
the governing body and a certified copy of the ordinance has been filed with
the Clerk of the County Commission, a plat of a subdivision must be approved by
the Planning Commission before it can be recorded.
(Prior Code, § 10-24)
§ 10-25 SAME; APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   A person desiring the approval of a plat shall submit a written
application for approval, together with a copy of the proposed plat, to the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the Planning Commission, if it
tentatively approves the application, shall set a date, time, and place for a
hearing, notify the applicant in writing, and notify by publication in the
manner specified in §
10-15.
(Prior Code, § 10-25)
§ 10-26 SAME; BASIS FOR COMMISSION’S ACTION UPON APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   In determining whether an application for approval shall be granted,
the Commission shall determine if the plat provides for:
      (1)   Coordination of subdivision streets with existing and planned
streets;
      (2)   Coordination with and extension of facilities included in the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Establishment of minimum width, depth, and area of lots within the
projected subdivision;
      (4)   Distribution of population and traffic in a manner tending to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious
development of the city; and
      (5)   Fair allocations of areas for streets, parks, schools, public and
semi-public buildings, homes, utilities, business, and industry.
   (B)   As a condition of approval of a plat, the Commission may specify:
      (1)   The manner in which streets and sidewalks shall be laid out,
graded, and improved;
      (2)   Provisions for water, sewage, and other utility services;
      (3)   Provisions for schools;
      (4)   Provisions for essential municipal services; and
      (5)   Provisions for recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 10-26)
§ 10-27 SAME; EFFECT OF APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   Following the hearing, the Commission shall either approve or
disapprove the application for approval of the plat.
   (B)   If the Commission approves the application, it shall affix the
Commission’s seal upon the plat. If it disapproves the application, it shall
set forth its own records and provide the applicant with a copy thereof.
   (C)   The applicant may re-submit his or her plat for approval, provided he
or she alleviates the reasons given for its original disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 10-27)
§ 10-28 SAME; APPLICATION FEES.
   The Planning Commission shall charge a fee of ________ for all applications
for approval of plates.
(Prior Code, § 10-28)
§ 10-29 SAME; PLATS FILED WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The filing and recording of a plat involving the subdivision of lands
covered by the Comprehensive Plan and ordinance shall be without legal effect
unless approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Provided, that failure to comply with this section shall not
invalidate or affect the title to any land within the area of such plat.
(Prior Code, § 10-29)
§ 10-30 SAME; CONDITIONAL APPROVAL; BONDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may approve a plat for a subdivision in which
the improvements and installations have not been completed, as required by the
ordinance, for the approval of plats if the applicant provides a bond which
shall:
      (1)   Run to the city;
      (2)   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations;
      (3)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Planning Commission; and
      (4)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (B)   If the applicant fails to complete the improvements and installations,
the city may carry out such improvements and installations.
(Prior Code, § 10-30)
§ 10-31 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS; AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND CONTROL.
   (A)   An improvement location permit for a structure of platted or unplatted
lands shall not be issued unless the structure and its location conform to this
city’s Comprehensive Plan and ordinance.
   (B)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall have the authority to issue and
control improvement location permits within this city.
(Prior Code, § 10-31)
§ 10-32 REVIEW OF DECISIONS OF COMMISSION BY CERTIORARI.
   A decision of the Planning Commission may be reviewed by a writ of
certiorari in a court of competent jurisdiction. A petition for certiorari
shall specify the grounds upon which it is alleged that the Commission’s action
is illegal or improper. Such petition must be filed within 60 days following
the Commission’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 10-32)
ARTICLE 4: ZONING
Section
   
10-33   Zoning Authority; generally
   
10-34   Zoning District; generally
   
10-35   Same; preliminary study
   
10-36   Procedures; tentative report; notice and hearings
   
10-37   Same; action by governing body on tentative report
   
10-38   Same; final report; notice and hearing; action
   
10-39   Supplemental and amending ordinances
   
10-40   Changes of zoning rules and regulations; petition for change
   
10-41   Same; considered as amendments to Comprehensive Plan; notice and
hearing
   
10-42   Election on zoning ordinance; form of ballots or ballot labels;
procedure
   
10-43   Existing uses safeguarded
§ 10-33 ZONING AUTHORITY; GENERALLY.
   In order to obtain the objectives stated in §
10-1, the governing body shall have and exercise the following powers:
   (A)   To classify, regulate, and limit the height, area, bulk, and use of
buildings hereafter to be erected;
   (B)   To regulate and determine the area of front, rear and side yards,
courts, and other open spaces about such buildings;
   (C)   To regulate and determine the use and intensity of use of land and lot
areas;
   (D)   To classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades, callings,
industries, commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings designed for
specified uses;
   (E)   To regulate and control, or prohibit in certain areas, junk yards,
dumps, or automobile or appliance grave yards, or the maintenance and operation
of second hand stores or outlets in residential areas;
   (F)   To classify and designate the rural lands among agricultural,
industrial, commercial, residential,
and other uses and purposes; and
   (G)   To divide the municipality into districts of such kind, character,
number, shape, and area as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 10-33)
§ 10-34 ZONING DISTRICT; GENERALLY.
   The various kinds of districts created in order to carry out the purposes of
§
10-33, need not necessarily cover or include the same territory, and may
overlap or coincide. The districts created shall also be subject to the
following:
   (A)   Rules and regulations as to height, area, bulk, and use of buildings
and as to the area of all yards, courts, and open spaces shall be uniform for
each class of buildings throughout each district;
   (B)   For each district designated for the location of trades, callings,
industries, commercial enterprises, or buildings, or designated for specified
uses, rules and regulations may be enforced specifying uses that shall be
excluded or subjected to reasonable requirements of a special nature, and
designating the use for which buildings may not be erected, altered, or used;
   (C)   The rules and regulations in one or more districts of the same kind or
character may differ from those in other like districts, but shall be uniform
for each district; and
   (D)   Several parts of the municipality may be classified within a single
district, although not contiguous.
(Prior Code, § 10-34)
§ 10-35 SAME; PRELIMINARY STUDY.
   In establishing such districts and rules and regulations, the governing body
shall give reasonable regard to existing conditions, the character of buildings
erected in each district, the most desirable use for which the land in each
district may be adapted, and the conservation of property values throughout the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-35)
§ 10-36 PROCEDURES; TENTATIVE REPORT; NOTICE AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Recommendations as to the boundaries of district and rules and
regulations, and restrictions, to be enforced shall be prepared by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The Commission may prepare the tentative report on its own
initiative, or the governing body may require its preparation.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold preliminary hearings and conferences on such
dates at such times and places, and upon such notice as it may determine to be
necessary to inform and aid itself in the preparation of the tentative report.
   (C)   The tentative report, which shall include the proposed zoning
ordinance with explanatory maps, shall be made to the governing body by the
Secretary of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-36)
§ 10-37 SAME; ACTION BY GOVERNING BODY ON TENTATIVE REPORT.
   (A)   The governing body shall consider the tentative report and shall
return it, with any suggestions and recommendations, to the Planning Commission
for its final report.
   (B)   Until the final report of the Commission is received by the governing
body, no zoning ordinance shall be adopted.
(Prior Code, § 10-37)
§ 10-38 SAME; FINAL REPORT; NOTICE AND HEARING; ACTION.
   After the Planning Commission submits the final report, the governing body
shall give all interested persons an opportunity to be heard, with reference to
the final report, at public hearings convenient for all persons affected.
Notices of the dates, times, and places of such hearings shall be published as
Class II legal advertisements within 14 consecutive days preceding the date set
for the hearings. The notices shall state that the report contains a
comprehensive zoning ordinance for the city, that written objections to the
final report, filed with the Municipal Recorder at or before the hearings, will
be heard, and that the hearings will be continued from time to time as may be
found necessary. During the time between the date of the first publication of
the notice and the date of the hearing, the final report shall be on file in
the office of the Planning Commission, available for public inspection. Upon
completion of the public hearings, the governing body shall proceed to the
consideration of the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-38)
§ 10-39 SUPPLEMENTAL AND AMENDING ORDINANCES.
   The governing body may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or change the
rules and regulations, and districts, fixed by ordinance hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 10-39)
§ 10-40 CHANGES OF ZONING RULES AND REGULATIONS; PETITION FOR CHANGE.
   Petitions, duly signed, may be presented to the Municipal Recorder
requesting an amendment, supplement of, or instead of changing of rules and
regulations of the zoning ordinance by:
   (A)   The Planning Commission; or
   (B)   The owners of 50% or more of the real property area to which the
petition relates.
(Prior Code, § 10-40)
§ 10-41 SAME; CONSIDERED AS AMENDMENTS TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; NOTICE AND
HEARING.
   (A)   Amendments, supplements, or changes of the rules and regulations of
the zoning ordinance shall be considered as amendments to the Comprehensive
Plan. Any proposed ordinance for the amendment, supplement, change, or repeal
of the zoning ordinance, not originating upon petition of the Planning
Commission, shall be referred to the Commission for consideration and report
before any final action is taken by the governing body.
   (B)   Prior to submission to the governing body of a Planning Commission
petition or a report on a proposed ordinance referred to it for amendment,
supplement, change, or repeal of the zoning ordinance, the Commission shall
give notices and hold public hearings in the manner prescribed under § 10-15,
except that publication need be made only 15 or more days prior to the date set
for such hearings.
(Prior Code, § 10-41)
§ 10-42 ELECTION ON ZONING ORDINANCE; FORM OF BALLOTS OR BALLOT LABELS;
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If, within 60 days following adoption of the zoning ordinance by the
governing body, a petition is filed with the Municipal Recorder asking for
submission of the zoning ordinance to the qualified voters of the city, such
ordinance shall not take effect until the ordinance has been approved by a
majority of the legal votes cast at any regular primary, or general or special,
election called for that purpose. The petition must be signed by a number of
qualified voters, in their own handwriting, residing in the area affected by
the proposed zoning equal to not less than 15% of the total legal votes cast in
the affected area for all candidates for Governor at the last preceding general
election at which a Governor was elected. Only qualified voters residing in the
area affected by the proposed ordinance shall be eligible to vote with respect
thereto.
   (B)   Upon the ballots, or ballot labels where voting machines are used,
there shall be written or printed the following:
 
    For Zoning
 
    Against Zoning
 
   (C)   If a majority of the legal votes cast upon the question be for zoning,
the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall, upon the date the results of such
an election are declared, be effective. If a majority of the legal votes cast
upon the question be against zoning, said zoning ordinance shall not take
effect, but the question may again be submitted to a vote at any regular,
primary, or general election in the manner herein provided.
   (D)   The governing body shall designate whether such election shall be held
as a primary, general, or special election. The election at which the question
of zoning is voted upon shall be held at the voting precincts established for
holding primary or general elections. All of the provisions of the general
election laws of this state concerning primary, general, or special elections,
when not in conflict with the provisions of this article, shall apply to voting
and elections hereunder, insofar as practicable.
   (E)   Notice of all elections at which the question of zoning is voted upon
shall be given by publication of the order calling for a vote on such question
as a Class II legal advertisement. The publication area for such publication
shall be the area in which voting on the question of zoning is to be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-42)
§ 10-43 EXISTING USES SAFEGUARDED.
   The zoning ordinance or ordinances shall not prohibit the continuance of the
use of any land, building, or structure for the purpose for which such land,
building, or structure is used at the time the zoning ordinance or ordinances
take effect, but any alteration or addition to any land, building, or structure
for the purpose of carrying on any use prohibited under the zoning rules and
regulations applicable to the district may be prohibited; provided, that no
such prohibition shall apply to alterations or additions to, or replacement of,
buildings or structures by any farmer, industry, or manufacturer, or to the use
of land presently owned by any farmer, industry, or manufacturer but not used
for agricultural, industrial, or manufacturing purposes, or to the use or
acquisition of additional land which may be required for the protection,
continuing development, or expansion of any agricultural, industrial, or
manufacturing operation, or any present or future satellite agricultural,
industrial, or manufacturing use.
(Prior Code, § 10-43)
ARTICLE 5: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
10-44   Creation; membership; terms; vacancies
   
10-45   Officers; quorum; compensation of Secretary and employees
   
10-46   Offices; appropriation for expenses
   
10-47   Rules and regulations and procedures; minutes and records
   
10-48   Powers; authority and duties
   
10-49   Hearing of appeal
   
10-50   Staying of work on premises when appeal taken; exception
   
10-51   Petition for writ of certiorari from decision or order
§ 10-44 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   As part of the zoning ordinance, the governing body hereby establishes
the Board of Zoning Appeals, consisting of five members to be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the confirmation of the governing body.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be individuals who
are freeholders and residents of the city, and at least three-fifths of such
members shall have been residents of the city for at least ten years preceding
the time of their appointment. No member of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be a member of the Planning Commission, nor shall any member hold other
elective or appointive offices in the municipal government, nor shall more than
one particular interest or profession be represented.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (D)   Upon initial creation of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the members
shall be appointed for the following terms: One for a term of one year; two for
a term of two years; and two for a term of three years. The terms shall expire
on January 1 of the first, second, and third year, respectively, following
their appointment. Thereafter, as their terms expire, each new appointment
shall be for a term of three years.
   (E)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Mayor shall
appoint a new member, subject to the confirmation of the governing body, for
the length of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 10-44)
§ 10-45 OFFICERS; QUORUM; COMPENSATION OF SECRETARY AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   At its first meeting of each year, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from its membership.
      (2)   The Vice-Chairperson shall have the power and authority to act as
Chairperson whenever the Chairperson is unable to discharge the duties of his
or her office.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
constitute a quorum. No action of the Board shall be official, unless
authorized by a majority of its members.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may appoint and fix the compensation of a
Secretary and such employees as are necessary for the discharge of its duties,
all in conformity to, and in compliance with, the rates of compensation set by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 10-45)
§ 10-46 OFFICES; APPROPRIATION FOR EXPENSES.
   The governing body shall provide the Board of Zoning Appeals with suitable
offices and shall appropriate enough money to sufficiently defray the
reasonable expense of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-46)
§ 10-47 RULES AND REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES; MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning appeals shall adopt such rules and regulations
concerning the filing of appeals, applications for vacancies and exceptions,
the giving of notice, and the conduct of hearing as may be necessary to carry
out its duties under and the terms of this article.
   (B)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of all
official actions and shall record the vote on all actions taken. All minutes
and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public
records.
(Prior Code, § 10-47)
§ 10-48 POWERS; AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall:
   (A)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any orders, requirements,
decisions, or determinations made by an administrative official or board
charged with the enforcement of any ordinance or rule and regulation adopted
pursuant to §§
10-34 to
10-44 of this chapter;
   (B)   Permit and authorize exceptions to the district rules and regulations
only in the classes of cases or in a particular situation, as specified in the
Zoning Ordinance;
   (C)   Hear and decide special exceptions to the terms required to act under
the ordinance; and
   (D)   Authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms
of the zoning ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the
zoning ordinance will result in undue hardship, and so that the spirit of the
zoning ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done.
(Prior Code, § 10-48)
§ 10-49 HEARING OF APPEAL.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
an appeal. Public notice of the hearing shall be given in the manner specified
in § 10-15 of this chapter. Notice shall also be given, by registered mail, to
all persons who own property within a three block radius of the affected area
and a sign shall be posted on the affected premises, indicating the date, time,
and place of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 10-49)
§ 10-50 STAYING OF WORK ON PREMISES WHEN APPEAL TAKEN; EXCEPTION.
   When an appeal has been taken and filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals,
all proceedings and work on the premises in question shall be stayed unless the
administrative official or board from whom or which the appeal is taken shall
certify that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. If such certificate be filed, proceedings
or work on the premises shall not be stayed, except by a restraining order
granted by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 10-50)
§ 10-51 PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI FROM DECISION OR ORDER.
   (A)   Every decision or order of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
subject to review by certiorari in a court of competent jurisdiction. The
provisions of §
10-32 shall also apply in this section.
   (B)   Upon review by certiorari, all proceedings and work on the premises in
question shall be stayed unless the administrative official or board from whom
or which the appeal is taken shall certify that a stay would cause imminent
peril to life or property.
(Prior Code, § 10-51)
ARTICLE 6: ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
Section
   
10-52   Enforcement
   
10-53   Injunction
   
10-54   Penalty
   
10-55   Conflicts of law
§ 10-52 ENFORCEMENT.
   The governing body shall provide penalties, as set out in §
10-54 of this chapter, for failure to comply with the provisions of any
ordinance or rule and regulation adopted pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. Any buildings erected, raised, or converted on land or premises used
in violation of any provision of any ordinance or rule and regulation adopted
under the authority of this chapter shall be considered a common nuisance. The
owner of such building, land, or premises shall be liable for maintaining a
common nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10-52)
§ 10-53 INJUNCTION.
   The Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or any designated
official may seek an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction to
restrain a person or unit of government form violating the provisions of this
article or of any ordinance or rule and regulation adopted pursuant hereto. The
Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or any designated enforcement
official (building inspector) may also seek a mandatory injunction in a court
of competent jurisdiction directing a person or unit of government to remove a
structure erected in violation of the provisions of this article or of any
ordinance or rule and regulation adopted pursuant hereto. If the Planning
Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or the designated enforcement official
is successful in any such suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of the
action.
(Prior Code, § 10-53)
§ 10-54 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $200 dollars.
(Prior Code, § 10-54)
§ 10-55 CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   Whenever any provision of this article conflicts with the provisions of any
ordinance, or statute, the provisions which establish a higher standard shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-55)
CHAPTER 11: PUBLIC WORKS
   Article
      
0.   AUTHORIZATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPAL PUBLIC WORKS
      
1.   WATERWORKS SYSTEM
      
2.   SEWAGE WORKS SYSTEM
      
3.   SOLID WASTE
      
4.   PUBLIC RECREATION
ARTICLE 0: AUTHORIZATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPAL PUBLIC
WORKS
Section
   
11-1   Definitions
   
11-2   Public uses for which private property can be taken or damaged
   
11-3   Municipalities authorized to construct, and the like, public works, and
to acquire property; payment of costs
   
11-4   Obligation paid by general obligation bonds
   
11-5   Obligation paid by revenue bonds
   
11-6   Obligation paid by special assessment
   
11-7   Issuance of general obligation bonds to be repaid by special assessments
   
11-8   Acceptance of grants; procurement of loans
   
11-9   Limitations of additional assessment
   
11-10   Special provisions as to certain municipal public works
   
11-11   Construction, and the like, to be under control of governing body or
appointed Board, and the like
   
11-12   Powers of Board
   
11-13   Rates for services rendered by works
   
11-14   Accounting system, yearly auditing, custodian of funds
   
11-15   Publication of financial statement
   
11-16   Penalty
§ 11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL PUBLIC WORKS, WORKS, or PROJECTS.
      (1)   The construction or repair of public buildings, utilities, or
property.
      (2)   The construction, reconstruction, establishment, acquisition,
improvement, renovation, extension, enlargement, increase, equipment,
maintenance, repair (including replacements), and operation of jails, jail
facilities, municipal buildings, police stations, fire stations, libraries,
museums, other public buildings, incinerator plants, land fill or other garbage
disposal systems, hospitals, piers, docks, terminals, airports, drainage
systems, flood control systems, stormwater systems and associated stormwater
management program, flood walls, culverts, bridges (including approaches,
causeways, viaducts, underpasses, and connecting roadways), public markets,
cemeteries, motor vehicle parking facilities (including parking lots,
buildings, ramps, curb-line parking, meters, and other facilities considered
necessary, appropriate, useful, convenient, or incidental to the regulation,
control, and parking of motor vehicles), farms, dormitories, apartments, and
other housing facilities for the students and faculties of institutions of
higher education; facilities providing housing for the elderly, including, but
not limited to, life care facilities, congregate living facilities and adult
residential facilities, stadiums, gymnasiums, sports arenas, auditoriums,
public recreation centers, public recreation parks, swimming pools, roller
skating rinks, ice skating rinks, tennis courts, golf courses, polo grounds, or
the grading, regrading, paving, repaving, surfacing, resurfacing, curbing,
recurbing, widening, or otherwise improving of any street, avenue, road, alley,
or way, or the building or renewing of sidewalks, where works or projects will
be made self-supporting, and the cost thereof, together with the interest
thereon, will be returned within a reasonable period, not exceeding 40 years,
by means of tolls, fees, rents, special assessments, or charges other than
taxation; and the terms shall also mean any works or project as a whole, and
all integral parts thereof, including all necessary, appropriate, useful,
convenient, or incidental appurtenances and equipment in connection with any
one or more of the above.
(W. Va. Code § 8-16-1)
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
      (1)   The activities associated with the management, operation,
maintenance, and control of stormwater and stormwater systems, and shall
include, but not be limited to, public education, stormwater and surface runoff
water quality improvement, mapping, planning, flood control, inspection,
enforcement, and any other activities required by state and federal law.
      (2)   The term STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM shall not include those
activities associated with the management, operation, maintenance, and control
of highways, road, and drainage easements, and/or stormwater facilities
constructed, owned, and/or operated by the State Division of Highways without
the express agreement of the Commissioner of Highways.
(W. Va. Code § 8-16-1)
   STORMWATER SYSTEMS.
      (1)   A STORMWATER SYSTEM in its entirety or any integral part thereof
used to collect and dispose of stormwater and an associated stormwater
management program. It includes all facilities, structures, and natural
watercourses used for collecting and conducting stormwater to, through and from
drainage areas to the points of final outlet including, but not limited to, any
and all of the following: Inlets, conduits, outlets, channels, ponds, drainage
easements, water quality facilities, catch basins, ditches, streams, gulches,
flumes, culverts, siphons, retention or detention basins, dams, floodwalls,
pipes, flood control systems, levies, and pumping stations.
      (2)   The term STORMWATER SYSTEMS shall not include highways, roads, and
drainage easements, and/or stormwater facilities constructed, owned, and/or
operated by the State Division of Highways.
(W. Va. Code § 8-16-1)
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
§ 11-2 PUBLIC USES FOR WHICH PRIVATE PROPERTY CAN BE TAKEN OR DAMAGED.
   The public uses for which private property can be taken or damaged are as
follows:
   (A)   For the construction of railways, waterways, roadways, sidewalks,
storm sewers, or other works for internal improvement used by public works;
   (B)   For the construction of telephone and power plants used by the public;
   (C)   For construction, maintaining, and operating the works of natural
resources;
   (D)   For constructing, maintaining, and operating water plants;
   (E)   For the purpose of constructing, maintaining, and operating sewer
systems and sewage plants;
   (F)   For the reasonable use of, and incorporated company engaged in, public
enterprises of which the municipality is sole or part owner;
   (G)   For buildings, parks, recreation areas, monuments, and the like, of
the municipality;
   (H)   For cemeteries or enlarging existing ones;
   (I)   For public schools, libraries, and hospitals; and
   (J)   For constructing, maintaining, and operating pipelines, plants,
systems, and storage facilities; for the transportation by common carrier as a
public utility of coal and its derivatives, and all mixtures and combinations.
(W. Va. Code § 8-16-1) (Prior Code, § 11-2)
§ 11-3 MUNICIPALITIES AUTHORIZED TO CONSTRUCT, AND THE LIKE, PUBLIC WORKS, AND
TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY; PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   The municipality is, and any two or more municipalities acting jointly,
whether situate in the same county or different counties, are, hereby empowered
and authorized to construct, reconstruct, establish, acquire, improve,
renovate, extend, enlarge, increase, own, equip, repair (including
replacements), maintain and operate any municipal public works, together with
all appurtenances necessary, appropriate, useful, convenient, or incidental for
or to the maintenance and operation of such works, and shall have plenary power
and authority to acquire by gift, grant, purchase, condemnation, or otherwise,
and thereafter hold, all necessary lands, rights, easements, rights-of-way,
franchises, and other property therefor within or without, or partly within and
partly without, the corporate limits of any such municipality or
municipalities, and to issue revenue bonds to pay the costs of such public
works and properties; provided, that this section shall not be construed to
authorize any municipality to construct, reconstruct, establish, acquire,
improve, renovate, extend, enlarge, increase, own, equip, repair (including
replacements), maintain, or operate any works which would render a service
already being adequately rendered within such municipality. No obligation shall
be incurred by any municipality in such construction, reconstruction,
establishment, acquisition, improvement, renovation, extension, enlargement, or
increase, except such as is payable solely from the funds provided under the
authority of this article.
(W. Va. Code § 8-16-2) (Prior Code, § 11-3)
§ 11-4 OBLIGATION PAID BY GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS.
   The municipality may issue general obligation bonds for public works
projects, the price of which shall not be below the par value of the bond. The
sale of general obligation bonds shall be governed by the restrictions and
limitations of the United States Government, plus the indebtness of the two
shall not be more than 5% of the value of the taxable property within; nor
shall any bond be issued unless the debt will be serviced within the regular
tax levy limits prescribed in the tax limitation amendment. No general
obligation bonds shall be issued until their quest of issuing has been
submitted to the voters during an annual or special election, and three-fifths
of the people voting approve the bond.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)
§ 11-5 OBLIGATION PAID BY REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   The municipality may issue revenue bonds for public works projects.
The revenue bonds shall not in any way be a corporate indebtness of this
municipality within the meaning of any statutory or constitutional limits
therein.
   (B)   Such revenue bonds shall bear interest at not more than 8% annum
payable semi-annually and shall mature at a time set by the resolution. Such
bond may be made redeemable before mature at not more than par value below
thereto and a premium of 5%. Said ordinance shall fix the form and denomination
of the bonds, plus the place where the principal and interest are to be paid
which may be at any bank or trust company. The bonds shall include on the front
that the municipality is not responsible for paying for the bonds, but that
payment will come from the net revenues of the works. All bonds shall be under
the Uniform Commercial Code of the state. Said bonds shall be exempt from all
taxation. All bonds shall contain the municipal seal, and all the signatures on
the bond shall remain good even if these people leave office. If the proceeds
of the bonds are not enough more may be issued. If the proceeds are too great,
the profit shall be used to pay back the bonds.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)
§ 11-6 OBLIGATION PAID BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The cost of the public works project may be apportioned upon the
landowners whose land abuts upon the project’s rights-of-way. If the project’s
rights-of-way should be different on one street than another than the cost may
be equitably apportioned, and the cost shall only be against those whose
abutting land benefitted from the project’s rights-of-way. All situations not
covered in this section, the cost shall be apportioned equally as determined by
the governing body.
   (B)   (1)   The property abutting any project’s right-of-way may be held in
lien until such assessment, which is charged to such property, is paid. A
notice of the liens shall be certified by the Recorder and sent to the County
Clerk.
      (2)   The owner shall pay when the installments come due. If he or she
defaults his or her payments for 60 days, this municipality can demand the
entire sum owed and take legal action to obtain it based on the records as held
by the Clerk of the county.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)
§ 11-7 ISSUANCE OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS TO BE REPAID BY SPECIAL
ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   This municipality may issue general obligation bonds for improvements,
acquisition, or constriction in anticipation of special assessments, the price
of which shall not be below the par value of the bond.
   (B)   The bonds shall be payable not to exceed ten years from the date of
the issuance, and shall bear interest not to exceed 8% annum, payable annually;
and the sale of municipal bonds shall be governed by the restrictions and
limitations of the United States Government, plus the indebtness of the city
shall not be more than 5% of the value of the taxable property within; nor
shall any bond be issued unless an annual tax is imposed to pay off the
interest of all bonds and the balance in ten years.
   (C)   All money collected from the abutting landowners shall go to the
paying of the bonds. No general obligation bonds shall be issued until their
question of issuing has been submitted to the voters during an annual or
special election, in which three-fifths of the people voting approve the bond.
(Prior Code, § 11-7)
§ 11-8 ACCEPTANCE OF GRANTS; PROCUREMENT OF LOANS.
   (A)   The municipality can secure loans to build or improve its works from
federal sources, private agencies, individuals, or corporations which loan or
temporary advance money which can be repaid out of the proceeds of the bonds
issued under this article.
   (B)   In no event shall any loan or temporary advance be a general
obligation of the municipality, but shall be paid for solely from the proceeds
of the bond or the revenue of the works.
(Prior Code, § 11-8)
§ 11-9 LIMITATIONS OF ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT.
   When the cost of constructing public works projects has been assessed
against abutting property owners, no part of the cost of a similar improvement
of the same portion of the street shall be assessed for ten years after
completion of the preceding similar assessment.
(Prior Code, § 11-9)
§ 11-10 SPECIAL PROVISIONS AS TO CERTAIN MUNICIPAL PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   If the works is a city parking lot, the city may use revenue from
other parking meters and lots unless they have already been committed
elsewhere.
   (B)   If the work is for a jail, the city may pledge, not to exceed 20
years, all fines and fees. This municipality may pay off early all bonds issued
for repairs of abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 11-10)
§ 11-11 CONSTRUCTION, AND THE LIKE, TO BE UNDER CONTROL OF GOVERNING BODY OR
APPOINTED BOARD, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The construction and repair of all works may be made up of a committee
or board containing either all or a part of the governing body (for example,
the Sanitary Board and the Parks and Recreation Board).
   (B)   The governing body shall set the powers and compensation of such Board
members, the number of members, and the way in which they are to be appointed
or selected. The Board shall be non-partisan and shall establish its own
bylaws.
(Prior Code, § 11-11)
§ 11-12 POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board shall take all steps necessary and have the power to make
contracts and agreements in order to carry out the provisions in this article;
provided, that any contract relating to financial matters shall be approved by
the governing body. The Board shall employ and fix the rate of compensation for
those necessary, and it shall do such work as the Board directs. All expenses
incurred shall be paid by visions provided for in this article, and at no time
shall the Board spend beyond extent to which money shall have, or may have,
been provided under the authority of this article. No contract or agreement
with any contractor of over $1,000 shall be made without first having open
public bids and the award made to the best bidder. The Board shall establish
rules and regulations for the use of the works.
(Prior Code, § 11-12)
§ 11-13 RATES FOR SERVICES RENDERED BY WORKS.
   This municipality has the power to establish rates and maintain these rates
for all public works, and to charge these rates to people for services
rendered. The rates shall be used for the maintenance, improvement, and to pay
off the bonded indebtedness. All rate changes shall be subject to public
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-13)
§ 11-14 ACCOUNTING SYSTEM, YEARLY AUDITING, CUSTODIAN OF FUNDS.
   This municipality/Board shall maintain a proper system of accounting,
showing the amount received. All accounts shall be audited every year by a
competent auditor, and all audits shall be open to the public. The Treasurer,
or other appointed official, shall be the custodian of funds derived from the
income received from the works, and all such funds shall be kept separate from
municipal funds.
(Prior Code, § 11-14)
§ 11-15 PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The Board/municipality shall publish a financial statement every year
as a Class I legal advertisement.
   (B)   It shall include all expenditures for the year and who such
expenditures went to. It shall also include the money taken in from the bonds
and how it was used, plus a report on the debts that had occurred during the
year and a final balance.
   (C)   If the Board fails these duties, every member concurring in the
failure shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $100 or more
than $200.
(Prior Code, § 11-15)
§ 11-16 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for, the
violation thereof shall be no less than $50 or more than a fine not exceeding
$1,000. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-16)
ARTICLE 1: WATERWORKS SYSTEM
Section
   
11-100   Authorization of waterworks
   
11-101   Rates or charges for services; discontinuance of services
   
11-102   System of accounts; audits
   
11-103   Preparation and publication of financial statement
   
11-104   Declaration and injury to waterworks system
   
11-105   Filling of swimming pools, large impoundments
§ 11-100 AUTHORIZATION OF WATERWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality shall have the responsibility for the planning
and implementation of a waterworks system for the citizens of the municipality
and those other area residents whom the Council deems it feasible to serve.
      (2)   This to be accomplished in keeping with existing state statutes
with regard to health and environmental considerations, and to be enacted with
regard to the health, safety, and public interest of the citizens.
   (B)   The Council, in keeping with the statutes of the state, may engage in
contracts for the provision of planning, engineering, and construction services
with the purpose of providing water service for the residents of this
municipality and those other populations to be considered.
(Prior Code, § 11-100)
§ 11-101 RATES OR CHARGES FOR SERVICES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICES.
   (A)   This municipality has the power to charge and maintain just equitable
rates to every person using the system, and to change these rates from time to
time. The revenue gained from such charges shall be used to upkeep the works
and pay off debt service requirements. All rates, if not paid when charged, may
constitute a lien, and if not paid in 30 days after the same is due, the amount
thereof, plus 10% and the attorneys fee, can be gained by the municipality in a
civil suit, and such suit may be foreclosed against such lot, parcel of land,
or building. If this course of action does not work, then the municipality may
make application to the Public Services Commission for relief.
   (B)   Whenever a rate hike is to be put into effect, a public hearing shall
be held not less that ten days after the proposal after which the hearing shall
be held and the rates shall be decided on. A copy of the rates shall be kept
with the Recorder and open to the public at all times. The aggregate of the
rates must be sufficient to maintain the care of the works and must be approved
by the Public Service Commission before being implemented.
   (C)   The municipality shall not discontinue service to any customer for
violation of rules and regulations, or for non-payment of the bill, without
first having tried diligently to induce the customer to comply with its rules
and regulations, or to pay his or her bills.
   (D)   Service shall actually be discontinued only after at least 24 hours’
written notice shall have been given to the customer by the city that bills are
five or more days delinquent, or that the violation of rules must cease;
provided, however, that where fraudulent use of water is detected, or where the
city’s regulations re-measuring equipment have been tampered with, or where a
dangerous condition is found to exist on the customer’s premises, the water may
be shut off without advance notice. In no case shall the city discontinue
service on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or a day prior to a holiday or if an
emergency exists. All disconnections shall be performed between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
   (E)   There shall be charged to, and collected form, each and every person
seeking a connection to the waterworks system of the city, prior to and as a
condition to such connection, a one-time charge of $25, which shall be non-
refundable, to reimburse the city for the estimated costs of such connection.
   (F)   If a customer of the waterworks system of the city who is moving from
one location on said system to another location on said system, the Clerk is
authorized to waive such connection or startup fee if such customer has, at the
former location to which the city has provided for his or her account water
services, promptly paid a charge therefor.
   (G)   The decision of the Clerk with respect to the waiver or non-waver of
such fee shall be final unless the customer affected shall, at the time such
waiver is refused by the Clerk, demand a hearing on such question with the
Council, and the Council shall thereupon take cognizance of such request, and
hear and determine finally such matter at the next session of Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 11-102 SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS; AUDITS.
   This municipality shall establish an accounting system based on the system
of accounts as provided by the State Public Service Commission for the
waterworks system. These accounts shall be audited annually and the audit
should be made open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
§ 11-103 PREPARATION AND PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk of the municipality in charge of the accounting for the
waterworks system shall prepare a monthly income statement to be presented to
the Mayor and Council showing the cash collected and disbursed for the period.
   (B)   The municipality shall prepare an annual report including a balance
sheet, income statement, and list of assets of the waterworks system. Such a
report shall be prepared in accordance with the format and system of accounts
provided by the State Public Services Commission.
   (C)   The municipality shall publish a financial statement of the waterworks
system every year as a Class I legal advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)
§ 11-104 DECLARATION AND INJURY TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Declaration of necessity; water connection required where available.
The use of the water system of the city is determined and declared to be
essential for the protection and preservation of the public health, comfort,
safety, economy, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, and of the
area served by the system.
   (B)   Tapping water pipes. It shall be unlawful for any person to tap, or
cause to be tapped, any pipe belonging to the city or any water company
supplying water to any of the inhabitants of the city, or to any private pipe
connected with such water pipe, unless consent first be had from the city.
   (C)   Injury to water fixtures. It shall be unlawful for any person
willfully to break, injure, deface, or destroy any water main, meter, bend,
branch, sleeve, cap, valve, hydrant, jet, fireplug, service pipe, stopcock,
box, plate, or covering, or any other fixture or thing used or connected with
the distribution of water throughout the streets of the city, or for its
introduction into any building of the city.
   (D)   Unlawful waste, flooding, or diversion of water. It shall be unlawful
for any occupant of the premises into which water has been introduced to permit
the water to run or waste unnecessarily from any water pipe, hydrant, jet,
cock, or other fixture; or to overflow or flood the sidewalk or pavement, or to
flow out upon any lot or street, or to flow from his or her fountain into
adjacent premises and there be used; or to be taken from or used by any person
other than such occupant or a member or a visitor of his or her family, except
in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 11-104)
§ 11-105 FILLING OF SWIMMING POOLS, LARGE IMPOUNDMENTS.
   (A)   Henceforth, all swimming pools, or any other amounts of water to be
consumed by the filling of large impoundments rapidly, must be metered and
billed as such by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Preceding the filling of such large impoundments, a contact should be
made with the City Clerk or other city officials so that the Water Department
can compensate for a sudden drop in the water level of the storage tanks.
   (C)   In addition, any city employee used by the individual as an aid in
filling an impoundment must be reimbursed for the time consumed at his or her
going rate of pay. This reimbursement is payable to the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-105)
ARTICLE 2: SEWAGE WORKS SYSTEM
Section
   
11-201   Authorization of sewage works
   
11-202   Declaration of necessity; sanitary sewer connection required where
available
   
11-203   Rates or charges for sanitary sewer services; collection of said rates
or charges
   
11-204   System of accounting; audits
   
11-205   Preparation and publication of financial statement
   
11-206   Sewage works system
§ 11-201 AUTHORIZATION OF SEWAGE WORKS.
   (A)   This municipality shall have the responsibility for the planning and
implantation of a sewage system for the citizens of the municipality and those
other area residents whom the city deems it feasible to serve. This is to be
accomplished in keeping with existing state statutes with regard to health and
environmental considerations, and to be enacted with regard to the health,
safety, and public interest of the citizens.
   (B)   The city, in keeping with the statutes of the state, may engage in
contracts for provision of planning, engineering, and construction services
with the purpose of providing sewage service for the residents of the
municipality and those other populations to be considered.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 11-202 DECLARATION OF NECESSITY; SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED WHERE
AVAILABLE.
   Any person owning abutting land to the sanitary sewer or where such sewer
might be placed shall be compelled to hook up to the public sewer, and a notice
to do so will be given to the owner. The use of the sanitary sewer system of
the city is determined and declared to be essential for the protection and
preservation of the public health, comfort, safety, economy, and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the city and of the area served by the system.
Falling to comply with this order after ten days have gone by shall be a
misdemeanor beginning on the eleventh day, and every day afterwards, shall be a
separate offense. The fine shall not be less than $5 or more than $25 per day.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)
§ 11-203 RATES OR CHARGES FOR SANITARY SEWER SERVICES; COLLECTION OF SAID RATES
OR CHARGES.
   (A)   This municipality shall issue, from time to time, a schedule of rates
or charges for persons using the sanitary sewer system. Implementation of new
rates or charges shall be subject to a public hearing, to be held not less that
ten days after the proposal to change said rates or charges is made. A copy of
the rates shall be kept with the Recorder and open to the public at all times.
The aggregate of the rates must be sufficient to maintain the care of the
sewage works. All rate changes must be approved by the Public Service
Commission before being implemented.
   (B)   All charges in connection with the city sanitary sewer system, within
and/or without the corporate limits, if not paid when due, shall constitute a
lien upon the premises served by the system. If any service charge or fee shall
not be paid within 30 days after the same is due, the amount thereof, together
with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s fee, may be recovered by the
city in a civil action. In connection with such action, the lien described by
this section may be foreclosed against such lot, parcel of land, or building,
in accordance with the laws relating thereto.
   (C)   The municipality shall not discontinue sanitary sewer service to any
customer because of non-payment of service charges unless they have first
acquired the approval of the Public Service Commission. The municipality shall
make use of such remedies as may be available for the collection of delinquent
accounts prior to application to the Public Service Commission for other
relief.
(Prior Code, § 11-203)
§ 11-204 SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTING; AUDITS.
   This municipality shall establish an accounting system based on the system
of accounts as provided by the State Public Service Commission for the sewer
works system. These accounts shall be audited annually, and the audit should be
made open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
§ 11-205 PREPARATION AND PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk of the municipality in charge of the accounting for the
sewage works system shall prepare a monthly income statement to be presented to
the Mayor and Council showing the cash collected and disbursed for the period.
   (B)   The municipality shall prepare an annual report including a balance
sheet, income statement, and list of assets of the sewage works system. Such a
report shall be prepared in accordance with the format and system of accounts
provided by the State Public Services Commission.
   (C)   The municipality shall publish a financial statement of the sewage
works system every year as a Class I legal advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
§ 11-206 SEWAGE WORKS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Certain buildings required to have sanitary water closets, connected
to sanitary sewer or sanitary septic tanks.
      (1)   Each inhabitable building or structure in the city, or beyond the
city limits for a distance of one mile, used or intended for use for
residential, commercial, industrial, or institutional purposes, or wherein
persons are employed or congregate, or are intended to be employed or
congregate, shall be provided by the owner, occupant, or person in charge, at
his or her own expense, with one or more sanitary flush toilets, in such number
as to be reasonably sufficient to accommodate the number of persons usually
resident, employed, or congregating; and where persons of both sexes are
employed or congregate, there shall be not less than one such sanitary water
closet, enclosed so as to ensure privacy, for each sex; and such toilets shall,
at the expense of the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the premises, be
connected to a sanitary sewer.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent to put any person in
possession of any building, or any part, not provided with water closet
accommodations, except a watchman for the purpose of guarding such building or
part.
   (B)   Application for sewer service required. It shall be unlawful for any
person, including public bodies as well as natural persons, to make an initial
cut-in or connection with the city sewer system and use that system without
first making written application for such connection and paying all incident
costs, charges, fees, and deposits. Such application shall be made on forms
prescribed and furnished by the city, and shall constitute an agreement by the
applicant with the city to abide by all provisions of this article and such
applicable rules and regulations of the City Council in regard to the use of
the sewer system. Such application for service by firms, partnerships,
associations, and corporations shall be submitted only by their duly authorized
agent; and the official title of such agent shall be signed to the application.
   (C)   Rendering service.
      (1)   The application shall grant, or cause to be granted, to the city,
without cost, all rights, easements, permits, and privileges which are
necessary for the rendering of sewer service.
      (2)   Duly authorized employees of the city shall have access at all
reasonable hours to the premises of the applicant for the purpose of installing
or removing any of its property, examining pipes or fixtures, or for any
purpose incidental to the rendering of sewer service.
   (D)   Unauthorized connections prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall connect to or turn on any sewer service, or cut-in,
interconnect, tap, or make any alteration to any main distribution or
collection pipe of the city’s sewer system, or permit any connection or tapping
to be made to the sewer system on his or her premises or the premises occupied
by him or her, or knowingly use the sewer service from connections in violation
of any of the provisions of this article, or any rules or regulations adopted
by the city with respect to this article.
      (2)   Roof drains, yard and area drains, footer drains, or any line
carrying flow other than exclusively sanitary wastewater are prohibited from
connection to the sanitary sewer system. However, where, in the opinion of the
city, property damage will occur if the stipulations and this section are
followed, a variance, in writing, can be granted by the city to protect
property and lives.
   (E)   Matter not to be thrown into sewer. No person shall throw or deposit
in or upon any public sewer or any trap, basin, inlet, grating, manhole, or
other appurtenance of any public sewer in the city any sticks, stones, brick,
earth, gravel, dirt, mud, hay, straw, manure, rubbish, litter, sweepings,
offal, vegetables, garbage, other than properly shredded garbage from an
approved disposal device, trees, shrubs, branches, twigs, leaves, papers, rags,
oils, grease, gasoline, benzene, cinders, or refuse matter of any kind.
   (F)   Introducing into sewer hot, corrosive or explosive substances. No
person shall make or maintain any connection with any public sewer or
appurtenance whereby there may be conveyed into the sewer any hot, suffocating,
corrosive, flammable, or explosive liquid, gas, vapor, substance, or material
of any kind; and no person shall cause to enter or flow into any public sewer
or appurtenance any hot, corrosive, suffocating, flammable, or explosive
liquid, gas, vapor, substance, or material of any kind; however, the provisions
of this section shall not apply to water from ordinary hot-water broilers of
residences.
   (G)   City not liable for damage. The city shall be liable for any damage
resulting from bursting of any sewer main, service pipe, or valve, or from
discontinuing the operation of its sewer collection, treatment, and disposal
facilities, for repairs, extensions, or connections, or from the accidental
failure of the sewage collection, treatment, and disposal facilities from any
cause whatsoever. In cases of emergency, the Sanitary Board shall have the
right to restrict the use of its sewage collection, treatment, and disposal
facilities in any reasonable manner for the protection of the city and its
sewer system.
   (H)   Tampering with sewer appurtenances. No person shall break or damage,
turn, lift, remove, raise, or tamper with any cover or any manhole, basin,
inlet, or other appurtenance of any public storm sewer without a written permit
from the city, or of any combined sewer or sanitary sewer without a written
permit from the.
   (I)   Obstruction. No person shall obstruct, impede, or cause to be impeded
or obstructed the flow of any public sewer, nor interfere with its free
discharge or ventilation, nor clog up such sewer or any appurtenance.
   (J)   Sewer taps only by authorized persons. No person, except those persons
duly employed or authorized by the city, shall tap the city’s sewer mains.
(Prior Code, § 11-206)
ARTICLE 3: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
11-300   Authorization of solid waste management
   
11-301   Private scavengers, and the like, not to do business in the city
   
11-302   Disposal
   
11-303   Operation of solid waste disposal site
   
11-304   Premises to be kept clean
   
11-305   Mandatory disposal; proof required; penalty imposed
   
11-306   Preparation of garbage for collection
   
11-307   Storage
   
11-308   Where receptacles to be kept; duty to empty and clean receptacles
   
11-309   Containers used for collection
   
11-310   Storage on public way; exceptions
   
11-311   Location of containers for collection
   
11-312   Collection and disposal supervision
   
11-313   Delivery of refuse upon private property
   
11-314   Post collection procedures
   
11-315   Disturbing containers
   
11-316   Throwing, scattering, or delivering refuse upon any premises, street,
or place
   
11-317   Display of decals
   
11-318   Customer list to be provided to city
   
11-319   Duty of contractors to remove debris; collection of refuse from lots
   
11-320   Fallen trees, stumps, and debris which are on public right-of-way
   
11-321   Unauthorized use of dumpsters
   
11-322   Littering and deposit of garbage, refuse, rubbish, junk, and the like
 
   
11-323   Penalties
§ 11-300 AUTHORIZATION OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   In order to protect the public health and general welfare of the
residences of this municipality, the governing body may enact and enforce
ordinances for the provision of service to collect and dispose of domestic,
commercial, or industrial solid wastes from units located within the corporate
boundaries of this municipality.
   (B)   This section is not to be interpreted in a manner so as to present the
governing body of this municipality from entering into a contractual agreement
with a private supplier of solid waste collection and/or disposal services. Nor
is the above intended to prevent this municipality from entering into an
agreement with other governmental jurisdiction at some time in the future. Any
agreement flowing out of the authorization of this section will be achieved in
a manner consistent with state requirements with regard to the establishment of
rate structures and penalties to the abuse of service.
(Prior Code, § 11-300)
§ 11-301 PRIVATE SCAVENGERS, AND THE LIKE, NOT TO DO BUSINESS IN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the city, or its designee, to
engage in or conduct the business of collection, removal, or disposal of
refuse, raw garbage, or prepared garbage within the city, and private
scavengers, pushcart operators, and private garbage collectors are hereby
prohibited from engaging in the business of transport or disposing of raw or
prepared garbage and refuse containing organic wastes, putrid matter, and
wastes or excreta subject to purification from the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)
§ 11-302 DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of refuse in any quantity by any person in any place, public or
private, other that at the site or sites designated for refuse disposal by the
governing body, is expressly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-302)
§ 11-303 OPERATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.
   Any operator, whether of a public or private nature, of a solid waste
disposal site which is located within the corporate boundaries of this
municipality must operate and maintain such site in such a manner as to qualify
the disposal site as a sanitary landfill as defined by the State Health
Department and Public Law of the United States Code, and any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant to such legislated authority.
(Prior Code, § 911-303)
§ 11-304 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   All persons within the municipality are hereby required to keep their
premises in a clean and sanitary condition, free from accumulation of refuse,
except when stored as provided in this article.
(Prior Code, § 11-304)
§ 11-305 MANDATORY DISPOSAL; PROOF REQUIRED; PENALTY IMPOSED.
   (A)   Each person occupying a residence or operating a business
establishment in this municipality shall either:
      (1)   Subscribe to and use a solid waste service and pay the fees
established therefor; or
      (2)   Provide proper proof that said person properly disposes of solid
waste at least once within every 30-day period at approved solid waste
facilities, or in any other lawful manner.
   (B)   Each person that disposes of solid waste, other than subscribing to a
solid waste service, must show proof, each 30-day period, of disposal by lawful
manner to the City Recorder.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section by not lawfully
disposing of his or her solid waste, or failing to provide proper proof that he
or she lawfully disposes of his or her solid waste at least once a month, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction, he or she is subject to a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code§ 22C-4-10) (Prior Code, § 11-305)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5
§ 11-306 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE FOR COLLECTION.
   Preparation of garbage for collection to be prescribed by the supplier of
collection and those standards complied with.
(Prior Code, § 11-306)
§ 11-307 STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to store, or permit the
storage of, bury, throw out, deposit, or place any garbage or refuse upon any
street, sidewalk, gutter, or private property, or any other such place, whether
owned by such person or not, or to deposit garbage anywhere within the city, or
the premises occupied by him or her, except as provided by in this article. All
garbage and refuse shall be stored in a vessel, can, or tank which shall be
leak proof and watertight, and kept in such condition and which is fitted with
covers so closely fitted that no odor can escape there from, such tops not to
be removed except long enough to put such garbage into such vessel, can, or
tank and replaced immediately thereafter. All containers are to be made of a
durable plastic or metal designed to be used for the storage of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 11-307)
§ 11-308 WHERE RECEPTACLES TO BE KEPT; DUTY TO EMPTY AND CLEAN RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   All garbage receptacles shall be kept in the rear of any building, or
in the basement or other area, or in an enclosure where they will not
constitute a nuisance or be offensive to the public, neighboring occupants, or
occupants of the property on which they are located, and where they will not
permit the gathering of flies.
   (B)   All garbage receptacles shall be emptied and their contents removed to
an approved dumping area not less frequently than as required by § 11-305.
Whenever any such garbage receptacles become foul, they shall be replaced or
treated with some disinfecting solution.
(Prior Code, § 11-308)
§ 11-309 CONTAINERS USED FOR COLLECTION.
   Containers used for collection shall conform to a size and weight
established by the supplier of collection and standards complied with.
(Prior Code, § 11-309)
§ 11-310 STORAGE ON PUBLIC WAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall accumulate or store garbage, rubbish, refuse, trash, brush,
leaves, tree, and shrubbery trimmings, refuse receptacle, bulk container,
construction waste, or building material, or any other item of waste or
recyclable material for collection or otherwise, on any street, sidewalk, lane,
or right-of-way, except during the day for scheduled collection.
(Prior Code, § 11-310)
§ 11-311 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION.
   All accumulations of refuse and trash shall be placed for collection in
accordance with the following.
   (A)   Public streets. No refuse, trash, brush, leaves, or tree and shrubbery
trimmings refuse receptacle or bulk container shall be placed within the
vehicular travel-way, in the gutter of any street, or in the vehicular travel-
way in areas not having curbs and gutters.
   (B)   Public sidewalks. Refuse, trash, brush, leaves, or tree and shrubbery
trimmings refuse receptacle or bulk container may be placed on the sidewalk on
the day of collection so long as it does not unreasonably interfere with
pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   Public alleys. Refuse, trash, brush, leaves, or tree and shrubbery
trimmings refuse receptacle or bulk container may be placed in a public alley
on the day of collection so long as it does not unreasonably interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 11-311)
§ 11-312 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SUPERVISION.
   All refuse accumulated within the corporate limits shall be collected,
conveyed and disposed of under the supervision of such officer as the governing
body shall designate. Collections shall be made regularly in accordance with an
announced schedule.
(Prior Code, § 11-312)
§ 11-313 DELIVERY OF REFUSE UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to deliver refuse to or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 11-313)
§ 11-314 POST COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   Refuse receptacles returned to the curbside after collection shall be
removed to the approved storage location by the end of day of collection, and
any spilled or left over material removed. The property owner or occupant shall
be responsible for such removal.
(Prior Code, § 11-314)
§ 11-315 DISTURBING CONTAINERS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, ruffle, rifle, pilfer, dig into, turn
over, or in any other manner disturb or use any refuse container belonging to
another. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of public
containers for their intended purpose.
(Prior Code, § 11-315)
§ 11-316 THROWING, SCATTERING, OR DELIVERING REFUSE UPON ANY PREMISES, STREET,
OR PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or scatter any garbage,
rubbish, or other refuse over or upon any premises or street, either public or
private, or adjacent to such place, either with or without the intention to
later remove or burn the material; or to permit, from the accumulation of
refuse, any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by such person to become or
remain offensive, unsanitary, or unsightly, or unsafe, to public health or
hazardous from fire; or to burn such garbage, rubbish, trash, or other refuse
within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-316)
§ 11-317 DISPLAY OF DECALS.
   Decals shall be displayed as prescribed by the service provided and visible
by city officers.
(Prior Code, § 11-317)
§ 11-318 CUSTOMER LIST TO BE PROVIDED TO CITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of service providers to furnish a list of
customers to the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 11-318)
§ 11-319 DUTY OF CONTRACTORS TO REMOVE DEBRIS; COLLECTION OF REFUSE FROM LOTS.
   Building contractors, excavators, and other persons who, in the course of
their respective businesses, cause debris or refuse of any kind to accumulate
upon any street or at any other place within the city shall remove and dispose
of such debris or refuse within 48 hours of notification by the city or, as
directed by a city officer, before it becomes a hazard to the public health,
safety, or welfare, and at the completion of each project shall remove and
dispose of all such debris and refuse in a sanitary and lawful manner. When
debris or refuse accumulates on any lot so as to become a nuisance and is not
subject to removal by any contractor or other person, as provided in this
section, the city, after notice to the property owner to do so and his or her
failure to comply within a reasonable time, may collect and dispose of such
debris and refuse; and the cost of such collection and disposal shall become a
charge against the owner of such lot, and shall be collected in any manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-319)
§ 11-320 FALLEN TREES, STUMPS, AND DEBRIS WHICH ARE ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Fallen trees, stumps, and debris which are on the public right-of-way shall
be collected and disposed of by the city, and the cost of such collection and
disposition may be charged to the owner of the property upon which such trees,
stumps, and debris originated. Fallen trees, stumps, and debris not on a public
right-of-way shall be removed promptly and disposed of in a sanitary and lawful
manner by the owner or occupants of the properties upon which they are
situated.
(Prior Code, § 11-320)
§ 11-321 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DUMPSTERS.
   No person without authorization shall dump garbage or trash, or assist in
the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash, in a dumpster or other solid
waste container which is located on the property of another person and leased,
or otherwise owned or maintained, by another person. The act of throwing
isolated objects into a dumpster or other solid waste container in the
prevention or elimination of litter is specifically exempted from any penalties
under this section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-53) (Prior Code, § 11-321)
§ 11-322 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, REFUSE, RUBBISH, JUNK, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Highways, Director of Department of Natural
Resources, and the City Street Superintendent, and the court for the city,
shall be the responsible agencies for administration and enforcement of
regulations relating to maintenance of cleanliness and improvement of
appearances on and along streets, roads, alleys, and other public areas or ways
in the city.
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit, dump, or throw, or cause to be placed,
deposited, dumped, or thrown, any litter, garbage, refuse, trash, can, bottle,
paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any dead animal or any part
thereof, offal, or any other offensive or unsightly matter in or upon any
public or private highway, road, street, or alley, or upon the surface of any
land within 100 yards thereof, without the consent of the owner, or in or upon
any private property into or upon which the public is admitted by easement or
license, or upon any private property without the consent of the owner, or in
or upon any public park or other public property other than in such place as
may be set aside for such purpose by the governing body having charge thereof.
   (C)   If any such materials are thrown, cast, dumped, or discharged from a
motor vehicle in violation of the provisions hereof, such action shall be
deemed prima facie evidence that the owner and driver of such motor vehicle
intended to violate the provisions of this section.
   (D)   No portion of this section shall be construed to restrict a private
owner in the use of his or her own private property, or to prohibit the
disposal of materials designated in this section in any manner authorized by
law.
   (E)   Any law enforcement officer who shall observe a person violating the
provisions of this section shall have a mandatory duty to make an arrest, or
otherwise prosecute the violator to the limits provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-322)
§ 11-323 PENALTIES.
   Any person, for any violation of §§
11-304 through
11-311, and §
11-314, for a first offense shall be notified with a written notice of warning
and given a copy of this article, from the City Recorder, Mayor, or Chief of
Police. A second offense shall be a misdemeanor and a fine of $200 shall be
imposed. A third offense and other subsequent offenses, shall be fined $500.
Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. All
other sections of this article shall be governed by §
11-16.
(Prior Code, § 11-323)
ARTICLE 4: PUBLIC RECREATION
Section
   
11-400   Board of Park Commissioners; creation; qualifications; term;
vacancies; powers and duties
   
11-401   Municipality, Board of Park Commissioners; authority to adopt rules
and regulations, other Commission rules; hours of operation, penalties
   
11-402   Rules and regulations for the city parks and recreation facilities
§ 11-400 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS; CREATION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM;
VACANCIES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established and continued the City Board of Park and
Recreation Commissioners, which shall be a public corporate body as provided by
W. Va. Code § 8-21, as amended.
   (B)   The management, control, and operation of Tracy Lake Park of said city
shall be vested in the Pennsboro Board of Park and Recreation Commissions.
   (C)   The Park Board shall consist of six persons, each of whom shall be
citizens, residents, and owners of real property within the city, and shall be
persons of outstanding reputation, ability, and integrity in said city, and
membership shall consist of five residents at large within the city limits and
one member of the governing body of the city, and shall be appointed by the
governing body of said city. Membership on the city governing body may not
disqualify any member for selection to the Park Board. The Mayor of said city
shall notify all appointees of their selection. The term of the Park Board
membership of any member of the city governing body so appointed shall continue
during his or her term as a member of the city governing body, and until his or
her successor is appointed or elected and qualified. The terms of other
appointed Park Board members shall be for six years, and until their successors
have been duly appointed and qualified; provided, that the terms of the members
of the Park Board first appointed shall be for one, two, three, four, and five
years respectively, from the first day of the month in which appointed. In the
event of a vacancy, and also within 30 days after the expiration of the term of
office of any member of the Park Board, a successor shall be appointed by the
governing body of the city. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term only and all other appointments shall be for a term of six years, and all
members of the Park Board shall continue in office until their successors shall
have been appointed. All members of the present Park Board shall continue in
office until replaced as herein provided. The said Park Board shall adopt
rules, regulations, and by-laws regulating the time and place of its meetings
and the conduct thereof. Any member of the Park Board shall be eligible for re-
appointment upon the expiration of his or her term. The members of the Park
Board shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for any expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties under order, in writing, of the
said Park Board. Each member of the Park Board shall be removed for just cause
by the governing body of the city by recorded vote of a majority of said
Council after a public hearing thereon. When any member of the Park Board,
during his or her term of office, shall cease to be a resident and freeholder
of the city, he or she shall thereby be disqualified as a member of the Park
Board, and his or her office shall, thereupon, become vacant.
(W. Va. Code § 8-21-3)
   (D)   (1)   After appointment, the members of the Board shall qualify by
taking and filing with the Recorder of the city the oath prescribed by law for
public officials, and they shall not be permitted to serve upon said Park Board
until they have so qualified. If any member of said Park Board shall fail to so
qualify on or before the date upon which he or she should assume the duties of
his or her office, a vacancy shall exist which shall be filled as provided in
division (C) above.
(W. Va. Code § 8-21-5)
      (2)   At the first meeting held after the first Park Board has been
appointed, and annually thereafter, it shall organize by electing one of their
number a President, and another Vice President, and by electing a secretary who
need not be a member of the Park Board. The Secretary shall take the oath as
prescribed by law and shall furnish such bond as may be required by said Park
Board. The Secretary shall keep an accurate record of all the fiscal affairs of
the Park Board, and shall keep a minute book in which he or she shall record
the proceedings and transactions of each meeting of the Park Board, and a copy
of those minutes shall be provided from each meeting to the City Recorder,
which shall be available for inspection as other municipal records. The
President shall preside at all meetings when present and shall call special
meetings on his or her own motion, or when requested so to do by any two
members of the Park Board. In the absence of the President, the Vice President
shall exercise all the duties and functions of the President.
(W. Va. Code § 8-21)
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall be ex officio Treasurer of said Park
Board, and he or she shall take the oath prescribed by law and shall furnish
such bond as may be required by said Park Board.
(W. Va. Code § 8-21-5)
   (E)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have full and
complete supervision, management, operation, and control of Tracy Lake Park of
said city, including the maintenance, operations, improvements, and extension
thereof, and shall have power and authority to make all contracts and
agreements necessary and proper for the full and complete performance of its
duties as herein set forth and as provided and regulated by law.
   (F)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have power to
employ, fix the compensation of and discharge all employees of said park
system, and may require any such employee, before entering upon his or her
employment, to furnish and file with the City Recorder his or her bond in such
penalty and with such surety as the Park Board may Direct, each bond to be
payable to the said Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners and conditioned
as to the faithful performance of their respective duties as fixed by the Park
Board, this section, the Charter of said city, and according to law.
   (G)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have the right to
use such facilities, equipment, and materials of the city under such contracts,
conditions, and agreements with the Council of said city as are authorized by
the Charter and ordinances of the said city.
   (H)   In the event that all or any part of the real and personal property
comprising Tracy Lake Park be sold, the proceeds from such sale shall be used
by said Park Board in the maintenance and operation of the remaining Tracy Lake
Park, or to purchase, improve, or operate some other recreational facility
dedicated to the use of the general public of the said city.
   (I)   The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have all other
powers and duties provided by W. Va. Code § 8-21, 1931, as amended.
(W. Va. Code § 8-21-14)
   (J)   The Commission or Commissioners of the Board of Park and Recreation
Commission, appointed by the City Council, shall have no authority to sell,
trade, giveaway, transfer, or deed to another, or in any way dispose of any
real property, or shall incur any form of indebtedness without first obtaining
consent of the governing body of the city.
(W. Va. Code § 8-21-14)
(Prior Code, § 11-400)
§ 11-401 MUNICIPALITY, BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS; AUTHORITY TO ADOPT RULES
AND REGULATIONS, OTHER COMMISSION RULES; HOURS OF OPERATION, PENALTIES.
   (A)   Authority to adopt rules and regulations.
      (1)   The City Council and the City Board of Park Commissioners shall
designate rules and regulations pertaining to the park and recreational
facility’s use. Upon Council approval of such rules and regulations by
ordinance, the city and Board of Park Commissioners is authorized and empowered
to enforce such rules and regulations. Violation shall be subject to the
penalties provided in Municipal Ordinance 9-30(D).
      (2)   No person in any park, recreation facility, or property of the city
shall cause any breach of the peace, disturbance, or create any nuisance; post
any private notice or advertisement therein or on any fence, post, or tree
thereof; violate any notice or card, or rules or regulations posted in or
adopted by the city, about any park, recreational facility, or property under
authority of the city; injure, mutilate, or deface any tree, shrub, flower,
building, structure, fence, property, or other thing in or about any park or
city recreation facility or property; throw at, shoot at, kill, or injure any
bird, animal, or pet of any kind in, or belonging to, any park or city
property; or violate any of the rules or regulations made for the government of
any park or city property, or violate any lawful order of the city or Board of
Park Commissioners.
   (B)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   No person may be in or on municipal property during the hours of
closure as posted without the express permission of the Mayor, City Recorder,
municipal police, or a Board of Park Commissioner member.
      (2)   All city property shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
throughout the year, unless other otherwise posted.
      (3)   Hours may be adjusted or established by resolution of City Council.
      (4)   Hours of operating shall be posted conspicuously at all entrances
to property.
      (5)   A violation of any rule, or destruction of signs or property, or
vandalism, shall be a misdemeanor and punishable under division (C) below.
   (C)   Rules, hours of operation of parks. The Board of Park Commissioners
shall establish rules and hours of operation for public parks and recreational
facilities under their authority. The hours may prohibit use of certain
facilities at certain times. No person shall make use of public parks and
recreations facilities during prohibited hours.
      (1)   The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the right to promulgate
rules and regulations for the operation of public park and recreation
facilities under its authority and the activities therein. A violation of any
park rule, or destruction of signs or property, or vandalism, shall be a
misdemeanor and punishable under division (E) below. Such rules and regulations
shall be posted at such park and recreation facilities and available for review
in the office of the City Recorder.
      (2)   Hours of operation shall be posted conspicuously at all entrances
or recreation facilities.
      (3)   Copies of all park regulations shall be furnished to the City
Council, City Recorder, Police Department, and Municipal Court.
   (D)   Vehicle regulations on Board, Park, Commission, and city property.
      (1)   The speed limit for motor vehicles is 25 mph in/on city property,
city park and recreation areas, streets unless otherwise posted. MOTOR VEHICLE
means any automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, or any other form of mechanical
transportation. All traffic laws, signs, and directions shall be strictly
observed. Driving of motor vehicles in any manner that creates a nuisance to
any guest by repetitive or continuous cruising or operation is prohibited.
      (2)   As used in this section, BOARD means the city or any of the city’s
boards, authorities, or commissions, the City Park (Tracy Lake) and Recreation
Board(s), and VEHICLE means any automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, or any other
form of mechanical transportation.
      (3)   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or
propelled, along or over any roadway or other property under the supervision of
the Board at a greater rate of speed than as posted by the Board or the city.
      (4)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on any roadway or on any
other property within park areas under the supervision of the Board, except as
designated parking areas. No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on unpaved
areas within the park areas or on areas of the roadway designated for travel of
vehicles, or on paved areas not designated for parking, except on occasion when
such area is specifically designated as a parking or driving area, whichever
applies, by the Board or the city.
   (E)   Violations. Any person violating any provision of this article or any
ordinance, rule, or regulation duly adopted by the city, City Board of Park
Commissioners, or other commissions of the city shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be fined no less than $50 or no more than $1,000.
      (1)   In addition, such person may be ejected from the park, building, or
other facility wherein the violation occurred.
      (2)   The replacement cost of any sign or property vandalized or
destroyed shall be included in any fine.
      (3)   Any drug related violation pertaining to the above shall carry a
minimum fine of $200 and a maximum of $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 13-1120, passed - -)
§ 11-402 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE CITY PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hours of operation for the city parks and recreation facilities are as
follows.
      (1)   The city park picnic and general use area shall be closed from the
hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   The Tracy Lake area shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Night fishing is permitted. The city park shooting range shall be closed from
dusk until dawn.
      (3)   These hours shall not apply to law enforcement, city maintenance
workers during the performance of their official duties, and those with a
special permit.
   (B)   Fires may be lighted only in a fireplace or other facility constructed
for a fire; or use a charcoal grill or a gasoline or gas stove, or fire rings
or grills, provided by the city park. Those persons responsible for a fire
shall extinguish it completely before leaving it. Ashes, charcoal briquettes,
and other materials used for a fire shall be left in the fire ring or grill,
and shall not be strewn over the ground.
   (C)   Loud or excessive noise, demonstrations, disturbances, disorderly
conduct, profanity, public drunkenness, and the possession or use of controlled
substances is prohibited.
   (D)   Garbage, waste, bottles, cans, paper, junk, or any other trash or
refuse shall be deposited in trash containers. It shall not be dumped,
deposited, or strewn within the boundary of the city park.
   (E)   Dogs and cats are the only pets permitted in the city park. They shall
be restrained at all times on a sturdy leash not to exceed ten feet in length.
The owner or master shall clean up the pet’s excreta, keep it quiet and from
disturbing other guests, and is responsible for all damages it causes.
   (F)   Horseback riding is permitted only on roads normally open to public
travel, and designated routes and areas as posted on the area.
      (1)   No person shall bring or allow horses in designated camping areas.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the removal and disposal of any
waste produced by the animals.
      (3)   Feed shall be restricted to locally obtained or pelletized horse
feed.
   (G)   Fireworks, explosives, incendiaries, flammables, and other dangerous
substances are prohibited in the city park.
   (H)   Uncased firearms, uncased bows, and uncased arrows are prohibited in
the city park, except in the shooting range.
   (I)   The city park assumes no responsibility for any personal property. If
personal property is abandoned or left unattended by park guests for more than
48 hours, it will be removed from the public use area and disposed of according
to law.
   (J)   Hawking, peddling, soliciting, begging, advertising, or carrying on
any business or commercial enterprise is prohibited in the city park without
the written permission of from the Park Board.
   (K)   Fishing and boating are permitted in the park lake only in accordance
with state law. Only trolling motors are permitted in Tracy Lake, no gasoline
motors are permitted. Night fishing is permitted.
   (L)   The speed limit for motor vehicles is 25 mph in the city park, except
where a lower speed limit is posted. All traffic laws, signs, and directions
shall be strictly observed. Driving of motor vehicles in any manner that
creates a nuisance to any guest by repetitive or continuous cruising or
operation is prohibited.
   (M)   Motor vehicles must stay on designated roads and parking lots. It is
unlawful for any unauthorized motor vehicle to go beyond a gate, cable, or
other obstruction, or to proceed beyond any sign prohibiting such travel. All
persons operating motor vehicles in the city park shall obey and comply with
all applicable state laws and rules.
   (N)   Camping shall not be permitted except in a designated area.
(Prior Code, § 11-402)
CHAPTER 12: POLICE DEPARTMENT
   Article
      
0.   GENERAL
      
1.   ORGANIZATION
      
2.   POWERS AND DUTIES
      
3.   LIMITATION OF OFFICERS
ARTICLE 0: GENERAL
Section
   
12-1   Establishment of Police Department
   
12-2   Subject to authority of; chain of command; obedience to orders
   
12-3   Maintaining
   
12-4   Definitions
   
12-5   Certification
   
12-6   Reimbursement agreement
   
12-7   Education/training
   
12-8   Vacation
   
12-9   Bond
§ 12-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The City Council, in order to protect persons and property within the city,
to preserve law and order therein, and to enforce therein the criminal laws of
this state and ordinances of the municipality, does hereby establish a
Municipal Police Department; hereafter known as the City Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
§ 12-2 SUBJECT TO AUTHORITY OF; CHAIN OF COMMAND; OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS.
   It is also established that the City Police Department is subject to the
control and authority of the Mayor for the city. The chain of command shall be
the Mayor, Chief of Police, and other members of the Police Department
according to rank and seniority within rank. All members of the Police
Department shall faithfully obey all lawful orders of their superiors in the
chain of command.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)
§ 12-3 MAINTAINING.
   The governing body shall provide all necessary equipment needed to maintain
such a Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 12-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING ACADEMY. Any training facility which is
approved and authorized to conduct law enforcement training, as provided in
this article.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE. The Superintendent of the State Police; the Chief Natural
Resources Police Officer of the Division of Natural Resources; the Sheriff of
any state county; any administrative deputy appointed by the Chief Natural
Resources Police Officer of the Division of Natural Resources; or the Chief of
any state municipal law enforcement agency.
   COUNTY. The 55 major political subdivisions of the state.
   EXEMPT RANK. Any non-commissioned or commissioned rank of sergeant or above.
   GOVERNOR’S COMMITTEE ON CRIME, DELINQUENCY, AND CORRECTION or GOVERNOR’S
COMMITTEE. The Governor’s Committee on Crime, Delinquency, and Correction
established as a state planning agency pursuant to W. Va. Code § 15-9-1.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any duly authorized member of a law-enforcement
agency who is authorized to maintain public peace and order, prevent and detect
crime, make arrests, and enforce the laws of the state or any county or
municipality thereof, other than parking ordinances, and includes those persons
employed as campus police officers at state institutions of higher education in
accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 18B-4-5, persons employed as
hospital police officers in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 16-
5B-19, and persons employed by the Public Service Commission as motor carrier
inspectors and weight-enforcement officers charged with enforcing commercial
motor vehicle safety and weight restriction laws, although those institutions
and agencies may not be considered law-enforcement agencies. The term also
includes those persons employed as county litter control officers charged with
enforcing litter laws who have been trained and certified as law-enforcement
officers and whose certification is currently active. The term also includes
those persons employed as rangers by resort area districts in accordance with
the provisions of W. Va. Code § 7-25-23, although no resort area district may
be considered a law-enforcement agency; provided, that the subject rangers
shall pay the tuition and costs of training. As used in this article, the term
LAW-ENFORCEMENT OFFICER does not apply to the chief executive of any West
Virginia law-enforcement agency, or to any watchman or special natural
resources police officer, or to any litter control officer who is authorized
and trained under the provisions of W. Va. Code § 7-1-3ff(d), but is not
trained and currently certified as a LAW-ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The duly appointed chief administrator of a
designated law enforcement agency, or a duly authorized designee.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any incorporated town or city whose boundaries lie within the
geographic boundaries of the state.
   SUBCOMMITTEE or LAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS SUBCOMMITTEE. The
subcommittee of the Governor’s Committee on Crime, Delinquency, and Correction
created by the state code.
   STATE LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Any duly authorized state, county, or
municipal organization employing one or more persons whose responsibility is
the enforcement of laws of the state or any county or municipality thereof;
provided, neither the Public Service Commission, nor any state institution of
higher education, nor any hospital, nor any resort area district, is a LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
(W. Va. Code § 30-29-1) (Prior Code, § 12-4)
§ 12-5 CERTIFICATION.
   A person may not be employed as a law enforcement officer unless the person
is certified, or is certifiable, in one of the manners specified in W. Va. Code
§ 30-29-5, “Certification requirements and power to decertify or reinstate.”
(W. Va. Code § 30-29-5) (Prior Code, § 12-5)
§ 12-6 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 30-29-8, all law enforcement
officers shall, before attendance at a law enforcement officers’ training
academy, be required to enter into a written agreement with the city, which
agreement shall require and specify that if such employee should voluntarily
discontinue employment with the city within one year immediately following
completion of such training curriculum, such employee shall be obligated to pay
to the city the pro rata portion of the sum of such compensation, which is
equal to the part of such year which the employee has chosen not to remain in
the employ of the city.
(W. Va. Code § 30-29-8) (Prior Code, § 12-6)
§ 12-7 EDUCATION/TRAINING.
   In the event that the city and the officer determine that the officer shall
receive additional training for his or her services as an officer of police,
with the advance approval of the Mayor, the officer may acquire such
educational materials and enroll in such training as the parties may deem
appropriate, with the city to pay the costs thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-7)
§ 12-8 VACATION.
   Vacation will be taken with a request in advance having been made by the
officer, except in the case of an emergency, to his or her proper supervisor.
The officer will make such arrangements as may be necessary to inform others of
their pending vacation to ensure coverage.
(Prior Code, § 12-8)
§ 12-9 BOND.
   The city will arrange for a bond for the carrying by the officer of a
firearm, and will arrange for general police liability insurance for the
benefit of the parties, in such amounts as the city, in its sole discretion,
deems appropriate at the expense of the city. No cause of action shall lie,
however, in favor of the officer and against the city in the event that the
city does not procure such bond or insurance, or in the event that the
insurance procured is subsequently determined to be insufficient to cover the
risks for which it was purchased.
(Prior Code, § 12-9)
ARTICLE 1: ORGANIZATION
Section
   
12-100   Qualifications
   
12-101   Application
   
12-102   Physical exams
   
12-103   Appointment of police officers
   
12-104   Oath of office
   
12-105   Obedience to orders of superiors
   
12-106   Personnel/police manual
   
12-107   Call for duty
   
12-108   Chief of Police/duties
   
12-109   Special police
   
12-110   Female police officers
   
12-111   Suspension; demotion; discharge; appeal
§ 12-100 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All applicants for positions on the City Police Department shall be
willing to be residents of the city or reside within a five-mile radius of the
corporate limits, unless waived by the governing body.
   (B)   Not less than 18, nor more than 65, years of age, of sound mind, of
good moral character, and shall be required to pass any examinations the
governing body may deem necessary.
   (C)   No person shall be barred from employment with the City Police
Department because of his or her race, color, creed, national origin, sex,
religion, or political conviction.
(Prior Code, § 12-100)
§ 12-101 APPLICATION.
   Each applicant must secure and file an application for employment to the
City Police Department with the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
§ 12-102 PHYSICAL EXAMS.
   All applicants for positions on the City Police Department shall submit, if
required, to a physical examination by a physician licensed in this state.
Written certification of the applicant’s good health must be submitted to the
governing body before his or her employment can commence.
(Prior Code, § 12-102)
§ 12-103 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Members of the Municipal Police Department shall be appointed by the Mayor
subject to prior approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
§ 12-104 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   All members of the City Police Department, before entering upon the
discharge of their duties, shall take and subscribe to an oath, which shall be
in the form and effect as follows:
 
“State of West Virginia, City of Pennsboro, to wit:
 
I, ____________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, the Constitution of the State of West Virginia and the municipal
code of the City of Pennsboro, and I will honestly and faithfully perform the
duties imposed upon me under the provisions of law as a member of the Pennsboro
Police Department, to the best of my skill and judgment.”
 
   (B)   All such oaths shall be filed and preserved in the office of the City
Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 12-104)
§ 12-105 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF SUPERIORS.
   Each police officer shall obey the lawful orders of his or her superiors in
the chain of command.
(Prior Code, § 12-105)
§ 12-106 PERSONNEL/POLICE MANUAL.
   (A)   Each member of the Police Department shall be obedient to, and comply
with, the provisions of the city personnel manual and/or police manual
applicable to the position, and any other rules or regulations of the Police
Department.
   (B)   The manuals shall be subject to amendment from time to time by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 12-106)
§ 12-107 CALL FOR DUTY.
   Every member of the Police Department shall be subject to call for duty at
any time and, whether assigned a specific duty or not, it shall always be the
duty of all members, as far as possible, to preserve the peace and to arrest
all offenders.
(Prior Code, § 12-107)
§ 12-108 CHIEF OF POLICE/DUTIES.
   The office of the Chief of Police is hereby established.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to prior
approval of the governing body.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is subject to the statutory authority of the
Mayor, and shall be the head of the Police Department and commanding officer of
the police force of the town.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall serve as the executive and
administrative head of the City Police Department and be responsible for
training, discipline, and morals of the personnel of the Police Department.
      (2)   He or she shall be responsible for their effective employment to
prevent crime, apprehend law violators, maintain law and order, and enforce
state law and the ordinances of the city.
   (D)   He or she shall see to it that all fees and other money collected by
members of the Police Department are promptly turned over to the Municipal
Recorder, or otherwise disposed of according to law.
   (E)   He or she may advise the Mayor and the governing body as to the
appointment of additional members to the Municipal Police Department.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of the Department as may be required by the governing
body or statute.
   (G)   The Chief shall be responsible for the performance of the Police
Department. All persons who are members of the Police Department shall serve
subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
   (H)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Chief of Police, the Mayor
may designate from the City Police Department an acting Chief of Police, who
shall temporarily assume the duties of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 12-108)
§ 12-109 SPECIAL POLICE.
   (A)   The Mayor, at his or her discretion and subject to the approval of the
governing body, may appoint special police officers whenever the funds are
available to do so.
   (B)   Such special police may include, but are not limited to, school zones,
parking lots, or parking building officers. In performing their duties, special
police shall be vested with the powers and duties described in Article 2 of
this chapter. They shall also be subject to the qualifications listed under §
12-100.
(Prior Code, § 12-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-14-5 and 8-14-5a
§ 12-110 FEMALE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of the governing body,
one or more women as police officers. They shall be subject to the
qualifications listed in §
12-100 of this chapter. Such female police officers shall have the entire care
and control of all women under arrest by the Municipal Police Department.
   (B)   Whenever a woman is arrested and taken to a police station to which a
female police officer is attached, and when a female police officer is not
present, it shall be the duty of the officer in charge of the police station to
cause a female police officer to be summoned immediately. It shall be the duty
of said female police officer to hold herself in readiness at all hours of the
day and night to answer all calls from the police station so long as any woman
is or remains confined there.
   (C)   The female police officer shall attend all sessions of city court at
all times whenever any woman is to be arraigned there, and the female police
officer shall have charge of all women in attendance at said court, whether
awaiting trial or awaiting transfer to any other place of detention.
   (D)   Every station to which a female police officer is attached shall
provide sufficient and proper accommodations for all women under arrest or
confined there.
(W. Va. Code § 8-14-4) (Prior Code, § 12-110)
§ 12-111 SUSPENSION; DEMOTION; DISCHARGE; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may suspend, demote, or discharge from the Police
Department any member of the police force, or the Mayor may suspend, demote, or
discharge the Chief for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Refusing to obey the orders of his or her superior officer;
      (2)   Neglect of duty;
      (3)   Drunkenness;
      (4)   Inefficiency; or
      (5)   Any other cause the Chief of Police or Mayor may determine to be
necessary for the good of the Police Department.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or Mayor may discharge any member of the Municipal
Police Department who violates any of the provisions the personnel policies of
Chapter 2, Article 8 of this code, or violates the State Codes pertaining to
police officers.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police or Mayor orders any member of the Police
Department suspended, demoted, or discharged a written statement of the charges
and a written order of suspension, demotion, or discharge shall be delivered
personally to the member by his or her commanding officer or the Mayor. The
written statement of charges must explicitly provide the details giving rise to
the cause or causes upon which the order of suspension, demotion, or discharge
was promulgated. The member may appeal the Chief of Police’s or Mayor’s order
of suspension, demotion, or discharge to the governing body which shall cause a
hearing as provided by W. Va. Code § 8-14A-3 which may sustain or reverse said
order. All applicable rules of W. Va. Code § 8-14A shall apply.
(W. Va. Code §§ 8-14A-1, 8-14A-2, 8-14A-3, 8-14A-4, 8-14A-5) (Prior Code, § 12-
111)
ARTICLE 2: POWERS AND DUTIES
Section
   
12-200   Powers, authority, and duties of law enforcement officials and police
officers
   
12-201   Members of Police Department to wear uniforms and be armed
   
12-202   Officer may require assistance in making an arrest and fleeing;
penalty
   
12-203   Duty of police officers to respond to fire alarms and assist in Fire
Department
   
12-204   Records
§ 12-200 POWERS, AUTHORITY, AND DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS AND POLICE
OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief and any member of the police force or Department of the
municipality, and any municipal sergeant, shall have all of the powers,
authority, rights, and privileges within the corporate limits of the
municipality with regard to the arrest of persons, the collection of claims,
and the execution and return of any search warrant, warrant of arrest, or other
process, which can legally be exercised or discharged by a Deputy Sheriff of a
county. In order to arrest for the violation of municipal ordinances, and as to
all matters arising within the corporate limits and coming within the scope of
his or her official duties, the powers of any Chief, police officer, or
sergeant shall extend anywhere within the county or counties in which the
municipality is located, and any such Chief, police officer, or sergeant shall
have the same authority of pursuit and arrest beyond his or her normal
jurisdiction as has a Sheriff. For an offense committed in his or her presence,
any such officer may arrest the offender without a warrant and take him or her
before the Mayor or police court, or Municipal Court, to be dealt with
according to law. He or she, and his or her sureties, shall be liable to all
the fines, penalties, and forfeitures which a Deputy Sheriff is liable to, for
any failure or dereliction in such office, to be recovered in the same manner
and in the same courts in which such fines, penalties, and forfeitures are
recovered against a Deputy Sheriff. In addition to the Mayor, or Police Court
Judge or Municipal Court Judge, if any, of a city, the Chief of Police of any
municipality, and in the absence from the station house of the Chief of Police,
the captains of police and lieutenants of police, shall each have authority to
administer oaths to complainants and to issue arrest warrants thereon for all
violations of the ordinances of such municipality.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor and police officers of every
municipality, and any municipal sergeant to aid in the enforcement of the
criminal laws of the state within the municipality, independently of any
Charter provision or any ordinance, or lack of an ordinance with respect
thereto, and to cause the arrest of or arrest any offender, and take him or her
before a magistrate to be dealt with according to the law. Failure on the part
of any such official or officer to discharge any duty imposed by the provisions
of this section shall be deemed official misconduct, for which he or she may be
removed from office. Any such official or officer shall have the same authority
to execute a warrant issued by a magistrate, and the same authority to arrest
without a warrant for offenses committed in his or her presence, as a Deputy
Sheriff.
   (C)   (1)   No officer, or member of the police force or Department of a
municipality, may aid or assist either party in any labor trouble or dispute
between employer and employee.
      (2)   They shall, in such cases, see that the statutes and laws of this
state and municipal ordinances are enforced in a legal way and manner. Nor
shall he or she engage in off-duty police work for any party engaged in or
involved in such labor dispute or trouble between employer and employee.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall be charged with the keeping and security of
the jail, and at any time that one or more prisoners are being held in the
jail, he or she shall require that the jail be attended by a police officer or
other responsible person.
(W. Va. Code § 8-14-3) (Prior Code, § 12-200)
§ 12-201 MEMBERS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO WEAR UNIFORMS AND BE ARMED.
   (A)   All members of the Police Department shall also have the authority to
wear such uniform and badge as the governing body may prescribe. No alterations
or changes to uniforms, patches, or insignia shall be made until approved by
the governing body.
   (B)   The members of the Municipal Police Department shall have the power
and authority to carry a service pistol and other necessary and lawful
equipment while on duty as directed by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 12-201)
§ 12-202 OFFICER MAY REQUIRE ASSISTANCE IN MAKING AN ARREST AND FLEEING;
PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever it is reasonably necessary to effectuate an arrest, a member
of the Police Department may request the aid of any person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to willfully refuse such aid or flee
as provided for in Chapter 9, Article 7.
(Prior Code, § 12-202)
§ 12-203 DUTY OF POLICE OFFICERS TO RESPOND TO FIRE ALARMS AND ASSIST IN FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the City Police Department, when available, to
respond to fire alarms and assist the Fire Department in the protection of life
and property of the citizens, the Fire Department, and controlling traffic and
maintaining order.
(Prior Code, § 12-203)
§ 12-204 RECORDS.
   The Police Department shall keep a comprehensive and detailed daily record,
in permanent form, showing:
   (A)   All known or reported offenses and/or crimes committed within the
corporate limits;
   (B)   All arrests made by police officers; and
   (C)   All police investigations made and all other miscellaneous activities
of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-204)
ARTICLE 3: LIMITATION OF OFFICERS
Section
   
12-300   Retired members not to exercise police authority
§ 12-300 RETIRED MEMBERS NOT TO EXERCISE POLICE AUTHORITY.
   A member who has been or shall be retired shall not, while in retirement,
exercise any of the powers conferred upon active members.
(Prior Code, § 12-300)
CHAPTER 13: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Article
      
0.   GENERAL
      
1.   ACCIDENTS
      
2.   TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
      
3.   SERIOUS TRAFFIC OFFENSES
      
4.   SPEED RESTRICTIONS
      
5.   DRIVING ON RIGHT-SIDE OF ROADWAY
      
6.   TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
      
7.   RIGHT-OF-WAY
      
8.   PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES
      
9.   OPERATION OF BICYCLES, PLAY VEHICLES, AND SAFETY
      
10.   SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
      
11.   MISCELLANEOUS
      
12.   EQUIPMENT
      
13.   SIZE, WEIGHT, LOAD, ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES
      
14.   REGISTRATION, LICENSE, PERMITS
      
15.   COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
      
16.   MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
      
17.   FUNERALS
ARTICLE 0: GENERAL
Section
   
13-1   Meaning of words and phrases
   
13-2   Adoption of state laws by reference
   
13-3   City not liable for damages
   
13-4   Authority of Mayor
   
13-5   Required obedience to traffic laws
   
13-6   Parking
   
13-7   Processions and parades; permit required; exceptions
   
13-8   Driver offenses caused by owner
   
13-9   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
13-10   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
13-11   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
13-12   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
13-13   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
13-14   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
13-15   Failure to obey police officer or special officers
   
13-16   Obedience to chapter of public officers and employees; chapter
inapplicable to persons engaged in highway surface work
   
13-17   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
13-18   Powers of local authorities
   
13-19   Stop, yield, and other traffic signs to be places on specified streets
   
13-20   Severability
 
   
13-21   Penalty
§ 13-1 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, state, county, or
municipal agency, and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers,
flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles,
service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow
removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of
members of ambulance services, and Class A vehicles of members of duly
chartered rescue squads, and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by
the agency responsible for the operation and control of these persons or
organizations. Class A vehicles are as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1.
Agency authorization and emergency equipment are defined in W. Va. Code § 17C-
15-26. Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle
permits may promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of
permits for emergency vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-6)
   AXLE GROUP. An assemblage of two or more consecutive axles considered
together in determining their combined load effect on a bridge or pavement
structure. The determination of what constitutes an axle group may include any
or all the axles on the vehicle or combination of vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-56)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when, within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy
at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both
sides of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
   CONNECTING MECHANISM. An arrangement of parts interconnecting two or more
consecutive axles to the frame of a vehicle in such a manner as to equalize the
load between axles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-59)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
   CROSSWALK. The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Motor Vehicles of this state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-27)
   DIVISION. The Division of Motor Vehicles of this state acting directly or
through its duly authorized officers and agents. Wherever in this chapter
reference is made to “the Department of Motor Vehicles” or “the Department,”
unless a different meaning is clearly required, the reference shall be deemed
to be a reference to the DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-28)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE (EPAMD). A self-balancing, two
non-tandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with an average power of 750 watts (one horse
power), whose maximum speed on a paved level surface when powered solely by
such a propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds is
less than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive, and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects,
or of destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-10)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
   INTERSECTION. Includes:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-42)
   INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION (LEARNING). Shall mean “state colleges,”
“state college,” “state universities” and “universities,” “state university,”
and “university,” and “community college,” as defined in W. Va. Code § 18-26-2,
subsections (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) and any other institution as defined by
§ 401 (F), (G), (H) of the Federal Higher Education Facilities Act of 1963, as
amended.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-61)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of this state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-34)
   METAL TIRE. Every tire the surface of which, in contact with the highway, is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard non-resilient material.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-20)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, unless otherwise specified in
this traffic code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion, and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower, but excludes electric bicycles as defined in W. Va.
Code § 17C-1-70. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor
displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers
in the power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling the
vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road surface,
and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly or
automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator after
the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters, but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee, or mortgagor,
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas, or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
   PASSENGER VAN. Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business,
or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of
children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus, or school bus. PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to,
vehicles used by daycare centers, after-school centers, and nursery schools;
provided, that the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-18)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads, such as poles, pipes,
trusses, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as
beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      (1)   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY means every way or place in private
ownership and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
      (2)   PRIVATE PROPERTY means real estate in private ownership without
regard to the manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
   RAILROAD SIGN or SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official, or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric, or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-22)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with
residences, or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development, or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-11)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such ROADWAY separately, but not to
all such ROADWAYS collectively.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. The land on which a school is built, together with such
other land used by students for play, recreation, or athletic events while
attending school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines, of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-19)
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING.
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
      (2)   When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control sign or signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
   TANDEM AXLE. Any two or more consecutive axles whose centers are more than
40 inches, but not more than 96 inches apart, and are individually attached to
and/or articulated from a common attachment to the vehicle including a
connecting mechanism designed to equalize the load between axles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-57)
   TANDEM AXLE WEIGHT. The total weight transmitted to the road by two or more
consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel transverse
planes spaced more than 40 inches, and not more than 96 inches, apart extending
the full width of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-58)
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway, or portion
thereof, at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same,
and when stop signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances, either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. Any sign, signal marking, and device not
inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or
guiding traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-9)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or non-motorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-1-1
§ 13-2 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS BY REFERENCE.
   All of the laws of the Code of West Virginia of 1931, as amended, including,
but not limited to, W. Va. Chapter 17, Chapter 17A, Chapter 17B, Chapter 17C,
Chapter 17D, Chapter 17E, and all rules, regulations and orders made by the
Public Service Commission, the State Road Commissioner, the Department of Motor
Vehicles, the Department of Public Safety, and the Superintendent of Public
Safety of the state, or any one or more of them, insofar as such rules,
regulations, and orders may relate or apply to traffic upon the public streets
and highways of incorporated villages, towns, and cities, and as they may be
amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated into, as if fully written
herein, and made a part of the city code, so that any offense which would
constitute an offense against the laws of the state shall, if committed within
the territory of the city, likewise be an offense against the city code. The
provisions of this section shall apply to all land which shall be within the
territorial confines of the city, as the same may be extended from time to
time, and upon all lands owned or leased by the city or operated by the
instrumentalities thereof, such as lands operated by the Park Commission of the
city and the City Industrial Commission.
   (A)   Any person charged with the commission of an offense against the city
code, which is incorporated into the city code by the provisions of this
section, shall, upon conviction, be subject to the same fines, costs, and
imprisonment for which provision is made in the aforesaid Code of West
Virginia, as amended, upon conviction in the courts of the state for such
offense; provided, however, that in no circumstances shall the fine imposed
upon conviction of any offense against the city code exceed the sum of $1,000,
nor shall any person who is convicted of an offense against the city code be
subject to imprisonment for more than 30 days.
   (B)   Any offense for which a specific penalty is not provided in the Code
of West Virginia, as amended, as incorporated into the city code by this
section shall, upon conviction, carry a fine and imprisonment as assigned by
this section.
   (C)   Any person convicted of any offense against the city code shall, upon
conviction, pay all court costs as assigned by §
15-500 and the costs of any incarnation as taxed by the Sheriff of the county
or the regional jail.
   (D)   (1)   If and when the legislature of the state shall amend any law of
the state incorporated into the city code by this section, or shall enact a new
statute pertaining to any criminal or traffic offense against the state, such
enactment shall automatically become incorporated into and made part of the
city code unless the Council of the city shall, prior to the thirtieth day
following the effective date of any such legislative enactment, adopt by
resolution a disavowal of incorporation of such legislative enactment.
      (2)   Any provision of the Code of West Virginia, as amended, which shall
be repealed by the legislature of the state or invalidated by the Supreme Court
of Appeals of the state shall simultaneously be repealed from the city code.
All interpretations and constructions of the statutes of the state by its
Supreme Court of Appeals or by the Circuit Court of the county shall govern the
construction and interpretation of the parallel provision of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
§ 13-3 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   The city, its agents, officers, or employees shall not be liable for any
damages to persons or property resulting directly or indirectly from any act
done or preformed under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3)
§ 13-4 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to rent suitable spaces in garages, parking
lots, or elsewhere for the storage and safekeeping of the vehicles impounded
under the provisions of this chapter, and he or she is also authorized to enter
into contracts and agreements for the removal, towing, and storage of vehicles
coming within the provisions hereof, with the persons having equipment suitable
for the hauling away and towing of such vehicles. The Mayor is also authorized
to issue and promulgate any suitable rules and regulations which he or she may
deem proper or necessary in order to fulfill, advance, and carry into effect
the purpose and provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-4)
§ 13-5 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS.
   It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this chapter with respect
to particular offenses, is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in this chapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-2) (Prior Code, § 13-5)
§ 13-6 PARKING.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the authority, by resolution, to regulate
and erect parking signs or fix an amount of time for parking on any city street
and on any state route with the approval of the State Road Commission. A list
of such parking restrictions shall be kept complete by the City Recorder and
furnished to the Chief of Police and Municipal Court.
   (B)   The following is a list, but not limited to, municipal parking
violations within the city. Fine amounts for parking violations shall be $25
for parking meters and $25 for all other parking violations. If not paid within
15 days of issuance, it shall be doubled:
      (1)   Over parked (parking meter);
      (2)   Too far from the curb;
      (3)   Double parked, without the driver in car;
      (4)   Parking in a “no parking zone;”
      (5)   Parking in an alley;
      (6)   Parking in a loading zone;
      (7)   Parking in a bus zone;
      (8)   Parking in police zone;
      (9)   Blocking a sidewalk (parking on or blocking any portion of a
sidewalk or pathway);
      (10)   Parking overtime in a marked space;
      (11)   Wrong side of the street;
      (12)   Street cleaning;
      (13)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (14)   Within an intersection (within 15 feet of curb line);
      (15)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (16)   In a properly designated fire lane; and
      (17)   On a crosswalk.
   (C)   The following is a list of state codes pertaining to stopping,
standing, or parking violations prohibited the municipality in specified
places, and the penalty.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or
the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   In a properly designated fire lane;
         (f)   On a crosswalk;
         (g)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (h)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
 
         (i)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (j)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (k)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly signposted);
         (l)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (m)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (n)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within
a highway tunnel;
         (o)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (p)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if the parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
         (q)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (r)   At any place on any highway where the safety and convenience of
the traveling public is thereby endangered; and
         (s)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is
part of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb
cut is properly marked with blue paint.
      (2)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful.
      (3)   (a)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand, or park
a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned, or marked for accessible parking
with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of access,
either by itself or with explanatory text.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (C)(3)
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined $200;
upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent convictions
thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall
be fined $500.
      (4)   (a)   Upon the paved or main-traveled part of the highway when it
is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such part of said
highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a
standing vehicle, shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-1)
         (b)   Any person violating the provisions of this division (C)(4) is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined
not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-1)
(Prior Code, § 13-6)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 13-7 PROCESSIONS AND PARADES; PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No processions or parade, excepting components of the armed forces of the
United States or of this state, and the forces of the Police and Fire
Departments, and funeral processions, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any
street or highway, except in accordance with a permit issued by the Mayor or
the City Council and other such regulations as set forth in this chapter which
may apply; however, under no circumstances shall any procession be routed so as
to pass the fire station.
(Prior Code, § 13-7)
§ 13-8 DRIVER OFFENSES CAUSED BY OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit
the operation of such vehicle upon a street or public place in any manner
contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 13-8)
§ 13-9 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this municipality, and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 13-9)
§ 13-10 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways,
except where a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
(Prior Code, § 13-10)
§ 13-11 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
(Prior Code, § 13-11)
§ 13-12 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any county,
municipality, town, district, or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this traffic code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway, but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4) (Prior Code, § 13-12)
§ 13-13 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section but subject to the conditions
herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp, as
authorized by §
13-1223, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-5) (Prior Code, § 13-13)
§ 13-14 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties, applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this traffic code, except
those provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-6) (Prior Code, § 13-14)
§ 13-15 FAILURE TO OBEY POLICE OFFICER OR SPECIAL OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order or
direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by law
with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 13-15)
§ 13-16 OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; CHAPTER
INAPPLICABLE TO PERSONS ENGAGED IN HIGHWAY SURFACE WORK.
   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by
the United States, this state, or any county, city, town, district, or any
other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this section
and subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this chapter with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles. Unless specifically made
applicable, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons, teams,
motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the
surface of a highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work.
(Prior Code, § 13-16)
§ 13-17 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties, applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)
§ 13-18 POWERS OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to prevent this
municipality with respect to streets and highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power from:
      (1)   Regulating the standing or parking of vehicles;
      (2)   Regulating traffic by means of police officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulating or prohibiting processions or assemblages on the
highways;
      (4)   Designating particular highways as one-way highways and requiring
that all vehicles;
      (5)   Thereon be moved in one specific direction;
      (6)   Regulating the speed of vehicles in public parks;
      (7)   Designating any highway as a through highway and requiring that all
vehicles stop before entering or crossing the same, or designating any
intersection as a stop intersection and requiring all vehicles to stop at one
or more entrances at such intersection;
      (8)   Restricting the use of highways as authorized in Section 12,
Article 17 of the State Code (W. Va. Code § 17C-17-12);
      (9)   Regulating the operation of bicycles and requiring the registration
and licensing of same, including the requirement of a registration fee;
      (10)   Regulating or prohibiting the turning of vehicles or specified
types of vehicles at intersections;
      (11)   Altering the speed limits as authorized herein; and
      (12)   Adopting such other traffic regulations as are specifically
authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   No local authority shall permit any parking on any state
highway, or erect or maintain any stop sign or traffic-control device at any
location so as to require the traffic on any state highway to stop before
entering or crossing any intersecting highway unless approval, in writing, has
first been obtained from the State Road Commissioner (Commissioner of
Highways).
      (2)   Any such approval may be withdrawn by a notice in writing from the
State Road Commissioner.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), or (A)(10), above shall be effective until signs giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are posted upon or at the entrance to the
highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 13-18)
§ 13-19 STOP, YIELD, AND OTHER TRAFFIC SIGNS TO BE PLACES ON SPECIFIED STREETS.
   The City Council shall have the authority, by resolution, to regulate and
erect stop, yield, direction, speed, or other traffic regulatory signs on any
city street or intersection, and on any state route with the approval of the
State Road Commission when it determines necessary for the safety of the
public. A copy of resolutions shall be provided to the Chief of Police and the
Municipal Court by the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 13-19)
§ 13-20 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable, and in the event that any
provision, or part thereof, shall be held invalid for any reason by any court
exercising competent jurisdiction, then such invalidity shall not be deemed to
affect or impair any of the other provisions or parts of this chapter not
specifically held to be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 13-20)
§ 13-21 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for, the
violation thereof shall be a fine not exceeding $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 13-21)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
ARTICLE 1: ACCIDENTS
Section
   
13-100   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
13-101   Immediate reports of accidents
   
13-102   When driver unable to report
   
13-103   Garages to report bullet damage
   
13-104   Duty upon striking unattended vehicle
   
13-105   Duty to give information and render aid
   
13-106   Crashes involving damage to vehicle
   
13-107   Duty upon striking fixtures upon a highway
 
   
13-108   Penalty
§ 13-100 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to,
or death of, any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the
crash, or as close to the scene as possible, and return to and remain at the
scene of the crash until he or she has complied with the requirements of §
13-101; provided, that the driver may leave the scene of the crash as may
reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance to an injured
person as required by said section three. Every such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person knowingly violating the provisions of division (A) above
after being involved in a crash resulting in physical injury to any person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
confinement in jail for not more than 30 days, or fined not more than $1,000,
or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1) (Prior Code, § 13-100)
§ 13-101 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to, or
death of, any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $1,000
or more, shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, whether
oral or written, give notice of such accident to the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-6) (Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 13-102 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate report of an accident, as required in §
13-100, and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the
accident capable of making a report, such occupant shall make, or cause to be
made, such report not made by the driver.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-8) (Prior Code, § 13-102)
§ 13-103 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-12) (Prior Code, § 13-103)
§ 13-104 DUTY UPON STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop, and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-4) (Prior Code, § 13-104)
§ 13-105 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to, or
death of, any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by
any person shall give his or her name, address, and the registration number of
the vehicle he or she is driving, proof of insurance, insurance policy number,
and the name and address of the owner of the vehicle, if different, and if
available, exhibit his or her driver’s license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall
render to any person injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the
carrying, or the making arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a
physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-3) (Prior Code, § 13-105)
§ 13-106 CRASHES INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash, or as close thereto as possible, but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such crash
until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
13-105. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements under
such circumstances is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalties
prescribed in §
13-108.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-2) (Prior Code, § 13-106)
§ 13-107 DUTY UPON STRIKING FIXTURES UPON A HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact, and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, and shall, upon
request and if available, exhibit his or her driver’s license, and shall make
report of such crash when and as required in §
13-101. Any person failing to make the notification required by this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than
$150.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-5) (Prior Code, § 13-107)
§ 13-108 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and if no specific penalty is provided for, shall be
punished by fine of not more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1) (Prior Code, § 13-108)
ARTICLE 2: TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
Section
   
13-200   Local traffic-control devices
   
13-201   Obedience to traffic-control devices; official signs to be in proper
position, and the like
   
13-202   Obedience to traffic-control instruction at site of street or highway
construction or maintenance
   
13-203   Traffic violations in construction zones; posting requirement;
criminal penalty
   
13-204   Traffic-control signal legend
   
13-205   Pedestrian walk and wait signals
   
13-206   Flashing signals
   
13-207   Display of unauthorized devices, signs, and the like; such devices,
and the like, declared nuisance and subject to removal
   
13-208   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs
or signals
   
13-209   Interference with official traffic-control devices by infrared or
electronic devices
§ 13-200 LOCAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   This municipality, in its respective jurisdiction, shall place and maintain
such traffic-control devices upon highways under its jurisdiction as the city
may deem necessary to indicate and carry out the provisions of this chapter or
local traffic ordinances, or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All such
traffic-control devices hereafter erected shall conform to the state manual and
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 13-200)
§ 13-201 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; OFFICIAL SIGNS TO BE IN PROPER
POSITION, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective
even though no signs are erected or in place.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4) (Prior Code, § 13-201)
§ 13-202 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL INSTRUCTION AT SITE OF STREET OR HIGHWAY
CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways,
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic-control devices, act as
flaggers or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4a) (Prior Code, § 13-202)
§ 13-203 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES; POSTING REQUIREMENT;
CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   (A)   At each and every location where street or highway construction work
is to be conducted, a sign shall be posted at least 1,000 feet from the
construction site, or as close to 1,000 feet from the construction site as is
practicable given the location of the site when workers are present, notifying
all motorists as to the speed limit and displaying the words “construction
work.”
   (B)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in division (A) above by less
than 15 mph is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $200.
   (C)   (1)   Every person convicted of reckless driving is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon a first conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $500, and upon conviction of a second or subsequent
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution
of any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other
provision of this code for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 13-203)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
§ 13-204 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and said terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or go.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
13-1001, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or caution when showing following the green or go signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or stop signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or stop
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or stop.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone, except as provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or stop signal as
close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn, but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at said intersection, except that local
authorities in their respective jurisdictions may, by ordinance, prohibit any
such right turn against a red or stop signal at any intersection within such
jurisdiction, which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at such
intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or stop signal as
close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a one-way
street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves to the
left, may cautiously make a left turn into said one-way street, but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at said
intersection, except that this municipality in its respective jurisdictions
may, by ordinance, prohibit any such left turn against a red or stop signal at
any intersection within such jurisdiction, which ordinance shall be effective
when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   At a place other than an intersection.
      (1)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (F)   Obedience to signals. The motorman of any streetcar shall obey the
above signals as applicable to vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 13-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-3-5
§ 13-205 PEDESTRIAN WALK AND WAIT SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-6) (Prior Code, § 13-205)
§ 13-206 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Local authorities, in areas that experience low traffic times, may
permit flashing signals between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-7) (Prior Code, § 13-206)
§ 13-207 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES, SIGNS, AND THE LIKE; SUCH DEVICES,
AND THE LIKE, DECLARED NUISANCE AND SUBJECT TO REMOVAL.
   (A)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any highway any unauthorized traffic-control device or traffic-
control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be, or is an imitation of or resembles, an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person
shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway
any traffic-control device bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This
shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to
the highway of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that
cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign, or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the State Road Commissioner, this
municipality, or other authority having jurisdiction over the highway is hereby
empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-8) (Prior Code, § 13-207)
§ 13-208 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS
OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon,
or any other part thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-9) (Prior Code, § 13-208)
§ 13-209 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES BY INFRARED OR
ELECTRONIC DEVICES.
   (A)   The possession or use of a mobile infrared transmitter (MIRT), or any
type of infrared or electronic device capable of changing a traffic-control
signal by anyone other than the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle is
prohibited.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500
or confined in the county or regional jail not more than three days, or both;
and upon a second conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
confined in the county or regional jail not more than six days, or both; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $2,500 or confined in a county or regional jail for 30 days,
or both.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, any person
convicted of a violation of division (A) above which results in physical injury
to another shall be guilty of a felony.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any device which
simply makes a vehicle visible or its presence known to a sensor which triggers
the changing of a traffic light after the vehicle operator has complied with
the traffic signal indication.
(Prior Code, § 13-209)
ARTICLE 3: SERIOUS TRAFFIC OFFENSES
Section
   
13-300   Driving under influence of alcohol, controlled substances, drugs;
penalties
   
13-301   Reckless driving, penalties
   
13-302   Hazardous driving
 
   
13-303   Penalty
§ 13-300 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, DRUGS;
PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who does any of the following shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not
less than 30 days nor more than one year, and shall be fined not less than $500
nor more than $1,000:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance, or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008% or
more by weight.
      (2)   While driving, does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform
any duty imposed by law in the driving of the vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes the death of any person within one year next following the
act or failure.
   (B)   Any person who does any of the following shall guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than one
day nor more than 30 days, which jail term is to include actual confinement of
not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drag;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance, or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008%or
more by weight.
      (2)   While driving, does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform
any duty imposed by law in the driving of the vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than himself or herself.
   (C)   Any person who does the following shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for up to 30 days, and
shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $500:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and controlled
substance, or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008% or
more by weight, but less than 0.0015% by weight.
      (2)   A person sentenced pursuant to this division (C) shall receive
credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for
the subject offense.
   (D)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this state while he or she has an
alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0015% or more by weight, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail
for not less than two days nor more than 30 days, which jail term is to include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$200 nor more than $1,000. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (D)
shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
   (E)   (1)   Any person who, being an habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamine, or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle in this state is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail
for not less than one day nor more than 30 days, which jail term is to include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (E) shall
receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
this state by any other person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamine, or any derivative thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than 30 days, and
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (F)   Any person who does the following shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than 30
days and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500: Knowingly
permits his or her vehicle to be driven in this state by any other person who:
      (1)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
      (2)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
      (3)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
      (4)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance, or any other drug; or
      (5)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008% or more
by weight.
   (G)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle in this
state while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of
0.0002% or more, by weight, but less than 0.0008%, by weight, for a first
offense under this division (G) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. For a second or
subsequent offense under this division (G), the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for 24
hours, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person who
is charged with a first offense under the provisions of this division (G) may
move for a continuance of the proceedings, from time to time, to allow the
person to participate in the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program as
provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Upon successful completion of the Program,
the court shall dismiss the charge against the person and expunge the person’s
record as it relates to the alleged offense. In the event the person fails to
successfully complete the program, the court shall proceed to an adjudication
of the alleged offense. A motion for a continuance under this division (G) may
not be construed as an admission or be used as evidence. A person arrested and
charged with an offense under the provisions of this section or division (A),
(B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) above, or this division (G), may not also be charged
with an offense under this division (G) arising out of the same transaction or
occurrence.
   (H)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this state while he or she is under
any of the following shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than two days nor more than 30
days, which jail term is to include actual confinement of not less than 48
hours, and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000:
      (1)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
      (2)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
      (3)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
      (4)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance, or any other drug; or
      (5)   (a)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008%
or more by weight; and
         (b)   The person while driving has on or within the motor vehicle one
or more other persons who are un-emancipated minors who have not reached their
sixteenth birthday.
      (6)   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment of information
for a second or subsequent offense under, this section if the person has been
previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this section which is
alleged to have occurred within the applicable time period for prior offenses,
notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final adjudication of the
charges for the alleged previous offense. In that case, the warrant or
indictment of information must set forth the date, location, and particulars of
the previous offense or offenses.
         (a)   No person may be convicted of a second or subsequent offense
under this section unless the conviction for the previous offense has become
final.
         (b)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of divisions
(A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) above, or any person permitted to drive as described
under divisions (F) or (G) above, is or has been legally entitled to use
alcohol, a controlled substance or a drug does not constitute a defense against
any charge of violating divisions (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), or (G) above.
         (c)   For purposes of this section, the term CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has
the meaning ascribed to it in W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
         (d)   1.   The sentences provided in this section upon conviction for
a violation of this article are mandatory and are not subject to suspension or
probation; provided, that the court may apply the provisions W. Va. Code § 62-
11A-1 to a person sentenced or committed to a term of one year or less for a
first offense under this section. Provided, however, that the court may impose
a term of conditional probation pursuant to § 17C-5-2b of this code to persons
adjudicated thereunder. An order for home detention by the court pursuant to
the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 62-11B-1 et seq. may be used as an alternative
sentence to any period of incarceration required by this section for a first or
subsequent offense; provided, however, that for any period of home
incarceration ordered for a person convicted of a second offense under this
section, electronic monitoring shall be required for no fewer than five days of
the total period of home confinement ordered, and the offender may not leave
home for those five days notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-
11B-5; provided further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered for
a person convicted of a third or subsequent violation of this section,
electronic monitoring shall be included for no fewer than ten days of the total
period of home confinement ordered, and the offender may not leave home for
those ten days notwithstanding W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5.
            2.   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment of
information for a second or subsequent offense under this section, if the
person has been previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this
section which is alleged to have occurred within the applicable time periods
for prior offenses, notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final
adjudication of the charges for the alleged previous offense. In such case, the
warrant or indictment of information must set forth the date, location, and
particulars of the previous offense or offenses.
      3.   No person may be convicted of a second or subsequent offense under
this section unless the conviction for the previous offense has become final.
         (e)   For purposes of this section, the phrase IN THIS MUNICIPALITY
means anywhere within the physical boundaries of this municipality, including,
but not limited to, publicly maintained streets and highways, and subdivision
streets or other areas not publicly maintained but nonetheless open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
         (f)   When used in this section, the terms or phrases driving UNDER
THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR, DRIVING OR OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE
WHILE INTOXICATED, FOR ANY PERSON WHO IS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING
LIQUOR TO DRIVE ANY VEHICLE, or any similar term or phrase shall be construed
to mean and be synonymous with the term or phrase “While under the influence of
alcohol ...drives a vehicle” as the latter term or phrase is used in this
section.
         (g)   A warrant or indictment which charges or alleges an offense,
prohibited by the provisions of this section, and which warrant or indictment
uses any of the terms or phrases set forth in subsection (S) hereof, shall not
thereby be fatally defective if such warrant or indictment otherwise informs
the person so accused of the charges against him or her.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2) (Prior Code, § 13-300)
§ 13-301 RECKLESS DRIVING, PENALTIES.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private, or upon the
property of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal
park and public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events, or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-3)
   (C)   Every person convicted of reckless driving may be punished upon a
first conviction by imprisonment for a period of not less than five days nor
more than 30 days, or by a fine of not more than $500, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, and on a second or subsequent conviction may be punished by
imprisonment for not less than ten days nor more than 30 days, or by a fine of
not more than $1,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 13-301)
§ 13-302 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13-302)
§ 13-303 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
13-301 shall, for a first offense, be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$500, and upon conviction of a second or subsequent conviction thereof, shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, any person
convicted of a violation of §
13-301 who in doing so proximately causes another to suffer serious bodily
injury shall be confined in jail not less than ten days nor more than 30 days,
or fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or both.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, SERIOUS BODILY INJURY means bodily
injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which causes serious or
prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health, or prolonged loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
(Prior Code, § 13-303)
Editor’s note:
   This section was revised by the city on November 16, 2015.
ARTICLE 4: SPEED RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
13-400   Maximum speed limits
   
13-401   Slow speed
   
13-402   Special speed limitations
   
13-403   Racing on streets and highways prohibited; legislative findings;
penalties; mandatory revocation of licenses
   
13-404   Slow-vehicle moving emblem
   
13-405   Penalty
   
13-406   Street racing
§ 13-400 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event, speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   (1)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
division (B) or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful.
         (a)   Fifteen mph in a school zone during school recess, or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours. A
SCHOOL ZONE is all school property, including school grounds and any street or
highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street
or highway from the school grounds and, in the case of school property not
abutting a street or highway, but accessed through a right-of-way granted for
entrance to school property, a school zone is all school property, including
school grounds and any property within the access right-of-way, and extending
125 feet along the street or highway from the entrance to the access right-of-
way. Such speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on a
controlled-access highway which is separated from the school or school grounds
by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of Highways;
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any business or residence district; or
         (c)   Fifty-five mph on open country highways, except as otherwise
provided by this article.
      (2)   The speeds set forth in this section may be altered as authorized
in W. Va. Code § 17C-6.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (D)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph, and the speed limits specified in division (B) above do not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1) (Prior Code, § 13-400)
§ 13-401 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a)) (Prior Code, § 13-401)
§ 13-402 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this traffic code, no
person shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped
with pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
         (a)   Twenty mph in any business district;
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district; or
         (c)   Forty mph on open country highway.
      (2)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
   (C)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge, or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway, at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure when such structure is so signposted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-5)
(Prior Code, § 13-402)
§ 13-403 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED; LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS;
PENALTIES; MANDATORY REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   The legislature hereby determines and finds that the racing of motor
vehicles on the public streets and highways of this state, whether within or in
excess of the lawful speed limit (much of which racing is commonly referred to
as “illegal street racing”), is extremely dangerous to life, limb, and
property, and that such racing is an ever-increasing problem. It is, therefore,
hereby declared to be the public policy of this state to prohibit all forms of
such racing on the public streets and highways, and to provide criminal
penalties for, and require the revocation of, the operator’s or chauffeur’s
license or non-resident privilege to drive of those persons who are convicted
of engaging in or aiding or abetting such racing.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, or aid or abet by serving
as lookout or timer, or in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as
defined herein, on any public street or highway in this state. For the purposes
of this division (A), SPEED RACE means:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; and/or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle, or motor vehicles where speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (A) above is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished for a first
offense by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100; and for a second
offense, by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500; and for a third and
each subsequent offense, by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
For the purposes of this section, a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited
to secure such person’s appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been
vacated, shall be equivalent to a final conviction. If, at the time of any
violation of the provisions of division (A) above by any person as an operator
of a motor vehicle, such person was not entitled to operate a motor vehicle in
this state because his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or privilege
to drive in this state if such person be a non-resident, had earlier been
suspended or revoked, then in addition to the offense, penalties, and mandatory
revocation provided for in this section, the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-4-
3 shall be applicable.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a person is convicted for a violation of the provisions
of division (A) above, which conviction has become final, the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles shall, in addition to the penalties hereinbefore
provided, forthwith:
         (a)   For a first offense, revoke the operator’s or chauffeur’s
license of such person, or such person’s privilege to drive in this state if he
or she be a non-resident, for a period of six months;
         (b)   For a second offense occurring within a two-year period, revoke
the operator’s or chauffeur’s license of such person, or such person’s
privilege to drive in this state if he or she be a non-resident, for a period
of two years; or
         (c)   For a third or any subsequent offense occurring within a five-
year period, revoke the operator’s or chauffeur’s license of such person, or
such person’s privilege to drive in this state if he or she be a non-resident,
for a period of five years.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a person is convicted as aforesaid for a second,
third, or subsequent offense which occurred while such person’s operator’s or
chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if he or she be a non-
resident, was revoked pursuant to the provisions of this division (C), the
period or periods of mandatory revocation for such second, third, or subsequent
offense shall be cumulative and shall run consecutively.
         (b)   If a person’s junior or probationary operator’s license is
revoked in accordance with the provisions of this division (C) such person may
not apply for a regular operator’s or chauffeur’s license until he or she
reaches 18 years of age or until the period of revocation has elapsed,
whichever event shall last occur.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-3-8, any
person whose operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this
state if he or she be a non-resident, is revoked, under the provisions of this
division (C), may, following the period or periods of revocation, immediately
apply for and obtain a new operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or non-resident
privilege to drive, as the case may be, if and only if the Commissioner of the
Division of Motor Vehicles is satisfied, after investigation of the character,
habits, and driving ability of such person, that it will be safe to permit such
person to drive a motor vehicle on the public streets and highways. Any period
of revocation imposed under the provisions of this division (C) shall be
computed from the date of such revocation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8) (Prior Code, § 13-403)
§ 13-404 SLOW-VEHICLE MOVING EMBLEM.
   All farm machinery and other machinery, including all road construction
machinery except when guarded by flaggers or flares, designed to operate at 25
mph or less, traveling on a public highway during day or night shall display a
triangular slow-moving emblem on the rear of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-9) (Prior Code, § 13-404)
§ 13-405 PENALTY.
   (A)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (B)   Speeding.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (B), any person who
violates the provisions of §
13-400 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$500.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
13-400(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
that if such conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
13-400(B)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more in
the presence of one or more children, then the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1) (Prior Code, § 13-405)
§ 13-406 STREET RACING.
   Whoever violates §
13-403 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100; for a second
offense, fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense, fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. For the purposes of this
section, a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure such person’s
appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent
to a final conviction. If, at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
13-403 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in this state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if such person be a
non-resident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
13-1409 shall be applicable.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8) (Prior Code, § 13-406)
ARTICLE 5: DRIVING ON RIGHT-SIDE OF ROADWAY
Section
   
13-500   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
13-501   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
13-502   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
13-503   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
15-504   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
15-505   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
13-506   Hazardous or not passing zones
   
13-507   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
13-508   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
13-509   Following too closely
   
13-510   Driving upon divided roadways
   
13-511   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
 
   
13-512   Penalty
§ 13-500 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right-half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right-half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-1) (Prior Code, § 13-500)
§ 13-501 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-2) (Prior Code, § 13-501)
§ 13-502 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed, and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (C)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-3) (Prior Code, § 13-502)
§ 13-503 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and/or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-4) (Prior Code, § 13-503)
§ 15-504 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (B)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-5) (Prior Code, § 13-504)
§ 13-505 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and/or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-6) (Prior Code, § 13-505)
§ 13-506 HAZARDOUS OR NOT PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-7) (Prior Code, § 13-506)
§ 13-507 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c)) (Prior Code, § 13-507)
§ 13-508 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane,
except in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 13-508)
§ 13-509 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles, and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided, that
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone;”
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of this state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-10) (Prior Code, § 13-509)
§ 13-510 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier, or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through
an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space, or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-11) (Prior Code, § 13-510)
§ 13-511 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-12) (Prior Code, § 13-511)
§ 13-512 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 13-512)
ARTICLE 6: TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
Section
   
13-600   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
13-601   Right turns
   
13-602   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
13-603   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
13-604   Specified turns at intersections
   
13-605   “U” turns restricted
   
13-606   Starting vehicle
   
13-607   Signals before changing course; turning or stopping
   
13-608   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
13-609   Hand and arm signals
 
   
13-610   Penalty
§ 13-600 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this article.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-1) (Prior Code, § 13-600)
§ 13-601 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-2) (Prior Code, § 13-601)
§ 13-602 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right-half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made
so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-3) (Prior Code, § 13-602)
§ 13-603 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-4) (Prior Code, § 13-603)
§ 13-604 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers,
buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and thereby
require and direct that a different course from that specified in this article
be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons,
or signs are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or
signs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5) (Prior Code, § 13-604)
§ 13-605 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway, or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs
are erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
(Prior Code, § 13-605)
§ 13-606 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-7) (Prior Code, § 13-606)
§ 13-607 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE; TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
13-601 to
13-604, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so
turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-8) (Prior Code, § 13-607)
§ 13-608 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical signal device,
but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals
must be given by such a lamp or lamps, or signal device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-9) (Prior Code, § 13-608)
§ 13-609 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-10) (Prior Code, § 13-609)
§ 13-610 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 13-610)
ARTICLE 7: RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
13-700   Right-of-way at intersections
   
13-701   Right-of-way when turning left
   
13-702   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
13-703   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
13-704   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
13-705   Turning into private driveway, alley, or building
 
   
13-706   Penalty
§ 13-700 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through streets or highways, and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this article.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-1) (Prior Code, § 13-700)
§ 13-701 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this traffic code, may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-2) (Prior Code, § 13-701)
§ 13-702 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
13-1004 at the entrance to a through street or highway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways, or which are approaching so closely on such
through street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver
having so yielded may proceed.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway,
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-3) (Prior Code, § 13-702)
§ 13-703 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-4) (Prior Code, § 13-703)
§ 13-704 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
13-1223, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when
operated as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving
audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the
roadway clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position
until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-5) (Prior Code, § 13-704)
§ 13-705 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or driveway,
alley, or building from a public street or highway shall be governed by the
following rules:
   (A)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)    Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right-half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
   (C)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction, approach
for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the
left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley, or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway, or building.
(Prior Code, § 13-705)
§ 13-706 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$200; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $300; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-6) (Prior Code, § 13-706)
ARTICLE 8: PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES
Section
   
13-800   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
13-801   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
13-802   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
13-803   Drivers to exercise due care
   
13-804   Moving upon right-half of crosswalks
   
13-805   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
13-806   Persons working on streets and highways
   
13-807   Protecting of blind pedestrians
   
13-808   Electric personal assistive mobility device
 
   
13-809   Penalty
§ 13-800 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
provided in §
13-204, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a)) (Prior Code, § 13-800)
§ 13-801 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
13-802.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-2) (Prior Code, § 13-801)
§ 13-802 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-3) (Prior Code, § 13-802)
§ 13-803 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-4) (Prior Code, § 13-803)
§ 13-804 MOVING UPON RIGHT-HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right-half of
crosswalks.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-5) (Prior Code, § 13-804)
§ 13-805 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent Broadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-6) (Prior Code, § 13-805)
§ 13-806 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic-control device or flagger.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-8) (Prior Code, § 13-806)
§ 13-807 PROTECTING OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W. Va. Code § 5-15-5) (Prior Code, § 13-807)
§ 13-808 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
13-1 and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an electric personal assistive
mobility device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-1)
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
front, rear, and side reflectors; a braking system that enables the operator to
bring the device to a controlled stop; and if operated at any time from one-
half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a
white light that sufficiently illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   (1)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian, and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians.
      (2)   An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2) (Prior Code, § 13-808)
§ 13-809 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this article, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-7)
   (B)   An operator who violates a provision of §
13-808 shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a second or
subsequent offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$10 and not greater than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
(Prior Code, § 13-809)
ARTICLE 9: OPERATION OF BICYCLES, PLAY VEHICLES, AND SAFETY
Section
   
13-900   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
13-901   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
13-902   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
13-903   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
13-904   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
13-905   Carrying articles
   
13-906   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes
   
13-907   Reckless operation; control, course, and speed
   
13-908   Impounding
   
13-909   Riding on sidewalk prohibited
   
13-910   Bicycle helmets for children
 
   
13-911   Penalty
§ 13-900 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this article.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway, or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-1) (Prior Code, § 13-900)
§ 13-901 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this article
and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which, by their nature,
can have no application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-2) (Prior Code, § 13-901)
§ 13-902 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-3) (Prior Code, § 13-902)
§ 13-903 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same, or himself or herself, to any vehicle
upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-4) (Prior Code, § 13-903)
§ 13-904 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride in the lane marked for bicycle use or, if no lane is marked for
bicycle use, as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   (a)   When reasonably necessary to avoid any condition or potential
conflict including, but not limited to, a fixed or moving object, parked or
moving vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, turn lane, or
substandard-width lane, which makes it unsafe to continue along the right-hand
curb or edge or within a bicycle lane.
         (b)   For the purposes of this subsection, a “substandard-width lane”
is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way roadway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such
roadway as practicable.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-5) (Prior Code, § 13-904)
§ 13-905 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-6) (Prior Code, § 13-905)
§ 13-906 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which emits a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all distances from
50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that enables the operator
to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, and clean pavement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-7) (Prior Code, § 13-906)
§ 13-907 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE, AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians, and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks, or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course, unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
13-905; or
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Prior Code, § 13-907)
§ 13-908 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   In case of violation of any provision of this article, the court may,
in lieu of or in addition to the penalties provided, impound a bicycle involved
in such violation of any person for a period of not more than 30 days.
   (B)   Jurisdiction to enforce this article is specifically vested in the
Juvenile Court of the county in all cases where the age of the persons is
within the jurisdiction of the court; in all other cases, jurisdiction is in
the Municipal Court of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-908)
§ 13-909 RIDING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride any bicycle upon any sidewalk within the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-909)
§ 13-910 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way, other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path, that is under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality, and is designed for use and used by vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear, or the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
for use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-3)
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle, or any attachment to a bicycle, used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged, he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle, or on any attachment to a bicycle, used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless, at all times when the person
is so engaged, he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit,
fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-4)
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (A) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-5)
   (D)   Civil actions. A violation of division (B) above is not admissible as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence, or comparative negligence,
in any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-6)
(Prior Code, § 13-910)
§ 13-911 PENALTY.
   (A)   No jail sentence shall be imposed with violations contained in this
article.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17C-18-1, any
parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
13-910(B) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program, which includes injury
prevention education, or both fined and required to perform such community
service. Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court costs
may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
13-910 (B).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
13-910(B), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet, or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation purchased or otherwise obtained a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
13-910(B) that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-2-1
(c). Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s Highway Safety Program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-7) (Prior Code, § 13-911)
ARTICLE 10: SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
Section
   
13-1000   Driving across grade crossing
   
13-1001   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
13-1002   Stopping at grade crossing
   
13-1003   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
13-1004   Through streets and stop intersections
   
13-1005   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
13-1006   Overtaking and passing school bus; penalties; signs and warning
lights upon buses; requirements for sale of buses; mounting of cameras;
educational information campaign; limitation on idling
   
13-1007   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
13-1008   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
   
13-1009   Penalty
§ 13-1000 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives, or
continues to give, a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance, and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-1) (Prior Code, § 13-1000)
§ 13-1001 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   The Council or other designated traffic authority, with the approval of the
State Commissioner of Highways, is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
When such stop signs are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within
50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail of such railroad and
shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-2) (Prior Code, § 13-1001)
§ 13-1002 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the driver of a
commercial motor vehicle specified in division (B) below shall not cross a
railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
         (a)   Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
         (b)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
         (c)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
      (2)   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial motor
vehicle across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor vehicle
to complete the crossing without change of gears. The driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded, and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 392.10(a)(3) (2001);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. §§ 107 through 180 (2001);
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120 (2001); and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part 107,
subpart B (2001).
   (C)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with division (A) above.
   (D)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade, as provided in division (A) above, may not
cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows the
commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad
crossing, and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are
clear of an approaching train.
   (E)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping, and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (F)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flagger, or a
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing, or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5 (2000);
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law, permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
   (G)   Any person driving a vehicle specified in this section, or a vehicle
that requires a commercial driver’s license, who fails to comply with the
requirements of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. Provided, that if the
electric or mechanical signal device is malfunctioning, this section shall not
apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3) (Prior Code, § 13-1002)
§ 13-1003 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of ten or less mph, or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than one-half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent
axles, or in any event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level
surface of a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing
without first complying with this section.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet, nor
more than 50 feet, from the nearest rail of such railroad, and while so stopped
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not
proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (D)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates, or a flagger or otherwise, of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car. If a flagger is provided by the railroad, movement
over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-4) (Prior Code, § 13-1003)
§ 13-1004 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council, or other designated traffic authority, may designate
through streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances
thereto, or may designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect
like signs at one or more entrances to such intersection.
   (B)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height, and such sign shall, at nighttime, be rendered luminous
by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected
on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the on the near
side of the roadway face of the sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk.
   (D)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic-control signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-5) (Prior Code, § 13-1004)
§ 13-1005 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-6) (Prior Code, § 13-1005)
§ 13-1006 OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS; PENALTIES; SIGNS AND WARNING
LIGHTS UPON BUSES; REQUIREMENTS FOR SALE OF BUSES; MOUNTING OF CAMERAS;
EDUCATIONAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGN; LIMITATION ON IDLING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children, shall stop the vehicle before reaching the
school bus when there is, in operation on the school bus, flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-12-8, and the driver may not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school bus
driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This section
applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children including,
but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road, or
driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to the highway, and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
   (B)   Any driver acting in violation of division (A) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction for a first offense, shall be fined not less
than $500 nor more than $1,000. Upon conviction of a second violation of
division (A) above, the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more
than $1,500. Upon conviction of a third or subsequent violation of division (A)
above, the driver shall be fined $2,000 and confined not less than 48 hours in
jail, but not more than six months.
   (C)   Where the actual identity of the operator of a motor vehicle operated
in violation of division (A) above is unknown, but the license plate number of
the motor vehicle is known, it may be inferred that the operator was an owner
or lessee of the motor vehicle for purposes of the probable cause
determination. Where there is more than one registered owner or lessee, the
inference created by this division (C) shall apply to the first listed owner or
lessee as found on the motor vehicle registration; provided, that a person
charged with a violation of division (A) above, under the provisions of this
division (C), where the sole evidence against the owner or lessee is the
presence of the vehicle at the scene at the time of the offense, shall only be
subject to the applicable fine set forth in division (B) above upon conviction;
provided, however, that the offenses set forth in divisions (F) and (G) below
are separate and distinct from that set forth in division (A) above.
   (D)   Service of process of a complaint issued pursuant to division (C)
above shall be effected consistent with West Virginia Rule of Criminal
Procedure 4.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (B) above, the
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles shall, upon conviction, suspend the driver’s
license of the person so convicted:
      (1)   Of a first offense under division (B) above, for a period of 60
days;
      (2)   Of a second offense under division (B) above, for a period of 180
days; or
      (3)   Of a third or subsequent offense under division (B) above, for a
period of one year.
   (F)   Any driver of a vehicle who willfully violates the provisions of
division (A) above, and the violation causes serious bodily injury to any
person other than the driver, is guilty of a felony and, upon conviction, shall
be confined in a state correctional facility not less than one year nor more
than three years, and fined not less than $2,000 nor more than $5,000.
   (G)   Any driver of a vehicle who willfully violates the provisions of
division (A) above, and the violation causes death, is guilty of a felony and,
upon conviction, shall be confined in a state correctional facility not less
than one year nor more than ten years, and fined not less than $5,000 nor more
than $10,000.
   (H)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear of the bus a plainly visible sign containing the words
“School Bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a highway for purposes other than the actual
transportation of children either to or from school, all markings on the
contract school bus indicating “School Bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any
school bus sold or transferred to another owner by a County Board of Education
agency or individual shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and
all lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred
for the transportation of school children; provided, that every County Board of
Education shall install forward-facing and rear-facing cameras on all school
buses purchased on or after July 1, 2019, for the purpose of enforcing this
section and for any other lawful purpose.
   (I)   To the extent that state, federal, or other funds are available, the
State Police shall conduct an information campaign to educate drivers
concerning the provisions of this section and the importance of school bus
safety.
   (J)   The State Board of Education shall promulgate a rule in accordance
with the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 29A-3B-1 et seq. governing the idling of
school buses.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7) (Prior Code, § 13-1006)
§ 13-1007 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights, as are contemplated and referred to in W. Va. Code §
17C-12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver, or some other adult, must use
by exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code § 17C-15-26(e).
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers, shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van
when there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights,
or when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated, or
the passenger van resumes motion. This section applies whenever the passenger
van is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot,
private road, or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a
controlled access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van
which is on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway, and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-17a) (Prior Code, § 13-1007)
§ 13-1008 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 13-1008)
§ 13-1009 PENALTY.
   (A)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever violates §
13-1005 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Stopping for school bus or passenger van. Any driver acting in
violation of §§
13-1006(A) or
13-1007(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §§
13-1006(A) or
13-1007(B) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this traffic code to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 13-1009)
ARTICLE 11: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
13-1100   Unattended motor vehicle
   
13-1101   Backing a vehicle
   
13-1102   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
13-1103   Passengers in seat with operator
   
13-1104   Passengers on running board
   
13-1105   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
13-1106   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
13-1107   Crossing fire hose; penalty
   
13-1108   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
13-1109   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
13-1110   Unlawful riding
   
13-1111   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
13-1112   Taking, injuring, or tampering with vehicle
   
13-1113   Driving upon sidewalk, street, lawn, or curb
   
13-1114   Traffic restricted on city streets, shortcutting, avoiding traffic-
control devices
   
13-1115   Coasting prohibited
   
13-1116   Driving through safety zone
   
13-1117   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
13-1118   Obstruction of traffic
   
13-1119   Vehicle security
   
13-1120   Vehicle regulations on park property
   
13-1121   Motorized scooters
   
13-1122   Putting glass and the like on highway
   
13-1123   Police officers authorized to conduct investigations on private
property
   
13-1124   Unlawful to litter from motor vehicle; penalty; rule making
   
13-1125   Prohibited use of an electronic communications device; driving
without handheld features; definitions; exceptions; penalties
 
   
13-1126   Penalty
§ 13-1100 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to set
unattended on public, commercial, or private property without first stopping
the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key, and effectively setting the
brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the side, such as to the curb or side of a street or highway. Any person
violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction
within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third
or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-1) (Prior Code, § 13-1100)
§ 13-1101 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-2) (Prior Code, § 13-1101)
§ 13-1102 DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-4) (Prior Code, § 13-1102)
§ 13-1103 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons, including the operator, shall ride, or be
permitted by such operator to ride, in the seat with the operator of any motor
vehicle while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways
of this municipality; provided, however, that the limitation of this section
shall not apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for
the occupancy of four persons, including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-5) (Prior Code, § 13-1103)
§ 13-1104 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride, nor shall the operator permit any passenger to
ride, on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being
operated on the streets or highways of this municipality.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-6) (Prior Code, § 13-1104)
§ 13-1105 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, may not
follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm
or other emergency closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm or other emergency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9) (Prior Code, § 13-1105)
§ 13-1106 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights, or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (A)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle, and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (B)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any non-divided highway or street and 25
mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if changing lanes
would be impossible or unsafe.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a) (Prior Code, § 13-1106)
§ 13-1107 CROSSING FIRE HOSE; PENALTY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-10)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100;
upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more
than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more
than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-10)
(Prior Code, § 13-1107)
§ 13-1108 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 13-1108)
§ 13-1109 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 13-1109)
§ 13-1110 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 13-1110)
§ 13-1111 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle, and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking, or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
(Prior Code, § 13-1111)
§ 13-1112 TAKING, INJURING, OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without consent
of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner of his
or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the vehicle. The
consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall not, in any
case, be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a previous
occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a different
person. Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in, any such unauthorized taking or driving shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-4)
   (B)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent, of the owner.
   (C)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury, or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes, or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-6)
(Prior Code, § 13-1112)
§ 13-1113 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET, LAWN, OR CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 13-1113)
§ 13-1114 TRAFFIC RESTRICTED ON CITY STREETS, SHORTCUTTING, AVOIDING TRAFFIC-
CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to restrict traffic in the city to
the maximum extent possible to the state highway system and to prohibit traffic
on city streets except where no alternative state highway route is available.
      (1)   All through traffic, traveling through the city, is restricted to
United States and state routes.
      (2)   All trucks, truck tractor, truck and trailer combinations, or truck
tractor and semi-trailer combinations, or commercial vehicles or vehicles used
for any trade or business, or a non-resident of a residential area shall be
restricted to the state highway system.
      (3)   No driver shall leave the state highway system and enter a city
street or other property to use that street as a short cut or to avoid traffic-
control devices.
      (4)   No driver shall leave the roadway and enter upon a public or
private lot, street, or any other property to avoid a traffic-control device.
      (5)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than $50 nor more than $200.
   (B)   Provided, however, the provisions set forth in division (A) above
shall not apply to residents of the city in their normal necessary operation
along the specified road.
   (C)   Provided, however, the provisions set forth in division (A) above
shall not apply to emergency vehicles, school buses operating on regular
routes, vehicles, and combinations of government agencies and utilities, or
their contractors engaged in construction, maintenance, or utility operations
on or along the specified road.
   (D)   (1)   Provided, however, the provisions set forth in division (A)
above shall not prevent vehicles from traveling upon any street in the city for
purposes of loading and unloading cargo or for purposes of making deliveries,
or pickup on such street or to or from property accessible only from such
street.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a
designated truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to
that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
(Prior Code, § 13-1114)
§ 13-1115 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The operator of any motor vehicle, when traveling on a down grade on
any street, alley, or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a commercial motor vehicle, when traveling upon a down
grade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-8) (Prior Code, § 13-1115)
§ 13-1116 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 13-1116)
§ 13-1117 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or any
part thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 13-1117)
§ 13-1118 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle on any
street or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free
flow of motor vehicle traffic, except in compliance with a lawful order of a
police officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal, or
marking.
(Prior Code, § 13-1118)
§ 13-1119 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   (A)   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security
upon such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code Art. 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such article, unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 17D-2A,
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
   (B)   Proof of insurance shall be carried by the insured in the appropriate
vehicle for use as proof of security, and when a vehicle is stopped by a law
enforcement officer for reasonable cause, the officer of the agency making the
investigation shall inquire of the operator of any motor vehicle involved as to
the existence upon the vehicle or vehicles of the evidence of insurance or
other security required, and proof must be presented at the time of
investigation. An insured shall not be guilty of a violation of this section if
he or she furnishes proof that such insurance was in effect within seven days
of being cited for not carrying such certificate or other proof in such
vehicle.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer or agent may not stop vehicles solely to
inquire as to the certificate of insurance.
   (D)   In addition to any administrative penalty provided for violation of
any provision of this section, any person who violates any provision of this
section for which another penalty is not provided in this article is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $200
nor more than $5,000; and upon a second or subsequent conviction, shall be
fined not less than $200 nor more than $5,000, or confined in the county or
regional jail not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17D-2A-9) (Prior Code, § 13-1119)
§ 13-1120 VEHICLE REGULATIONS ON PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section, BOARD means the City of Pennsboro, or any of
the city boards, authorities, or commissions, the City Park (Tracy Lake), and
Recreation Board(s), and VEHICLE means any automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, or
any other form of mechanical transportation.
   (B)   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or propelled,
along or over any roadway or other property under the supervision of the Board
at a greater rate of speed than as posted by the Board or the city.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on any roadway or on any other
property within park areas under the supervision of the Board, except as
designated parking areas. No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on unpaved
areas within the park areas or on areas of the roadway designated for travel of
vehicles, or on paved areas not designated for parking, except on occasion when
such area is specifically designated as a parking or driving area, whichever
applies, by the Board or the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-1120)
§ 13-1121 MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTORIZED SCOOTERS. A scooter that is powered by a gasoline or electric
motor.
   (B)   Prohibited acts; exemptions.
      (1)   The riding, operation, or other use of motorized scooters for
transportation or recreational purposes, within or upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, parking lots, and other property owned, leased, or controlled by the
city and any of its boards, authorities, or commissions is prohibited, unless
the person using such motorized scooter has a valid driver’s license under the
provisions of the State Code.
      (2)   It shall not be an offense for a motorized scooter to be operated
upon a designated parade route when such person is a duly registered and
recognized participant in any properly permitted parade, provided that such
operation occurs in conjunction with said parade.
      (3)   The federal government, the state, and the city are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
      (4)   The provisions of this section does not apply to an electric
personal assistive mobility device, as defined in §
13-808 and as operated by a mobility impaired person.
      (5)   Any licensed driver permitted to operate a motorized scooter shall
comply with the required safety equipment set forth in §
13-1228.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any violation shall constitute the commission of a misdemeanor
criminal offense, and any officer of the Police Department of the city, or any
officer of any other police agency exercising proper jurisdiction within the
corporate limits of the city, is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a
citation and to charge any such person who commits a violation. Any person
convicted of a first offense shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$100. Any person convicted of a second or further offense shall be fined not
less than $50 nor more than $250.
      (2)   The parent or other guardian of any person violating the provisions
of this article when such person shall not have attained the age of 18 years
shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such minor to violate any provision
of this section. Any such authorization, or if such parent or other guardian
shall knowingly permit, any such minor to violate the provisions of this
section shall constitute a criminal violation and shall subject such parent or
guardian to the criminal penalties set forth in this article. The citing and
conviction of any parent or guardian shall not prohibit the citing and
conviction of the operator of such motorized scooter.
(Prior Code, § 13-1121)
§ 13-1122 PUTTING GLASS AND THE LIKE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal, or vehicle upon such highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same, or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from
such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-11) (Prior Code, § 13-1122)
§ 13-1123 POLICE OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, nothing may prohibit
any duly authorized municipal police officers, County Deputy Sheriffs, or
members of the Department of Public Safety from entering upon private lands in
order to investigate a motor vehicle accident when said private lands are open
to the use of the public at large for any purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-13a) (Prior Code, § 13-1123)
§ 13-1124 UNLAWFUL TO LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE; PENALTY; RULE MAKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw, or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped, or thrown any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street, or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state, or within 100 feet
of the waters of this state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LITTER means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof, or any other offensive or unsightly matter,
but not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging,
sawmilling, farming, or manufacturing.
   (C)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it cannot be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-14) (Prior Code, § 13-1124)
§ 13-1125 PROHIBITED USE OF AN ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE; DRIVING
WITHOUT HANDHELD FEATURES; DEFINITIONS; EXCEPTIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a person may not drive or
operate a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while:
      (1)   Texting; or
      (2)   Using a cell phone or other electronic communications device,
unless the use is accomplished by hands-free equipment.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMARTWATCH. A wearable computer that provides a local touchscreen for
daily use, associated with applications, and connected to a cellular or Wi-Fi
network.
      STAND-ALONE ELECTRONIC DEVICE. A portable device other than a wireless
telecommunications device which stores audio or video data files to be
retrieved on demand by a user.
      UTILITY SERVICES. Includes electric, natural gas, water, wastewater,
cable, telephone, or telecommunications services, or the repair, location,
relocation, improvement, or maintenance of utility poles, transmission
structures, pipes, wires, fibers, cables, easements, rights-of-way, or
associated infrastructure.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
         (a)   One of the following portable devices:
            1.   A cellular telephone;
      2.   A portable telephone;
      3.   A text-messaging device;
      4.   A personal digital assistant;
      5.   A stand-alone computer, including, but not limited to, a tablet,
laptop, or notebook computer;
      6.   A handheld global positioning system receiver;
      7.   A device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast television
image, or visual image; or
      8.   Any substantially similar portable wireless device that is used to
initiate or receive communication, information, or data.
         (b)   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a
smartwatch, any type of radio, including, but not limited to, radios used by
first responders or school bus operators; citizens band radio or radio hybrid;
commercial two-way radio communication device or its functional equivalent;
subscription-based emergency communication device; prescribed medical device;
amateur or ham radio device, or any built-in vehicle equipment for security,
navigation, communications, or remote diagnostics.
      VOICE-OPERATED or HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use a wireless telecommunications device without the
use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the feature or
function with a single touch or single swipe.
   (C)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device or two-way radio while loading or unloading
passengers.
   (D)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device while the bus is in motion nor while stationary in
traffic nor at a traffic control signal, unless that device is being used in a
similar manner as a two-way radio to allow live communication between the
driver and school officials or public safety officials.
   (E)   A driver shall exercise due care in operating a motor vehicle on the
highways of this state and shall not engage in any actions involving any stand-
alone electronic device or wireless telecommunications device that distracts
such driver from the safe operation of the vehicle.
   (F)   While operating a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property
open to the public for vehicular traffic in this state, no driver may:
      (1)   Physically hold or support, with any part of his or her body, a
wireless communication device or stand-alone electronic device; provided, that
such prohibition shall not apply to the wearing of a smartwatch;
      (2)   Write, send, or read any text-based communication including, but
not limited to, a text message, instant message, e-mail, or social media
interaction on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device; provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to a voice-operated or
hands-free communication feature which is automatically converted by such
device to be sent as a message in a written form;
      (3)   Make any communication involving a wireless telecommunications
device, including a phone call, voice message, or one-way voice communication;
provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to a voice operated or hands-
free communication feature or function;
      (4)   Engage in any form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data
communication on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device;
      (5)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into any website,
search engine, or application on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-
alone electronic device;
      (6)   Watch a video or movie on a wireless telecommunications device or
standalone electronic device other than watching data related to the navigation
of such vehicle;
      (7)   Record, post, send, or broadcast video, including a video
conference on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device; provided, that such prohibition does not apply to electronic devices
used for the sole purpose of continuously recording or broadcasting video
within or outside of the motor vehicle; or
      (8)   Actively play any game on a wireless telecommunications device or
stand-alone electronic device.
   (G)   While operating a commercial motor vehicle on any highway of this
state, no driver may:
      (1)   Use more than a single button on a wireless telecommunications
device to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      (2)   Reach for a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone
electronic device in such a manner that requires the driver to:
         (a)   No longer be in a seated driving position; or
         (b)   No longer be properly restrained by a safety belt.
   (H)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (I)   It is a misdemeanor for any driver to violate any of the provisions of
this section. Every driver convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of
the provisions of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   For a first conviction with no prior conviction of and no plea of
no contest accepted to a charge of violating this section within the previous
24-month period, as measured from the date of any prior conviction or plea, a
fine of not more than $100;
      (2)   For a second conviction within a 24-month period, as measured from
the date of any prior conviction or plea, a fine of not more than $200;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent conviction within a 24-month period, as
measured from the date of any prior conviction or plea:
         (a)   A fine of not more than $350;
         (b)   Three points on the driver’s record maintained by the Division
of Motor Vehicles; and
         (c)   At the court’s discretion, suspension of the driver’s license
for a period of 90 days.
      (4)   Any driver who causes physical harm to property as the proximate
result of committing a violation of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable up to 30 days in jail or a fine not less than $100 and not more than
$500;
      (5)   Any driver who causes serious physical harm to another person as
the proximate result of committing a violation of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, or
confined in jail up to 120 days, or both fined and confined, and such driver
shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year; and
      (6)   Any driver who causes the death of another as the proximate result
of committing a violation of this section is guilty of negligent homicide and
shall be punished in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5-1.
   (J)   The Department of Transportation shall cause to be erected signs upon
any highway entering the state of West Virginia on which a welcome to West
Virginia sign is posted, and any other highway where the Division of Highways
deems appropriate, posted at a distance of not more than one mile from each
border crossing, each sign to bear an inscription clearly communicating to
motorists entering the state that texting, or the use of a wireless
communication device without hands-free equipment, is illegal within the state.
   (K)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law-enforcement agency.
   (L)   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance
shall contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment
of any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this section, as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
   (M)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Drivers reporting to state, county, or local authorities a traffic
accident, medical emergency, fire, an actual or potential criminal or
delinquent act, or a road condition that causes an immediate and serious
traffic or safety hazard;
      (2)   An employee or contractor of a utility services provider acting
within the scope of his or her employment while responding to a utility
emergency;
      (3)   A driver operating a commercial vehicle while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (4)   A law-enforcement officer, firefighter, emergency medical services
personnel, ambulance driver, or other similarly employed public safety first
responder during the performance of his or her official duties; or
      (5)   While in a motor vehicle that is lawfully parked.
   (N)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-
3a, or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor vehicles
prescribed either by the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17E-1-1 et seq. or by
federal law or rule.
   (O)   The amendments to this section adopted during the regular session of
the Legislature in 2023, shall be known as the Robin W. Ames Memorial Act.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15) (Prior Code, § 13-1125)
§ 13-1126 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article for which no other penalty is
provided shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 13-1126)
ARTICLE 12: EQUIPMENT
Section
   
13-1200   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment
exceptions
   
13-1201   When lighted lights required
   
13-1202   Measurement of distances and heights
   
13-1203   Headlight on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
13-1204   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
13-1205   Application of §§ 13-1206 to 13-1210
   
13-1206   Additional lighting and reflector equipment required on certain
vehicles
   
13-1207   Color of clearance lamps, side marker lamps, and reflectors
   
13-1208   Mounting of reflectors, clearance lamps, and side marker lamps
   
13-1209   Visibility of reflectors, clearance lamps, and marker lamps
   
13-1210   Obstructed lights not required to be lighted
   
13-1211   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
13-1212   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
13-1213   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
13-1214   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
13-1215   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
13-1216   Cowl, fender, and back up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
13-1217   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
13-1218   Use of headlight beams
   
13-1219   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
13-1220   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds
   
13-1221   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
13-1222   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
13-1223   Special restrictions on lights
   
13-1224   Motor vehicle or motor brakes
   
13-1225   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds
   
13-1226   Horn, siren, and theft alarm signal
   
13-1227   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas, or noise
   
13-1228   Rear-view mirror
   
13-1229   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
13-1230   Tire equipment restrictions
   
13-1231   Safety glass in motor vehicles
   
13-1232   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
13-1233   Television receiver in driver’s view prohibited
   
13-1234   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles,
and mopeds
   
13-1235   Certification labels on mopeds
   
13-1236   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and
booster seats
   
13-1237   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
13-1238   Alteration of suspension system
   
13-1239   Sun screening devices
   
13-1240   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
 
   
13-1241   Penalty
§ 13-1200 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved, on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this article, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this article, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required under this article.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this article.
   (C)   The provisions of this article, with respect to equipment on vehicles,
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor equipped
with an electric lighting system shall, at all times mentioned in §
13-1201, display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
13-1201.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1) (Prior Code, § 13-1200)
§ 13-1201 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle, other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, operated upon a highway within this state at any time from sunset to
sunrise, or during fog, smoke, rain, or other unfavorable atmospheric
conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500
feet ahead, shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating devices as
hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles, subject to
exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
13-1212(C). Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the highway. Lighted lamps
and other lighting devices that consist of multiple light-emitting diodes
(LEDs) or other illuminating components that function as a single lighting unit
are deemed to be functional so long as at least 66% of the LEDs or other
illuminating components are functional; provided, that the lighted lamps or
lighting devices must still project sufficient illumination to satisfy all
other requirements contained in this article.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-2) (Prior Code, § 13-1201)
§ 13-1202 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
13-1201 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3) (Prior Code, § 13-1202)
§ 13-1203 HEADLIGHT ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two, head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this article.
   (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches, nor less than 24 inches, to
be measured as set forth in §
13-1202.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-4) (Prior Code, § 13-1203)
§ 13-1204 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches, nor less than 20 inches, to be measured as set forth in §
13-1202(B).
   (C)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-5) (Prior Code, § 13-1204)
§ 13-1205 APPLICATION OF §§ 13-1206 TO 13-1210.
   Those sections of this article which follow immediately, including §§
13-1206 through
13-1210 and relating to clearance and marker lamps, reflectors, and stop
lights, shall apply as stated in said sections to vehicles of the type therein
enumerated, namely passenger buses, trucks, truck tractors, and certain
trailers, semi-trailers, and pole trailers, respectively, when operated upon
any highway, and said vehicles shall be equipped as required and all lamp
equipment required shall be lighted at the times mentioned in §
13-1201, except that clearance and side marker lamps need not be lighted on any
said vehicle when operated within any municipality where there is sufficient
light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-8) (Prior Code, § 13-1205)
§ 13-1206 ADDITIONAL LIGHTING AND REFLECTOR EQUIPMENT REQUIRED ON CERTAIN
VEHICLES.
   In addition to other equipment required in this article, the following
vehicles shall be equipped as herein stated under the conditions stated in §
13-1209:
   (A)   On every bus or truck, whatever its size, there shall be the
following: On the rear, two reflectors, one at each side, and one stop light;
   (B)   On every bus or truck 80 inches or more in overall width, in addition
to the requirements in division (A) above:
      (1)   On the front, two clearance lamps, one at each side;
      (2)   On the rear, two clearance lamps, one at each side;
      (3)   On each side, two side marker lamps, one at or near the front and
one at or near the rear; and
      (4)   On each side, two reflectors, one at or near the front and one at
or near the rear.
   (C)   On every truck tractor:
      (1)   On the front, two clearance lamps, one at each side; and
      (2)   On the rear, one stop light.
   (D)   On every trailer or semi-trailer having a gross weight in excess of
3,000 pounds:
      (1)   On the front, two clearance lamps, one at each side;
      (2)   On each side, two side marker lamps, one at or near the front and
one at or near the rear;
      (3)   On each side, two reflectors, one at or near the front and one at
or near the rear; and
      (4)   On the rear, two clearance lamps, one at each side, also two
reflectors, one at each side, and one stop light.
   (E)   On every pole trailer in excess of 3,000 pounds gross weight:
      (1)   On each side, one side marker lamp and one clearance lamp which may
be in combination to show to the front, side, and rear; and
      (2)   On the rear of the pole trailer or load, two reflectors, one at
each side.
   (F)   On every trailer, semi-trailer, or pole trailer weighing 3,000 pounds
gross or less: On the rear, two reflectors, one on each side. If any trailer or
semi-trailer is so loaded or is of such dimensions as to obscure the stop light
on the towing vehicle, then such vehicle shall also be equipped with one stop
light.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-9) (Prior Code, § 13-1206)
§ 13-1207 COLOR OF CLEARANCE LAMPS, SIDE MARKER LAMPS, AND REFLECTORS.
   (A)   Front clearance lamps and those marker lamps and reflectors mounted on
the front or on the side near the front of a vehicle shall display or reflect
an amber color.
   (B)   Rear clearance lamps and those marker lamps and reflectors mounted on
the rear or on the sides near the rear of a vehicle shall display or reflect a
red color.
   (C)   All lighting devices and reflectors mounted on the rear of any vehicle
shall display or reflect a red color, except the stop light or other signal
device, which may be red, amber, or yellow, and except that the light
illuminating the license plate or the light emitted by a back-up light shall be
white.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-10) (Prior Code, § 13-1207)
§ 13-1208 MOUNTING OF REFLECTORS, CLEARANCE LAMPS, AND SIDE MARKER LAMPS.
   (A)   Reflectors, when required by §
13-1206, shall be mounted at a height not less than 24 inches, and not higher
than 60 inches, above the ground on which the vehicle stands, except that if
the highest part of the permanent structure of the vehicle is less than 24
inches, the reflector at such point shall be mounted as high as that part of
the permanent structure will permit.
      (1)   The rear reflectors on a pole trailer may be mounted on each side
of the bolster or load.
      (2)   Any required red reflector on the rear of a vehicle may be
incorporated with the tail lamp, but such reflector shall meet all the other
reflector requirements of this article.
   (B)   Clearance lamps shall be mounted on the permanent structure of the
vehicle in such manner as to indicate its extreme width, and as near the top
thereof as practicable. Clearance lamps and side marker lamps may be mounted in
combination, provided illumination is given as required herein with reference
to both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-11) (Prior Code, § 13-1208)
§ 13-1209 VISIBILITY OF REFLECTORS, CLEARANCE LAMPS, AND MARKER LAMPS.
   (A)   (1)   Every reflector upon any vehicle referred to in §
13-1206 shall be of such size and characteristics, and so maintained, as to be
readily visible at nighttime from all distances within 500 feet to 50 feet from
the vehicle when directly in front of lawful upper beams of head lamps.
      (2)   Reflectors required to be mounted on the sides of the vehicle shall
reflect the required color of light to the sides, and those mounted on the rear
shall reflect a red color to the rear.
   (B)   Front and rear clearance lamps shall be capable of being seen and
distinguished under normal atmospheric conditions at the times lights are
required at a distance of 500 feet from the front and rear, respectively, of
the vehicle.
   (C)   Side marker lamps shall be capable of being seen and distinguished
under normal atmospheric conditions at the times lights are required at a
distance of 500 feet from the side of the vehicle on which mounted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-12) (Prior Code, § 13-1209)
§ 13-1210 OBSTRUCTED LIGHTS NOT REQUIRED TO BE LIGHTED.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any lamp (except tail lamps) need not be lighted
which, by reason of its location on a vehicle of the combination, would be
obscured by another vehicle of the combination, but this shall not affect the
requirement that lighted clearance lamps be displayed on the front of the
foremost vehicle required to have clearance lamps, nor that all lights required
on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be lighted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-13) (Prior Code, § 13-1210)
§ 13-1211 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
13-1201, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the entire area
is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-14) (Prior Code, § 13-1211)
§ 13-1212 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise, and in the event there is sufficient
light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such
street or highway, no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise, and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements: At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp, or at least one other lamp, shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp, or combination of lamps,
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped.
   (C)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-15) (Prior Code, § 13-1212)
§ 13-1213 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles, including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred
to in §
13-1200(C), not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
13-1201 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a
white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-16) (Prior Code, § 13-1213)
§ 13-1214 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, a lamp or lighting device meets the
requirements specified below so long as any portion of the illuminating surface
of the lamp or lighting device is within the specified range.
   (B)   All lamps and lighting devices covered in this section may be
installed so that the entire lamp or lighting device exceeds 42 inches above
the level surface upon which the vehicle stands so long as such lamps or
lighting devices are either covered or dimmable.
      (1)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp, but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this division.
      (2)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
      (3)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary passing lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this article.
      (4)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
      (5)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle
may be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device
comprised of multiple lamps: provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or
driven upon any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting
device shall be turned off while the vehicle is being operated on any road or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-17) (Prior Code, § 13-1214)
§ 13-1215 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped, and when required under this
traffic code shall be equipped, with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear, which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake, and which
may, but need not, be incorporated with a tail lamp; and
      (2)   A lamp or lamps, or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left, and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (B)   (1)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime,
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear.
      (2)   When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal lamps,
such lamp or lamps shall, at all times, be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
13-1201.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-18) (Prior Code, § 13-1215)
§ 13-1216 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (C)   All motor vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of at least two
functioning back-up lamps either separately or in combination with other lamps,
unless the vehicle was originally equipped with one lamp. Any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses
used for the transportation of school children in this municipality, whether
owned and operated by a county board of education or privately owned and
operated under contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped
with at least two back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white
lens or reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of
the bus for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the
county board of education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination
intensity instead of 32 candlepower.
   (D)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this article. The lamps used
to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (E)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering, or picking up mail along the route.
   (F)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking, or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this article. The lamps or flashing
lights used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display
simultaneously either illuminating or flashing purple lights. The lamps used to
display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing
or illuminated purple lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-19) (Prior Code, § 13-1216)
§ 13-1217 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof, on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations, and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (B)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   (C)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, or moped, registered in the state after January 1, 1952, which has
multiple-beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
head lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted.
      (2)   Such indicator shall be so designed and located that when lighted
it will be readily visible without glare to the driver of the vehicle so
equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-20) (Prior Code, § 13-1217)
§ 13-1218 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
13-1201, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations.
   (A)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in §
13-1217(B), shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road
contour and loading.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this traffic
code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
13-1217(A).
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-21)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $100.
(Prior Code, § 13-1218)
§ 13-1219 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952 in lieu
of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations:
   (A)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall, at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (B)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-22) (Prior Code, § 13-1219)
§ 13-1220 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type, but in either event
shall comply with the requirements and limitations as follows:
   (A)   Every head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
mph and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated at a speed
of 25 mph or more.
   (B)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps, the upper beam shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the limitations set
forth in this code, and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements
applicable to a lowermost distribution of light as set forth in this code.
   (C)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
single-beam lamp or lamps, such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when the
vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it comes.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) below, a motorcycle may be equipped
with, and an operator of a motorcycle may use, the following auxiliary
lighting:
         (a)   Amber and white illumination;
         (b)   Standard bulb running lights; or
         (c)   Light-emitting diode pods and strips.
      (2)   Lighting under this subsection shall be:
         (a)   Nonblinking;
         (b)   Nonflashing;
         (c)   Nonoscillating; and
         (d)   Directed toward the engine and the drive train of the motorcycle
to prevent interference with the driver’s operation of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-23) (Prior Code, § 13-1220)
§ 13-1221 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
13-1201 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
13-1217 or
13-1219, provided that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of
20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-24) (Prior Code, § 13-1221)
§ 13-1222 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
13-1201, at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp, or any other lamp, on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-25) (Prior Code, § 13-1222)
§ 13-1223 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps, or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person may drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device on the vehicle displaying other than a white or amber
light visible from directly in front of the center of the vehicle except as
authorized by division (D) hereof.
   (C)   Except as authorized in divisions (D) and (G) of this section,
flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any vehicle as
a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means of
indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may have
blinking or flashing lights.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this traffic code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated.
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each police department.
      (2)   Except for standard authorized vehicle equipment, red flashing
warning lights are restricted to the following:
         (a)   Ambulances;
         (b)   Fire-fighting vehicles;
         (c)   Hazardous material response vehicles;
         (d)   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
         (e)   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a fire department;
         (f)   School buses;
         (g)   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code §§ 17A-10-1 et seq.,
of those firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have the
lights;
         (h)   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department;
         (i)   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
         (j)   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active
members of state fire departments, ambulance services or duly chartered rescue
squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have the lights;
         (k)   The State Department of Agriculture emergency response vehicles;
         (l)   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security for emergency response or emergency management by the
Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional Facility Authority,
Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management;
         (m)   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency management
personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security
and the county commission of the county of residence; and
         (n)   Emergency management and operations vehicles operated by
airports. Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle may be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services, or
chartered rescue squads.
      (3)   The use of red flashing warning lights is authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (b)   Authorization for all fire department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (c)   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (d)   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a fire department shall be designated by the squad chief, the sheriff of the
county of residence and the Department of Health;
         (e)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12;
         (f)   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (g)   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and the sheriff of
the county of residence;
         (h)   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence and
the Department of Health;
         (i)   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a state fire department, ambulance services,
or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their respective chiefs;
         (j)   Authorization for the State Department of Agriculture emergency
response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner of the Department of
Agriculture;
         (k)   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security;
         (l)   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence; and
         (m)   Authorization for emergency management and operations vehicles
operated by airports shall be designated by the airport director and the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and § 17C-15-27;
         (b)   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized;
         (c)   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         (d)   Flag car services;
         (e)   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         (f)   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         (g)   Snow removal equipment;
         (h)   School buses; and
         (i)   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation, and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence.
         (b)   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways.
         (c)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
         (d)   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard for automotive fire
apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) on
July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by legislative rule (87
C.S.R. §§ 1 et seq.), except as follows:
      1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive fire
apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of its
manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
      2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or flashing
headlamps.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any vehicle
belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving funding
from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of providing
general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped with a
white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be installed on
the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling
solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward from the rear of
the roof edge. The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360
degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than
six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to
indicate the light is in operation.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any waste
service vehicle as defined in W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11 may be equipped with
yellow or amber flashing warning lights.
   (G)   It is unlawful for flashing warning lights of an unauthorized color to
be installed or used on a vehicle other than as specified in this section,
except that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red
warning lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26) (Prior Code, § 13-1223)
§ 13-1224 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTOR BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, when operated upon a street or highway, shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more, when operated upon a street or highway, shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and to hold such vehicle, and
so designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer hereinafter sold
in this state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped and any semi-
trailer of less than1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes of any trailer equipped with
brakes in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles,
motor-driven cycles, and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking brakes adequate
to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under all conditions
of loading on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material. The parking
brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the foregoing
requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action, or by
equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power, provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (7)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (8)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                              Feet to stop from 20 mph Deceleration in feet per
                                                       second
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on all 30                       14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes on 40                       10.7
all wheels
 
   (C)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-31) (Prior Code, § 13-1224)
§ 13-1225 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, AND MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has
disapproved the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-32) (Prior Code, § 13-1225)
§ 13-1226 HORN, SIREN, AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a street or highway,
shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200
feet, but no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or
harsh sound or a whistle.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   (D)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions
from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of
an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the
driver of such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-33) (Prior Code, § 13-1226)
§ 13-1227 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, OR NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move on any street or highway within the city
any motor vehicle, trailer, semi-truck, or pole trailer, or any combination
thereof, unless the equipment upon every such vehicle is in good working order
and adjustment, and the vehicle is in such safe mechanical condition as not to
endanger the driver or other occupant, or any person, upon any street or
highway within the city. Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Every motor vehicle shall, at all times, be equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise; such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof.
      (2)   No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device
upon a motor vehicle on a street or highway within the city.
      (3)   The engine and power mechanisms of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke. Any
person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-34) (Prior Code, § 13-1227)
§ 13-1228 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-35) (Prior Code, § 13-1228)
§ 13-1229 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, or
other non-transparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, or side
or rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
street or highway, or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36)
   (D)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 13-1229)
§ 13-1230 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided that in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a highway, other than
school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are operational with a
recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square inch.
   (D)   Council may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a highway
would otherwise be prohibited under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-37) (Prior Code, § 13-1230)
§ 13-1231 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after July 1, 1951, no person shall operate any motor
vehicle, as specified herein, nor shall any motor vehicle, as specified herein,
be registered thereafter unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glass of a
type approved by the Commissioner of Highways wherever glass is used in doors,
windows, and windshields.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall apply to all passenger-type motor
vehicles, including passenger buses and school buses, but in respect to trucks,
including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glass shall apply to
all glass used in doors, windows, and windshields in the drivers’ compartments
of such vehicles.
   (B)   The term SAFETY GLASS shall mean any product composed of glass, so
manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and
flying of the glass when struck or broken, or such other or similar product as
may be approved by the Commissioner.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-38) (Prior Code, § 13-1231)
§ 13-1232 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall, at all times, comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (B)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-41) (Prior Code, § 13-1232)
§ 13-1233 TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW PROHIBITED.
      (A)   No motor vehicle may be operated on a street or highway when
equipped with a television receiver, video monitor, television, or video screen
unless the receiver, screen, or monitor is configured so that the moving images
are not in view of the operator while the vehicle is in motion, or if falls
within one or more of the categories set forth in divisions (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   This prohibition does not apply to the following equipment installed
in a vehicle:
      (1)   A visual display if it does not show video or television broadcast
images in view of the operator while the motor vehicle is in motion;
      (2)   A global positioning device;
      (3)   A mapping display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind, or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement a driver’s view of
vehicle occupants; or
      (6)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering information.
   (C)   A television receiver, video monitor, television or video screen, or
other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal is not prohibited if the equipment has an interlock device that, when
the motor vehicle is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a
visual display described in division (B)(1) through (6) above.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-42) (Prior Code, § 13-1233)
§ 13-1234 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES,
AND MOPEDS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration, and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (B)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses), or eye goggles or face shield that complies with
the performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (C) No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D) A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall ride
in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s seat
attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person nor shall any
other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to carry
more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the operator
upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the operator’s seat
and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the passenger or in
a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride sidesaddle on a
seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are seats and footrests
to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may be carried in a
factory produced side car provided that there is one passenger per seat.
Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (E) Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with a
rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that the
operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic behind
him for a distance of at least 200 feet.
   (F)   (1)   AUTOCYCLE means a fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that is
equipped with safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror, automotive
seating, a steering wheel and equipment otherwise required on a motorcycle and
which has no more than three wheels in contact with the roadway at any one
time.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-69)
   (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a person
with a valid driver’s license who is operating a fully enclosed autocycle, as
defined in division (F)(1) above, is exempt from the provisions of this
section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-44)
(Prior Code, § 13-1234)
§ 13-1235 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in this municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of, and conformance to, federal standards as required by
federal law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-45) (Prior Code, § 13-1235)
§ 13-1236 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND
BOOSTER SEATS.
   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van, or pickup truck, other than one operated for hire,
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining, and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (B)   A violation of this section does not, by virtue of the violation,
constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence, or comparative
negligence, in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (C)   If any provision of this section, or the application thereof, to any
person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other
provisions or applications of this section, and to this end the divisions of
this section are declared to be severable.
   (D)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices, as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46) (Prior Code, § 13-1236)
§ 13-1237 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va.
Code Art. 17C-16 shall operate, or permit to be operated, such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval, or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-16-9) (Prior Code, § 13-1237)
§ 13-1238 ALTERATION OF SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered, or required to be registered, in this state if it has been
modified by alteration of its bumper mounting on the frame more than four
inches from the lower edge of the original manufactured bumper configuration
for that vehicle. The bumper must be at least three inches in vertical width,
centered on the centerline of the motor vehicle and not less than the width of
the wheel track distance. The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall not exceed three inches, and the distance from the vehicle
body to the vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to
the vehicle frame mount seat. No vehicle shall be modified to cause the vehicle
body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose the fuel tank to
damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact with the body
under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system shall be
disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system. Front end
suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly prohibited. However, nothing
contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy duty equipment,
including shock absorbers and overload springs. Nothing contained in this
section prohibits the operation on a public street or highway of a motor
vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system if such normal wear does not
adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered in this state if it has been modified by alteration of its
altitude from the ground to the extent that its bumpers, measured to any point
on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper bar, exclusive of any bumper
guards, do not fall within the limits specified herein for its gross vehicle
weight rating category. The front and rear bumper height of trucks whose gross
vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or less may be no less than six inches
and no more than 31 inches. The provisions of this division (B) do not apply to
trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds. For the
purpose of this section, the term GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATINGS means the
manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings established for that vehicle.
   (C)   In the absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been
lowered or modified more than four inches, height measurements under divisions
(A) or (B) above shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail.
   (D)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets or highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the highways of this
state.
   (E)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration as set out in the provisions of this section unless the
tires on the altered motor vehicle meet specifications approved by the United
States Department of Transportation. In addition, neither the motor vehicle nor
the chassis shall come in contact with the tires under normal operation.
   (F)   Modified vehicles must have a special inspection sticker which must be
inspected by July 31, 1990. The Police Department shall record on accident
report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the accident.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48) (Prior Code, § 13-1238)
§ 13-1239 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow, or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a nonreflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (F)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this State in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes, and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed either on
a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      NONREFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather than
to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a) (Prior Code, § 13-1239)
§ 13-1240 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   A person may not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street or
highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards. For the purposes of this section, the term PASSENGER VEHICLE means a
motor vehicle which is designed for transporting 15 passengers or less,
including the driver, except that the term does not include a motorcycle, a
trailer or any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment
of this section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped
with a belt system. The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after January 1, 1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (B)   The required use of safety belts as provided in this section does not
apply to a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States
Postal Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or
operator with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would
prevent appropriate restraint in the safety belt if the condition is duly
certified by a physician who states the nature of the disability as well as the
reason such restraint is inappropriate.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined
$25. No court costs or other fees may be assessed for a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (E)   This section does not abrogate or alter the provisions of § 13-1236
relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49) (Prior Code, § 13-1240)
§ 13-1241 PENALTY.
   (A)   General article penalty. Unless otherwise provided for in this
article, any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not
more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be
fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Brakes. Any person violating §§
13-1224 or
13-1225 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-6)
   (C)   Sun screening devices. Whoever violates §
13-1239 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
(Prior Code, § 13-1241)
ARTICLE 13: SIZE, WEIGHT, LOAD, ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES
Section
   
13-1300   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
13-1301   Maximum width, height, and length
   
13-1302   Loads to be securely fastened and not allowed to leak, escape, and
the like
   
13-1303   Trailers and towed vehicles
   
13-1304   Vehicles transporting compressed gas containers
   
13-1305   Single-axle load limit
   
13-1306   Gross weight of vehicles and loads
   
13-1307   Officers may weigh, measure, or examine vehicles and required removal
or rearrangement of excess loads
   
13-1308   Penalties for violations of weight laws; impounding vehicles
   
13-1309   Use of engine compression brakes prohibited
§ 13-1300 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route. No person shall operate or move a vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in W. Va. Code Art. 17C-17 upon any state route within the
municipality, except pursuant to special written permit shall be carried in the
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer. No holder of a permit issued by the
Commissioner of Highways shall be required to obtain any local permit or
license, or pay any local fee or charge for movement on any state route within
the municipality; however, it shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, upon any roadway within the municipality which is not
a state route, except as provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Use of local streets.
      (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as specified in
§
13-1302, or exceeding a gross weight of nine tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle, or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of
vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route
within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order
to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
      (2)   Through trucks must use the approved authorized truck routes when
traveling within the corporate limits of the city, and are prohibited from
using municipal streets as shortcuts or links between authorized truck routes.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate a truck,
trailer, or semi-trailer on any municipal street or alley within the corporate
limits of the city unless making a pickup or delivery to a destination point on
a municipal street to accomplish the business or purposes related to the truck,
trailer, or semi-trailer. This section does not apply to vehicles owned and
controlled by the city or authorized emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 9
tons,” or words of similar import, to apprise drivers of the limitations
imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on
any such sign.
   (C)   Local permit and conditions. Upon application and for good cause, the
Police Chief or City Recorder in his or her absence, may issue a local permit
authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle or
combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (1)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle, or combination of
vehicles, on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the
approval of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon
state routes as provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time not to exceed one year as the Police Chief, in his or
her discretion, deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle, or combination of vehicles, by designating the
route, hours, speed, or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health, and safety. The Police
Chief may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate
for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (3)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $10, and charge
for each hour of time, or any part thereof, spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle.
   (D)   Signs. Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight
9 tons,” or words of similar import, to apprise drivers of the limitations
imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on
any such sign.
   (E)   Violations. Violation of any of the limitations, terms, or conditions
of the permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate
revocation or suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future
permit. Such violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty
prescribed by §
13-21.
(Prior Code, § 13-1300)
§ 13-1301 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet, six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure, and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic-control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices, or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet,
six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (C) or in division (D)
below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more than
two units, and no combination of vehicles, including any load thereon, shall
have an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55
feet, except as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise
provided in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W. Va. Code §
17C-17-5. The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may
not consist of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation, and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (D)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers, of 65 feet.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D)
above, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own motion
or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle length not
to exceed 70 feet.
   (F)   The length limitations for truck-tractor-semi-trailer combinations and
truck-tractor- semi-trailer-trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways, and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation, and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest, and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the State Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semi-trailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semi-trailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length, except where semi-trailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck-tractor and the front axle of the semi-
trailer, such semi-trailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semi-trailer or trailer operating in a
truck-tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in
length, and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including
the truck tractor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an
overall length limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck-
tractor-semi-trailer or truck-tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combinations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (G)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code
Art. 17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways, or on any street or highway having
a minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (H)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2)
   (I)   (1)   No trucks over 50 Feet total length on WV RT 74, within the
city, beginning at milepost 23.05, being the junction of CR Route 50/39, E.
Myles Avenue, and running north to milepost 23.65, being the junction of CR 74/
10, McDougal Drive, a total distance of approximately 60 miles.
      (2)   Division (I)(1) above, being pursuant to the State Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways Commissioner Order dated January 31, 2018.
(W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2A-12, 17C-2-8, 17A-3-2, 17C-6-2)
         (a)   Except a combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of
which is a motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of
which is a travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall
length, exclusive of front and rear bumpers of 65 feet.
         (b)   Except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length
of 45 feet, exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
(Prior Code, § 13-1302)
§ 13-1302 LOADS TO BE SECURELY FASTENED AND NOT ALLOWED TO LEAK, ESCAPE, AND
THE LIKE.
   (A)   No vehicle, or combination of vehicles, shall be operated on any
street or highway unless such vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for
the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled
on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, with any load unless such load, and any covering
thereon, is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from
becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to other users of the
street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-6) (Prior Code, § 13-1303)
§ 13-1303 TRAILERS AND TOWED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby, and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other, except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery, or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-7)
   (C)   Whoever violates § 113.13 shall, for a first offense, be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-11-1)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
13-1119 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17D-2A-9)
(Prior Code, § 13-1304)
§ 13-1304 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING COMPRESSED GAS CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person operating a vehicle transporting any
container of compressed gas as a cargo or part of a cargo upon a highway in an
open motor vehicle unless it is securely braced, equipped with an individual
shutoff valve that must be tightly closed while in transit, and its valves are
protected by one of the following methods:
      (1)   By equipping the cylinder with securely attached metal caps of
sufficient strength to protect valves from damage during transportation;
      (2)   By boxing or crating the cylinder with securely attached metal caps
of sufficient strength so as to protect valves from damage during
transportation; or
      (3)   By constructing the cylinder so that the valve is recessed into the
cylinder, or otherwise protected to the extent that it will not be subjected to
a blow when the container is dropped onto a flat surface.
   (B)   The requirements of this section are not applicable to propane gas
used for household purposes, or to respiratory health care products in use by
the person operating the vehicle.
   (C)   The Commissioner of the Division of Highways is hereby authorized and
directed to propose a legislative rule governing the transportation of
compressed gas containers by vehicles upon the highways for promulgation in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 29a of this code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-6a) (Prior Code, § 13-1305)
§ 13-1305 SINGLE-AXLE LOAD LIMIT.
   (A)   The gross weight imposed on the highway by the wheels of any one axle
of a vehicle shall not exceed 20,000 pounds.
   (B)   For the purpose of this article, an AXLE LOAD shall be defined as the
total load transmitted to the road by all wheels whose centers are included
between two parallel transverse vertical planes 40 inches apart, extending
across the full width of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-8) (Prior Code, § 13-1306)
§ 13-1306 GROSS WEIGHT OF VEHICLES AND LOADS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any owner, lessee, or borrower of a vehicle,
or combination of vehicles, to operate on any highway other than the national
system of interstate and defense highways that vehicle, or combination of
vehicles, with a gross weight in excess of the gross weight for which such
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is registered or in excess of any weight
limitation set forth in this article, whether such limitation be specifically
stated in this article or set by express authority granted this article.
      (2)   Provided, that if any vehicle is operated within the tolerances
established in this section for the gross weight of that vehicle, then that
vehicle shall be deemed for all purposes to be operating at the gross weight
for which it is registered, and the registered weight is deemed to include the
10% tolerance associated with it under this section.
   (B)   Subject to the limit upon the weight imposed upon the highway through
any one axle as set forth in §
13-1307, the total gross weight on vehicles, or combination of vehicles,
operated on any highway other than the national system of interstate and
defense highways shall be as follows:
      (1)   A single unit truck having one steering axle and two axles in
tandem shall be limited to a maximum gross weight of 60,000 pounds with a
tolerance of 10%;
      (2)   A single unit truck having one steering axle and three axles in
tridem arrangement shall be limited to a maximum gross weight of 70,000 pounds
with a tolerance of 10%;
      (3)   A single unit truck having one steering axle and four axles in
quadem arrangement shall be limited to a maximum gross weight of 73,000 pounds
with a tolerance of 10%; and
      (4)   A tractor-semi-trailer combination with five axles, a tractor-semi-
trailer combination with six or more axles, a single unit truck having one
steering axle and two axles in tandem in combination with a trailer with two
axles, and a single unit truck having one steering axle and three axles in
tridem in combination with a trailer with two axles, shall be limited to a
maximum gross weight of 80,000 pounds with a tolerance of 10%.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-9a) (Prior Code, § 13-1307)
§ 13-1307 OFFICERS MAY WEIGH, MEASURE, OR EXAMINE VEHICLES AND REQUIRED REMOVAL
OR REARRANGEMENT OF EXCESS LOADS.
   (A)   (1)   Any police officer or employee of the Division of Highways or
the Public Service Commission designated as a commercial vehicle enforcement
member of an official weighing crew by his or her representative agency may
require the driver of any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, located on or
within 100 feet of any public highway or right-of-way, and whether moving or
stopped, to submit the vehicle or combination of vehicles to a weighing with
portable or stationary weighing devices, or submit the vehicle, or combination
of vehicles, to a measuring or to any other examination necessary to determine
if the vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is in violation of any of the
provisions of this article or W. Va. Code Ch. 17A, and may require that the
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, be driven to the nearest weighing device.
      (2)   (a)   No vehicle, or combination of vehicles, may be detained for
weighing unless a portable or stationary weighing device is actually present at
the location where, and at the time, the vehicle, or combination of vehicles,
is stopped or unless the vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is escorted
immediately after being stopped to the nearest portable or stationary weighing
device.
         (b)   In no case may a vehicle, or combination of vehicles, be
detained more than one hour from the time it is stopped for weighing unless the
vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is impounded for another violation or
placed out of service for a safety violation.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a police officer or a member of an official weighing
crew or a commercial vehicle enforcement officer determines that a vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, is in violation of any of the provisions of this
article, he or she may require the driver to remain in place or be moved to a
suitable location until the vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is brought
into conformity with the provisions violated.
      (2)   In the case of a weight violation, all material unloaded shall be
cared for by the owner, lessee, or borrower of the vehicle, or combination of
vehicles, at the risk of the owner, lessee, or borrower; provided, that no
criminal charge shall be preferred against any driver, operator, or owner of a
vehicle when a rearrangement of the load upon the vehicle, without removal of
the load from the vehicle, reduces the axle loads of the vehicle to the limit
permitted under this article.
   (C)   (1)   Any driver of a vehicle, or combination of vehicles, who fails
or refuses to comply with any requirement or provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, or in the case of any driver of a vehicle engaged in
the transportation of coal, any other additional penalties that may be
applicable under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17A.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-10)
      (2)   The owner, lessee, or borrower of any vehicle, object, or
contrivance driven or moved upon any highway or highway structure shall be
liable for all damage, which said highway or structure may sustain as a result
of any illegal operation, driving, or moving of such vehicle, object, or
contrivance, or as a result of operating, driving, or moving any vehicle,
object, or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight in this article
but authorized by a special permit issued as provided in this article. Such
damage may be recovered in civil action brought by the authorities in control
of such highway or highway structure.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-13)
(Prior Code, § 13-1308)
§ 13-1308 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF WEIGHT LAWS; IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   Any owner, lessee, or borrower of a vehicle, or combination of vehicles, who
operates, or permits to be operated, on any highway such vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, with any axle load in excess of that permitted by the
State Code or by the provisions of the city ordinances, or with a total gross
weight with load imposed upon the highway by any one group of two or more
consecutive axles in excess of that permitted, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine
scheduled in proportion to the amount of pounds in excess of the registered
weight, or in excess of allowable weights for single axle, or in excess of
allowable weights for groups of two or more consecutive axles, in accordance
with the schedule in words and figures as follows:
   (A)   The amount of fine, when pounds in excess of registered weight, or in
excess of allowable weights for single axle, or in excess of allowable weights
for groups of two or more consecutive axles.
1 to 4,000       $20
4,001 to 5,000   $25
5,001 to 6,000   $60
6,001 to 7,000   $70
7,001 to 8,000   $80
8,001 to 9,000   $90
9,001 to 10,000  $100
10,001 to 11,000 $165
11,001 to 12,000 $180
12,001 to 13,000 $195
13,001 to 14,000 $210
14,001 to 15,000 $225
15,001 to 16,000 $320
16,001 to 17,000 $340
17,001 to 18,000 $360
18,001 to 19,000 $380
19,001 to 20,000 $400
20,001 to 21,000 $525
21,001 to 22,000 $550
22,001 to 23,000 $575
23,001 to 24,000 $600
24,001 to 25,000 $625
25,001 to 26,000 $780
26,001 to 27,000 $810
27,001 to 28,000 $840
28,001 to 29,000 $870
29,001 to 30,000 $900
30,001 to 40,000 $1,200
40,001 to 50,000 $1,400
50,001 and over  $1,600
 
   (B)   In the event any owner, lessee, or borrower of a vehicle is charged
with violating this section, the vehicle which is charged to be overloaded
shall be impounded by the arresting officer and shall not be released to such
owner, lessee, or borrower unless and until such owner, lessee, or borrower
either shall have been found guilty and paid any fine assessed against such
owner, lessee, or borrower, or shall have furnished cash or surety bond in at
least double the amount of the fine which may be assessed against such owner,
lessee, or borrower for such violation of this section, and conditioned upon
the payment of any such fine and costs assessed for such violation, or shall
have been acquitted of such charge. Such owner, lessee, or borrower shall be
liable for any reasonable storage costs incurred in storing such vehicles;
provided, that if the owner of such vehicle is a resident of, or has a
principal place of business, located in this state, and said vehicle has been
duly licensed in the state, then said vehicle shall not be impounded, but the
arresting officer shall deliver to the driver a written notice stating such
violation; the place, date, and time; the license number of said vehicle; the
title number, and name and address of the owner; the driver’s name, address,
and the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s card or permit; and the
court, place, date, and time for hearing, which shall be within five days of
such violation (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excluded). A copy of such
notice shall, within 48 hours, be mailed to the owner of said vehicle. Upon the
failure by such owner or his, her, or its agent, to appear at the designated
place and time, or upon failure to pay the fine and costs assessed for such
violation, unless such owner shall have been acquitted of such charge, the
court shall order a bond or the impounding of said vehicle as provided in this
section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-14) (Prior Code, § 13-1310)
§ 13-1309 USE OF ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or
operate, or cause to be used or operated, within the corporate city limits of
the city any engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device
designed in the aid of braking or decelerating of any vehicle that results in
excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle on any public
ways, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, easements, and rights-of-
way, established for vehicle operation, except when necessary for the
protection of persons and/or property which cannot be avoided by application of
an alternative braking system.
      (2)   Noise caused by the application of engine compression brakes which
is effectively muffled, or if the application is necessary for the health,
safety, and welfare of the city, is exempt from the provisions of this section.
Noise created by emergency equipment for emergency purposes is also exempt.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned not more than ten days, or both; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than
20 days, or both; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 13-1311)
ARTICLE 14: REGISTRATION, LICENSE, PERMITS
Section
   
13-1400   Registration, certificate of title required
   
13-1401   Registration card
   
13-1402   Display of registration plates
   
13-1403   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
13-1404   Improper use of registration card, plate, or permit
   
13-1405   Driver or motorcycle license required
   
13-1406   Persons exempt from license
   
13-1407   License to be carried and exhibited on demand
   
13-1408   Certain acts prohibited
   
13-1409   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
13-1410   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
 
   
13-1411   Penalty
§ 13-1400 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, and no owner shall knowingly permit to
be driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to
be registered under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for, or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided, that in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided, further, that he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-1)
   (B)   Whenever any person after making application for or obtaining the
registration of a vehicle or a certificate of title shall move from the address
named in the application or shown upon a registration card or certificate of
title, or is assigned a new address by the United States postal service or
other legally constituted authority, or name changed by marriage or otherwise,
the person shall, within ten days thereafter, notify the Division in writing of
the old and new addresses.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-18)
(Prior Code, § 13-1400)
§ 13-1401 REGISTRATION CARD.
   Every registration card shall, at all times, be carried in the vehicle to
which it refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such
vehicle who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer, or any
officer or employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles. Carrying and displaying
an electronic or mobile registration card issued by the Division satisfies the
provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-13) (Prior Code, § 13-1401)
§ 13-1402 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof, except that on truck-tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall, at all times, be securely fastened in
a horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent
the plate from swinging, and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the
ground, measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be
clearly visible, and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a
condition to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration, as defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-10-
1, may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-15) (Prior Code, § 13-1402)
§ 13-1403 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked, upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered, unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon, or is in
the possession of the operator when and as required by this traffic code, a
valid registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year, except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Ch. 17A.
   (B)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed, or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department, whichever is earlier; provided, that no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of this
municipality until the owner has notified, in writing, the State Police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-2) (Prior Code, § 13-1403)
§ 13-1404 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE, OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate, or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates, or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-3) (Prior Code, § 13-1404)
§ 13-1405 DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in the State Code, when the use of such subdivision
street is generally used by the public, unless the person has a valid driver’s
license under the provisions of the State Code for the type or class of vehicle
being driven.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1)
   (B)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the
State Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in the State
Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be required to obtain
any other license to exercise such privilege by any county, municipality, or
local board or body having authority to adopt local police regulations.
   (C)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in the State Code, when the use of such subdivision
street is generally used by the public, unless the person has a valid
motorcycle license or a valid license which has been endorsed under W. Va. Code
§ 17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation, or has a valid motorcycle instruction
permit.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1)
   (D)   Whenever any person, after applying for or receiving a driver’s
license, moves from the address named in the application or in the license
issued to the person, or when the name of a licensee is changed by marriage or
otherwise, the person shall, within 20 days thereafter, notify the Division, in
writing, of the old and new addresses, or of the former and new names, and of
the number of any license then held by the person on the forms prescribed by
the Division.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-13)
(Prior Code, § 13-1405)
§ 13-1406 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
13-1405.
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has, in his or
her immediate possession, a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country, unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of this
state, may operate a motor vehicle in this state only as a non-commercial
driver for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year.
   (C)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age who has, in the
person’s immediate possession, a valid driver’s license issued to the person in
the person’s home state or country, and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains, or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession, or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (B) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as a non-commercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place or places of business, or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession, or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade,
profession, or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a
resident of the state over the age of 18 years of age, the resident would not
be required under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17 to obtain a Class A, B,
C, or D driver’s license. However, this division (C) shall not exempt any
person who is required to obtain a state driver’s license in accordance with
the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1a.
   (D)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has, in his or
her immediate possession, a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country, and which meets the requirements of
the Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of Pub. Law 99-570,
and unless the Commissioner determines the person’s home state or country does
not extend the same privilege to a resident of this state, may operate a motor
vehicle in this state either as a commercial driver subject to the age limits
applicable to commercial driver in this state, or as a non-commercial driver
subject to the limitations imposed on non-resident drivers in divisions (B) and
(C) above.
   (E)   (1)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in
an accredited school, college, or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has, in his or her immediate possession, a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (B) and (C) above, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as non-commercial driver.
      (2)   Provided, that the state of which the person is a resident shall
extend the same privileges to residents of this state. This exemption shall be
canceled immediately when the student is graduated from school, college, or
university, or is expelled or ceases to be a student.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-2) (Prior Code, § 13-1406)
§ 13-1407 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED ON DEMAND.
   (A)   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle, and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, Municipal Judge, Circuit Court
Judge, peace officer, police officer, or an employee of the Division of Motor
Vehicles. Provided, that no person charged with violating this section shall be
convicted if such person produces, in court or at the office of the arresting
officer, a driver’s license issued to such person and valid at the time of such
person’s arrest.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than, $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-9) (Prior Code, § 13-1407)
§ 13-1408 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, or non-operator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or non-
operator’s identification, to any other person, or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, or non-operator’s identification, not issued to him or her;
   (D)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, or non-operator’s identification, or knowingly
make a false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact, or otherwise
commit a fraud in any such application;
   (E)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license,
or non-operator’s identification, issued to him or her; or
   (F)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
traffic code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-1) (Prior Code, § 13-1408)
§ 13-1409 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of
this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been
lawfully suspended or revoked.
   (A)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or highway
of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully suspended or revoked by the state or any other jurisdiction is, for
the first offense, guilty of a violation of this section and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second
offense, the person is guilty of a violation of this section and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in a county or regional jail for a period
of ten days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500; for the third or any subsequent offense, the
person is guilty of a violation of this section and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in a county or regional jail for a term not to exceed 30 days
and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than
$150 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or highway
of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully revoked, or driving under the influence of alcohol, controlled
substances, or other drugs, or for driving while having an alcoholic
concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008% or more by weight, or for refusing
to take a secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content is, for the first
offense, guilty of a violation of this section and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in a county or regional jail for a term not to exceed ten
days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, the person is guilty of a
violation of this section and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a
county or regional jail for a term not to exceed 20 days and, in addition to
the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than
$750; for the third or any subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
violation of this section and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a
county or regional jail for a term not to exceed 30 days and, in addition to
the mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than $750 nor more than
$1,000.
   (C)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or highway
of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully suspended for driving while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol
concentration in his or her blood of 0.0002% or more by weight, but less than
0.0008% by weight, is guilty of a violation of this section and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in a county or regional jail for 24 hours
or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or both; for the second
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in jail for a period of not less than thirty days nor more
than six months [JD1] and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500;
for the third or any subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in a state correctional facility
for not less than one year nor more than three years and, in addition to the
mandatory prison sentence, shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than
$5,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3) (Prior Code, § 13-1409)
§ 13-1410 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her, or under his or her control, to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-4) (Prior Code, § 13-1410)
§ 13-1411 PENALTY.
   (A)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$500; for a second or subsequent violation of the same provision, such person
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (B)   Driving under suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3(b) or (d), or
divisions (B)(2) or (B)(3) below, whoever drives a motor vehicle on any street
or highway of this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do
has been lawfully suspended or revoked shall, for the first offense, be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, such person
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the third or any
subsequent offense, such person shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days
and, in addition to such mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than
$150 nor more than $500. A record of the conviction of any person under this
section upon a charge of driving a vehicle while the license of such person was
suspended lawfully shall be sent to the State Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or other drugs, or any
combination thereof, or for driving while having an alcoholic concentration in
his or her blood of 0.0008% or more by weight, or for refusing to take a
secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, for the first offense shall
be imprisoned 30 days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, shall be
imprisoned 30 days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.0002% or more by weight, but less than 0.0008% by weight, shall be
imprisoned for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500,
or both.
      (4)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code Art. 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to any period
of incarceration required by this section.
   (C)   Additional penalties. Whoever violates §§
13-1401,
13-1402,
13-1404,
13-1408, and/or
13-1410 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(Prior Code, § 13-1411)
ARTICLE 15: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
   
13-1500   Definitions
   
13-1501   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
13-1502   Employer responsibilities
   
13-1503   Commercial driver’s license required
   
13-1504   Exemptions
   
13-1505   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
 
   
13-1506   Penalty
§ 13-1500 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol, and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port, or stout, and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or the substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol,
or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof
from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5 % of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; and
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W. Va. Code Art. 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17E-1-9(d).
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more, inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport 16 or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials.
   CONVICTION. An un-vacated adjudication of guilt; a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative tribunal or proceeding; an un-
vacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s
appearance in court; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court
or the payment of a fine or court cost; or violation of a condition of release
without bail regardless of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended, or
probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following three actions:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a driver’s license
by the state or jurisdiction of issuance.
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control other than parking or
vehicle weight, except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations.
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. part 391 (2004).
   DRIVE. To drive, operate, or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in
any place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic. For
purposes of §
13-1505, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle
anywhere in this municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE. Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including full-time,
regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent, or occasional drivers; leased
drivers; and independent, owner-operator contractors (while in the course of
operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly employed by or
under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the United States, a state, or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. Includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to
the farm owner or entity operating the farm, and used exclusively in the
transportation of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock, poultry,
and dairy products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or
produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses, creameries, railway
shipping points, and cold storage plants, and in the transportation of
agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards
to be used thereon.
   FARMER. Includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or person in control of
the premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits, and
who is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, and who is at least 18 years of age with two years of
licensed driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement officer, an
authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian, Mexican, county,
or local jurisdiction, including any special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72, 392.5, 395.13, 396.9 or
compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-service criteria that an
imminent hazard exists.
   VIOLATION OF AN OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out-of-service; or
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out-of-service and before the required repairs are made.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-3) (Prior Code, § 13-1500)
§ 13-1501 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver’s license at one time, except during the ten-day period beginning on the
date the person is issued a driver’s license.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4) (Prior Code, § 13-1501)
§ 13-1502 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each employer must require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W. Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (B)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit, require, or authorize a
driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period:
      (1)   In which the driver has a driver’s license suspended, revoked, or
canceled by a state; has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle
in a state; or has been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   In which the driver has more than one driver’s license at one time;
      (3)   During any period in which the driver, or the commercial motor
vehicle he or she is driving or the motor carrier operation, is subject to an
out-of-service order;
      (4)   In violation of federal, state, or local law or regulation
pertaining to railroad highway grade crossings; or
      (5)   During any period the driver is in violation of any provision of 49
C.F.R. part 382 related to controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-6) (Prior Code, § 13-1502)
§ 13-1503 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle he, she, or they are driving.
   (B)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while his, her, or
their driving privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (C)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle shall have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-7) (Prior Code, § 13-1503)
§ 13-1504 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this article only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, or farm supplies to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (B)   Military personnel. Active duty military personnel operating vehicles
being used for military purposes are exempted from the provisions of this
article in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R. § 383.3(c) (2006).
   (C)   Firefighting and rescue equipment. Operators of vehicles authorized to
hold an authorized emergency vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only
are exempt from the provisions of this article while the authorized emergency
vehicle permit is in force. Vehicles in this class include, but are not limited
to, firefighters and rescue equipment:
      (1)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal fire
departments;
      (2)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal civil defense
organizations;
      (3)   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of business
that requires firefighter equipment to protect the safety of their plants and
its employees; and
      (4)   Owned and operated by volunteer fire departments.
   (D)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment. Operators of
equipment which, by its design, appearance, and function, is not intended for
use on a public road, including, without limitation, motor scrapers, backhoes,
motor graders, compactors, excavators, tractors, trenches, and bulldozers, are
exempt from the provisions of this article; provided, that the exemption
recognized by this division (D) shall not be construed to permit the operation
of such equipment on any public road except such operation as may be required
for a crossing of such road; provided, however, that no such equipment may be
operated on a public road for a distance exceeding 500 feet from the place
where such equipment entered upon the public road.
   (E)   Exempt vehicles. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of
1999, 49 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq., exempts vehicles used exclusively for personal
use, such as recreation vehicles and rental trucks used only to transport the
driver’s personal or household property.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-8) (Prior Code, § 13-1504)
§ 13-1505 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the State Code or these
codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control
of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in his or
her blood, breath, or urine of 0.0004% or more by weight, shall be imprisoned
for not less than 24 hours nor more than 30 days, and shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500. A person convicted of a second or any subsequent
offense under the provisions of this section shall be imprisoned for a period
of 30 days, and the court may, in its discretion, impose a fine of not less
than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (B)   A person who violates the provisions of division (A) above shall be
treated in the same manner set forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-19-3 as if he or she
had been arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or of any
controlled substance.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the State Code or these
codified ordinances, a person who drives, operates, or is in physical control
of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such person’s
system, or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine such
person’s blood alcohol content as provided by W. Va. Code § 17E-1-15 shall be
placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14) (Prior Code, § 13-1505)
§ 13-1506 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is provided in this article, whoever violates any
provision of this article shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, except that for the
second violation of §
13-1503, the offender shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000,
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third or any subsequent
conviction for violation of §
13-1503, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,500,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-25) (Prior Code, § 13-1506)
ARTICLE 16: MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
13-1600   Definitions
   
13-1601   Operation and use of all-terrain and utility vehicles
   
13-1602   Acts prohibited by operator; penalties for violations
   
13-1603   Liability
   
13-1604   Exceptions
   
13-1605   Riding
   
13-1606   Noise
   
13-1607   Packs prohibited
   
13-1608   Criminal penalties
§ 13-1600 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle, designed for off-highway use and designed to
travel on not less than three low-pressure tires, having a seat or saddle
designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control,
and intended by the manufacturer to be used by a single operator or by an
operator and no more than one passenger.
      (2)   As used in this article, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES shall mean all-
terrain vehicles and UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-9)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
this traffic code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion, and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or
rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
   UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with four or more low-pressure
tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating for each
occupant and a steering wheel for control.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-9)
(Prior Code, § 13-1600)
§ 13-1601 OPERATION AND USE OF ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate or drive an ATV on any public street within the
corporate boundaries of the city or on any public property owned or operated by
the city, or any of its boards or commissions, without having in his or her
possession:
   (A)   A valid operator’s or chauffeur’s, or commercial driver’s, license
issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17B, as amended, or similar
provisions of the laws of the state of domicile of the operator; and
   (B)   Proof of financial responsibility to drive and operate the all-terrain
vehicle in compliance with W. Va. Code Ch. 17D, as amended, or equivalent
provisions of the laws owner the state of domicile of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 13-1601)
§ 13-1602 ACTS PROHIBITED BY OPERATOR; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Nothing in this article contained shall relieve the driver or operator of
any all-terrain vehicle from full compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code
Ch. 17F, as amended.
(W. Va. Code Ch. 17F) (Prior Code, § 13-1602)
§ 13-1603 LIABILITY.
   Nothing contained within this article is intended to create, nor shall be
construed as to create or form the basis for, any civil or administrative
liability whatsoever on the part of the city, or any of its officers,
employees, or agents, for any injury or damage resulting to any person
whomsoever as a consequence of any action or inaction on the part of the city,
relating in any manner to the enforcement or non-enforcement of this article by
city officers, officials, employees, or agents.
(Prior Code, § 13-1603)
§ 13-1604 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be an
offense for any person to lawfully ride, operate, or otherwise use an all-
terrain vehicle upon any private property located within the corporate limits
of the city with the express permission of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 13-1604)
§ 13-1605 RIDING.
   Any person or persons operating a motorcycle, motor-driven vehicles, or all-
terrain vehicles shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto. Operators shall not carry any other person, nor shall any other person
ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to carry more than one
person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat
if designed for two persons, or upon another vehicle designed seat and firmly
attached to the rear or side of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13-1605)
§ 13-1606 NOISE.
   Every motorcycle, motor-driven vehicles, or all-terrain vehicles shall be
operated as quietly as possible at all times within the city, and when so
operated, shall be equipped with a muffler designed with baffles, resonator
cylinder, and other factory-made noise reducers. The muffler shall not be
altered, changed, or designed in any manner which would tend to increase the
noise-producing effects above that of the manufacturer’s design in the original
equipment. A driver, operator, or controller of any motorcycle shall not use
the cutout of a motor while operating the same within the city, or operate a
motor vehicle without a proper muffler functioning in good order, or race the
motor of any vehicle, above described so as to cause a backfire or other loud
noise. The provisions of this section shall apply to the operator or operators,
or controllers, of any motor vehicle whether on a street or within private
property, and in addition to other prescribed penalties, the operators of such
motor vehicle in violation of this section shall be hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-1606)
§ 13-1607 PACKS PROHIBITED.
   Any driver, drivers, operators, or controllers of any vehicle, as described
in §
13-1600, is hereby prohibited from banding together with other driver, drivers,
operators, or controllers of such vehicles for the purpose of forming a “pack”
(not more than two abreast and with at least 25 feet between following) and
operating such vehicles upon the streets and alleys of the city whereby the
pack or number of such two or four wheeled motor driven vehicles shall cause an
excessive amount of noise or create a menace or hazard to the safe flow of
traffic within the city, and if the pack or grouping of the vehicles shall
occur, they shall be deemed to be in violation of this section. This section
shall not apply to parades or activities approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-1607)
§ 13-1608 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this article or who owns or
has control over an all-terrain vehicle and knowingly permits it to be used in
violation of the provisions of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
   (B)   Any parent, legal guardian, or person who has actual responsibility
for a child under 18 years of age who knows, or should have known, the child is
operating or is a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle without a helmet, as
required by the provisions of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, upon conviction, be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   For a first offense, a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$100, or not more than ten hours of community service, or both;
      (2)   For a second offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$200, or not more than 20 hours of community service, or both;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than $200 nor
more than $500, or not more than 100 hours of community service, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-8)
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section of the city
municipal code and not covered in divisions (A) or (B) above shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not to exceed $250, or not more than 100 hours of
community service, or both.
(Prior Code, § 13-1608)
ARTICLES 17: FUNERALS
Section
   
13-1700   Funeral processions
§ 13-1700 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. Both terms have the same
meaning as set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-6-4.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or non-law
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery, or other
location at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held,
including a funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (B)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic-control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (B)(3) below, shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a funeral
escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic-control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic-control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic-control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         (b)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         (c)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (C)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law, or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (D)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury, or property
damage suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession
may not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment, or their
employees or agents, unless the death, personal injury, or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment, or their employees or agents.
   (F)   Equipment. All non-law enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral
lead vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing
lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens. Flashing amber or purple
lights may be used when such vehicles are used in a funeral procession.
(W. Va. Code Art. 17C-23) (Prior Code, § 13-1700)
CHAPTER 14: RESERVED
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 15: MUNICIPAL COURT
   Article
      
0.   MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED; PRESIDING JUDGE
      
1.   MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK
      
2.   MUNICIPAL COURT DOCKET AND RECORDS
      
3.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
4.   BONDS
      
5.   FINES, COURT COST, SENTENCING
      
6.   JURIES
ARTICLE 0: MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED; PRESIDING JUDGE
Section
   
15-1   Municipal Court created
   
15-2   Municipal Judge appointed
   
15-3   Oath/bond
   
15-4   Judge’s compensation
   
15-5   Judge’s absence
   
15-6   Judge’s powers and duties of court; Judge generally
   
15-7   Judge’s qualification
§ 15-1 MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Municipal Court for the city, which shall be
presided over by the Municipal Court Judge.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)
§ 15-2 MUNICIPAL JUDGE APPOINTED.
   There shall be a Municipal Judge who shall be nominated by the Mayor and
appointed by the Council by resolution, who shall hold his or her office at the
pleasure of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
§ 15-3 OATH/BOND.
   The person so appointed as Municipal Judge shall qualify by taking the oath
of office as such, and shall give bond in an amount fixed by Council, under
which bond he or she shall be responsible for all funds coming into his or her
hands by venture of such appointment.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
§ 15-4 JUDGE’S COMPENSATION.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by
Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)
§ 15-5 JUDGE’S ABSENCE.
   In the event of the temporary absence of the Municipal Judge from his or her
duties:
   (A)   The City Recorder may act as Municipal Judge in his or her absence, as
provided by state law; or
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint a person similarly qualified to serve as
Municipal Judge during such absence without the necessity of Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
§ 15-6 JUDGE’S POWERS AND DUTIES OF COURT; JUDGE GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Judge shall be a conservator of the peace within
the city and, insofar as any ordinance of the city is concerned, shall have and
exercise all such powers and duties in criminal cases as a magistrate may
lawfully exercise under the statutes of the state; and he or she shall also be
ex officio, a magistrate within the city, and shall within the city have and
exercise all powers relating to crime and perform all duties fixed by law upon
a magistrate; except, he or she shall have no jurisdiction over civil cases.
The Municipal Court Judge shall have further powers and perform such duties as
may be, from time to time, prescribed or conferred by any law of the state or
by ordinance of the city, as well as the judicial powers conferred upon the
Mayor, insofar as such provisions are not in conflict with the state
Constitution or any state statute which takes precedence.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge possesses the authority to issue search warrants,
warrants of arrest, summonses, subpoenas, and other forms of process necessary
to secure the peace and good order of the community. Any search warrant,
warrant of arrest, or other process issued by him or her in connection with the
violation of a municipal ordinance may be directed to the Chief of Police or
any member of the Police Department, and the same may be executed at any place
within the county.
   (C)   The Municipal Judge shall have such criminal and civil jurisdictions
as is provided by law. He or she shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine
any alleged violations of city ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions,
rules, and regulations, and to convict and sentence persons therefor. His or
her jurisdiction shall extend only to the corporate boundaries and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the municipality, and those allowed by state
law or ordinance.
   (D)   The Municipal Judge shall have vested in him or her the power to issue
executions for all fines, penalties, and costs imposed by him or her through
the violation of city ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions, rules, and
regulations. At no time, however, may he or she sentence anyone to a jail term
exceeding 30 days or impose a monetary penalty in excess of that allowed by
state law or city ordinance.
   (E)   In addition to the powers and duties prescribed for the Police Judge
in the City Charter, the Municipal Judge shall have the jurisdiction and
powers, and shall perform the duties prescribed in W. Va. Code § 8-10-1 insofar
as such § 8-10-1 relates to mayors in their judicial capacity; and the
provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 50 (relating to magistrates) and of W. Va. Code
Ch. 62 (relating to criminal procedure), insofar as such provisions may be made
applicable to the Municipal Court and the Municipal Judge of this city, are
hereby adopted and made applicable to the Municipal Court and to the Municipal
Judge, respectively, as to subject matter not otherwise covered in the City
Charter, this code, or other ordinance.
   (F)   He or she shall tax all costs in the Municipal Court and make out all
executions for fines, penalties, and costs imposed by him or her, make out and
issue all processes of the court and sign them as Judge, and administer oaths.
(Prior Code, § 15-6)
§ 15-7 JUDGE’S QUALIFICATION.
   Once appointed, the Municipal Judge shall, at minimum, attend and complete
the next available course of instruction in rudimentary principals of law and
attend all annual training as required by state law, unless he or she has been
admitted to practice law in this state, as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 15-7)
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK
Section
   
15-100   Municipal Court Clerk generally
   
15-101   Clerk of Municipal Court
§ 15-100 MUNICIPAL COURT CLERK GENERALLY.
   The Municipal Court Clerk shall be the City Recorder, and/or his or her
designated assistant.
(Prior Code, § 15-100)
§ 15-101 CLERK OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall have authority under the laws of the
state, in the absence of the Municipal Judge, to administer oaths and issue
warrants for arrest, and shall have authority to sign summons, and process all
other papers issuing out of the court not required by law to be signed by the
Judge, and shall issue all papers and documents required by law or as directed
by the court. The Clerk shall perform such other functions in connection with
the operation of the court as may be required by law or by order of the Judge.
(Prior Code, § 15-101)
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL COURT DOCKET AND RECORDS
Section
   
15-200   Docket
   
15-201   Shall not remit
   
15-202   Fines and costs to city
   
15-203   Docket report
   
15-204   Court records
§ 15-200 DOCKET.
   There shall be a docket of the Municipal Court, and it shall be the duty of
the Municipal Court Clerk or Judge to docket fully thereon all cases in the
court, and show therein the docket number, the defendant’s name, description of
alleged offenses, citation number, warrant, or summons number, all fees, fines,
and costs, adjudges and collected, and whether incarcerated.
(Prior Code, § 15-200)
§ 15-201 SHALL NOT REMIT.
   Once recorded, it shall be beyond the power of the Municipal Court Clerk or
Judge, or a city official, to remit the whole or any part of said fines and
costs unless it is necessary to correct an error.
(Prior Code, § 15-201)
§ 15-202 FINES AND COSTS TO CITY.
   Once recorded in the docket, all fines and costs shall be turned over to the
city daily.
(Prior Code, § 15-202)
§ 15-203 DOCKET REPORT.
   The Municipal Court Judge shall, at least once a month, cause a written
report be made to the governing body, detailing the collection of all fines and
costs imposed by his or her court for the previous month.
(Prior Code, § 15-203)
§ 15-204 COURT RECORDS.
   All court records shall be retained as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-204)
ARTICLE 3: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
15-300   Sessions of court
   
15-301   Arrest warrants
   
15-302   Issuance of summons
   
15-303   Issuance of subpoenas
   
15-304   Police officer to attend sessions of court
   
15-305   Default judgment in cases of ordinance violations
   
15-306   Failure to appear for summons, warrant, or citation
   
15-307   Trials conducted
   
15-308   Disposition of cases
   
15-309   Appeals
   
15-310   Contempt
   
15-311   Jail sentence
   
15-312   Jury trial
   
15-313   City Prosecutor
   
15-314   Separation of witnesses; exclusion of minors from courtroom
   
15-315   Trial procedure; granting of new trials
   
15-316   Intimidation of judicial officers, jurors, and witnesses; obstructing
administration of justice
   
15-317   False swearing and subornation of false swearing
   
15-318   Disturbance of court proceedings
§ 15-300 SESSIONS OF COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall meet at times set by the Municipal Court Judge,
and at least monthly if necessary.
(Prior Code, § 15-300)
§ 15-301 ARREST WARRANTS.
   The Municipal Judge is invested with the authority to issue arrest warrants
for violations of this code.
(Prior Code, § 15-301)
§ 15-302 ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS.
   The Municipal Judge shall have, at his or her discretion, the choice of
either issuing an arrest warrant or a summons whenever an alleged violation of
the city ordinances occurs. The summons will order the defendant to appear
before the Municipal Court at a specified time in order to answer the charges
against himself or herself. The summons shall contain a brief description of
the offense charged against him or her, but need not be a verbatim account of
the supposed violated ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15-302)
§ 15-303 ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS.
   The Municipal Judge shall have invested in his or her the authority to
subpoena witnesses whose testimony is relevant to any judicial proceeding. It
shall be unlawful for any citizen to ignore such subpoena and shall be a
contempt of court.
(Prior Code, § 15-303)
§ 15-304 POLICE OFFICER TO ATTEND SESSIONS OF COURT.
   The Chief of Police, or a police officer designated by him or her, shall
attend all sessions of the Municipal Court. He or she shall preserve order in
the courtroom and its immediate vicinity, and obey all orders of the Municipal
Judge.
(Prior Code, § 15-304)
§ 15-305 DEFAULT JUDGMENT IN CASES OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a defendant, in any case prosecuted by the city, having been duly
summoned fails to appear at the time the case is set for trial, the Municipal
Judge shall proceed to hear and examine the testimony offered on the part of
the city, and shall, if he or she finds the defendant guilty, render judgment
by default against the defendant for such amount under the ordinance violated
as he or she may deem justice requires, and it shall be binding, subject to the
defendant’s right of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 15-305)
§ 15-306 FAILURE TO APPEAR FOR SUMMONS, WARRANT, OR CITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, duly summoned, to fail to appear
in response to a notice given for his or her appearance to Municipal Court.
   (B)   Failure for any person to answer a violation of any of the provisions
of the Municipal Ordinance shall be guilty of an offense against this section
regardless of the disposition of the original violation he or she was so
summoned to or gave bond to appear and answer and he or she may be subject to a
fine up to $500, and such punishment may be addition to the punishment given
for such original violation.
      (1)   If, having been notified at the time of issuance of a citation by
any officer of the municipal Police Department a defendant fails to appear with
a given time period, he or she shall be guilty of failure to appeal for court
and subject to a fine of up to $250.
      (2)   If a defendant fails to respond or appear for a summons or warrant
issued by the municipal court judge, he or she shall be guilty of failure to
appear for court and subject to a fine of up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 15-306)
§ 15-307 TRIALS CONDUCTED.
   Trials may be conducted agreeably to law and established usage. New trials
may be granted.
(Prior Code, § 15-307)
§ 15-308 DISPOSITION OF CASES.
   (A)   Every individual charged with a violation of a municipal ordinance
shall have the right to an immediate trial and disposition of his or her case
in conformity to due process requirements.
   (B)   However, this provision does not apply if the Municipal Court is not
is session, if the Municipal Judge is unavailable or if the defendant is not in
clear possession of his or her faculties.
(Prior Code, § 15-308)
§ 15-309 APPEALS.
   (A)   It shall be the right of any defendant to appeal any verdict of the
Municipal Court to the next term of the Circuit Court.
   (B)   Such an appeal must occur within 20 days following the judgment of the
Municipal Court. All appeals must be accompanied with the posting of an appeal
bond as set forth in §
15-405.
(Prior Code, § 15-309)
§ 15-310 CONTEMPT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to disrupt or hinder the
proceedings of the Municipal Court. When punishment is authorized, the
Municipal Judge may issue attachments for contempt and punish summarily, but
not limited to, the following cases:
      (1)   Misbehavior in the presence of his or her court, or so near thereto
as to obstruct the administration of justice;
      (2)   Violence, or threats of violence, to the Municipal Judge or any
officer, witness, or party going thereto, attending or returning from court,
for or in respect of any act or proceeding had or to be had in such court;
      (3)   Misbehavior of any officer in his or her official capacity, in
respect to any act or judicial proceeding had or pending before the Municipal
Judge, or any process, order, or notice therein;
      (4)   Disobedience or resistance of an officer, witness, party, or other
person to any lawful process, judgment, order, or notice of the Municipal
Judge;
      (5)   The disobedience or resistance to an order of the court; and/or
      (6)   The utterance of indecorous and profane language.
   (B)   An order to arrest may be issued by the Municipal Judge on whom the
person charged with the contempt may be taken and brought before him or her, or
such person may be taken in custody by any officer or any person upon the oral
order of the Municipal Judge and held to answer for the contempt. An
opportunity must be given the person charged to be heard in defense or
explanation of his or her conduct, and the Municipal Judge may thereupon
discharge him or her, or adjudge him or her guilty of the contempt and punish
him or her therefor by fine or imprisonment, or both. The fine shall not exceed
$100, nor the imprisonment ten days. The Municipal Judge shall not impose a
fine for contempt unless the defendant be present in court, or shall have been
served with a rule of the court to show cause, on some certain day, and shall
have failed to appear and show cause.
   (C)   The conviction for contempt, specifying the particular circumstances
of the offense and judgment thereon, must be entered by the Municipal Judge in
his or her docket. A warrant of commitment for the term of imprisonment
adjudged may be issued by the Municipal Judge commanding an officer to take the
offender to jail, and the keeper thereof to imprison him or her therein for
such term. The judgment may include, in addition to fines, all costs in the
case, including costs of arresting and keeping in prison the offender.
(Prior Code, § 15-310)
§ 15-311 JAIL SENTENCE.
   The Municipal Court Judge, in his or her discretion, may signify in advance
of trial that under no condition will a jail sentence be imposed, and the
defendant shall not be entitled to a trial by jury, and no such time may be
imposed for that offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-311)
§ 15-312 JURY TRIAL.
   (A)   Any defendant, in jeopardy of incarceration in any misdemeanor
proceeding before the Municipal Court, shall be entitled to a trial by jury
unless such defendant shall affirmatively waive, in writing, such right;
provided, however, the Municipal Court Judge, in his or her discretion, may
signify in advance of trial that under no condition will a jail sentence be
imposed, and the foregoing shall not be required and the defendant shall not be
entitled to a trial by jury.
   (B)   The Municipal Court Judge shall conduct a trial by jury consistent
with the procedures set forth in the “Rules of Criminal Procedure for West
Virginia Magistrate Courts and Municipal Court Hearings.”
(Prior Code, § 15-312)
§ 15-313 CITY PROSECUTOR.
   (A)   When, in the opinion of the Mayor of the city, it is necessary or
advisable to do so, the Mayor may nominate a City Prosecutor, subject to the
approval of the Council, who shall hold office during the will and pleasure of
the Council. The salary of such Prosecutor shall be fixed by the Council. The
City Prosecutor shall have the same qualifications as those set forth as for
the City Solicitor.
   (B)   His or her duties shall be to represent the city in all criminal
matters originating in the Municipal Court for the violation of any city
ordinance, and on appeal from said court to any other court from proceedings so
originating. He or she also shall, upon request, advise members of the Police
Department and other officials of the city on any criminal matters arising out
of the violation of any city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15-313)
§ 15-314 SEPARATION OF WITNESSES; EXCLUSION OF MINORS FROM COURTROOM.
   The Municipal Judge is authorized to examine witnesses separate and apart
from each other. He or she may also exclude all minors from the courtroom who
may be present as mere auditors.
(Prior Code, § 15-314)
§ 15-315 TRIAL PROCEDURE; GRANTING OF NEW TRIALS.
   Trials in the Municipal Court shall be conducted agreeably to law and
established usage. New trials may be granted.
(Prior Code, § 15-315)
§ 15-316 INTIMIDATION OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS, JURORS, AND WITNESSES; OBSTRUCTING
ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.
   If any person, by threats, force, or otherwise intimidate or impede, or
attempt to intimidate or impede, the Municipal Judge, the Municipal Court Clerk
or Deputy Clerk, or any other officer of the Municipal Court, or any juror or
witness in the Municipal Court in the discharge of his or her duties as such,
or by any means impede or obstruct, or attempt to impede or obstruct, the
administration of justice in the Municipal Court, they shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-316)
§ 15-317 FALSE SWEARING AND SUBORNATION OF FALSE SWEARING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly swear falsely under oath or
affirmation lawfully administered in any trial or proceeding held in the
Municipal Court, or before the Municipal Judge, concerning any matter or thing,
material or not material, or to procure another person to do so.
(Prior Code, § 15-317)
§ 15-318 DISTURBANCE OF COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance in the
court or of any trial before the municipal court by making loud or unusual
noises, by using indecorous, profane, or blasphemous language, or by any
distracting conduct whatsoever.
   (B)   Any person so doing may be removed from court by order of the judge
and fined no less than $50 or no more than $500.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2015)
ARTICLE 4: BONDS
Section
   
15-400   Bail bonds and cash deposits in lieu thereof
   
15-401   Requisites and disposition of cash deposits posted in lieu of bail
bond
   
15-402   Unauthorized acceptance or approval of cash bond
   
15-403   Persons prohibited to be surety on bail bonds
   
15-404   Bond for witness
   
15-405   Appeal and appeal bonds
§ 15-400 BAIL BONDS AND CASH DEPOSITS IN LIEU THEREOF.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise in any case by the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 62-1C, whenever any person is arrested for any violation of an
ordinance of the city or for any offense of which the Municipal Judge has
jurisdiction, it shall be lawful for the Municipal Judge, Recorder, Municipal
Court Clerk, Mayor, Chief of Police, or person in charge of police headquarters
to admit such person to bail upon the execution of a bond to the city in such
an amount as in the discretion of the officer will secure the prisoner’s
presence, conditioned that the accused will appear upon a day named, before the
Municipal Judge of the city, to await trial; and every such bond taken shall be
filed as soon as practicable with the Municipal Court Clerk by the officer
approving and taking such bond; and the Municipal Judge, Recorder, Municipal
Court Clerk, Mayor, Chief of Police, or person in charge of police headquarters
shall each have the power to approve any bond taken under the provisions of
this section, precedence being given to the ranking officer present at police
headquarters when such bond is presented.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be accepted as surety upon any penal bond unless
he or she shall acknowledge the bond before some official duly authorized by
this code or by state law to administer an oath, and shall make oath that he or
she is the owner in fee of real estate situate in the city and worth the amount
of the bond over and above his or her debts and liabilities; but the officers
hereinbefore named in this section are hereby authorized and empowered to
accept a deposit in cash of an amount which, in the judgment of the officer
accepting the deposit, will be sufficient to cause the prisoner’s appearance
upon the day required of him or her before the Municipal Judge to await trial
upon the charge against him or her.
      (2)   The amount of such deposit shall not be less than a sum sufficient
in the judgment of the officer accepting the same to satisfy any reasonable
fine and costs which may be imposed by the Municipal Judge.
   (C)   In the event any person so released upon bond or such deposit shall
fail to appear before the Municipal Judge for trial at the appointed time, or,
having appeared, shall leave the court without awaiting trial, his or her bond
shall be forfeited thereby to the city, and if a cash deposit has been made to
secure his or her release, the sum so deposited shall be delivered to the
Municipal Judge, and by him or her promptly turned into the City Treasury to
the credit of the General Fund and accounted for by him or her in the same
manner that fines collected by him or her are accounted for; and in the event
of the forfeiture of a penal bond, the Treasurer shall forthwith take the steps
necessary at law for the collection thereof. However, this provision does not
apply if an individual is intoxicated or in need of protective custody.
(Prior Code, § 15-400)
§ 15-401 REQUISITES AND DISPOSITION OF CASH DEPOSITS POSTED IN LIEU OF BAIL
BOND.
   (A)   No cash bond shall be accepted by any officer authorized to accept
such bond unless the prisoner and the officer authorized to accept it are
present at police headquarters.
   (B)   The money deposited as security for any person’s appearance shall be
deposited at police headquarters, to be by him or her safely kept until the
next regular business day, when it shall be turned over by the person who
received it to the Judge or Clerk of the Municipal Court, and by the Judge or
Clerk disposed of as required by the bond and this section and § 15-400.
(Prior Code, § 15-401)
§ 15-402 UNAUTHORIZED ACCEPTANCE OR APPROVAL OF CASH BOND.
   If any officer shall accept or approve any cash bond at any place or in any
other manner than is herein provided for and authorized, such unauthorized
acceptance or approval shall constitute good cause for his or her suspension or
removal, or the reprimand or fining of such officer after a hearing on the
charge by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15-402)
§ 15-403 PERSONS PROHIBITED TO BE SURETY ON BAIL BONDS.
   No practicing attorney, officer of the Municipal Court, or member of the
police force shall be accepted as surety on any bond provided for in this code.
(Prior Code, § 15-403)
§ 15-404 BOND FOR WITNESS.
   The court may also require a recognizance or bond of a witness in a case,
with or without surety, but in no event in an amount in excess of $100, for his
or her appearance at such time as the court may fix and to give evidence in the
case, the procedure whereon may be the same as is prescribed for bonds for
persons under arrest.
(Prior Code, § 15-404)
§ 15-405 APPEAL AND APPEAL BONDS.
   From any judgment of imprisonment or for a fine of more than $10 under this
code, or any other ordinance of the city, the person against whom it is
rendered may, within 20 days after the date thereof, appeal to a court of
competent jurisdiction in the county wherein the offense was committed upon
entering into a recognizance with surety deemed sufficient in a penalty double
the amount of the fine and costs with the condition that the party appealing
will appear before such court on the first day of the next term thereof to
answer for the offense against the city with which he or she stands charged,
and not thence depart without leave of such court and will perform and satisfy
any judgment which may be rendered against him or her by the court on appeal.
And in case a fine not exceeding $10 is assessed, the person against whom it is
assessed may object thereto, and insist upon the increase thereof to a certain
sum exceeding $10, and judgment shall be given for such increased sum, and an
appeal allowed, if one is desired, from such judgment.
(Prior Code, § 15-405)
ARTICLE 5: FINES, COURT COST, SENTENCING
Section
   
15-500   Costs and fees
   
15-501   Payment of fines and costs
   
15-502   Payment of fine may be made condition of probation or suspension of
sentence
   
15-503   Court may require defendant to be on good behavior until fine and
costs are paid
   
15-504   Procedure upon default in payment under agreement; confinement in case
of willful default
   
15-505   Community service work may be substituted in lieu of incarceration or
a fine in Municipal Court
   
15-506   Home incarceration for Municipal Court offenders
§ 15-500 COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   Costs and fees in all cases, including violations of city ordinances,
shall be as prescribed by state law for the courts of magistrates, together
with all lawful jail fees, if any, attributable to the defendant.
   (B)   All charges brought before the Municipal Court will reflect, upon
conviction, all applicable costs, fines, fees, administrative costs,
prosecution fees, and incarnation fees due the state and municipality as
authorized by state law, Municipal Charter, or ordinance, and distributed to
the appropriate state or county agency, or general or appropriate fund of the
municipality.
   (C)   Any changes in the court costs mandated to be charged by Circuit,
Magistrate, and Municipal Courts by the legislature of the state are hereby
automatically adopted as they occur.
   (D)   All cases appearing in the Municipal Court of the city shall have an
administrative court cost payable to the city in the amount of $30. This shall
be in addition to and added to fines imposed upon criminal defendants.
   (E)   In the event that the driver’s license of any resident of this state,
or the driver’s privilege of a non-resident of the state to drive a motor
vehicle in this state, has been suspended pursuant to notification from the
Clerk of Municipal Court to the State Division of Motor Vehicles of default in
the payment of fines and/or costs, and such resident or non-resident seeks to
pay those delinquent fines and/or costs in order that a notice of satisfaction
may be given, an additional administrative court cost of $25 shall be added to
the previously due fine and/or costs which shall be paid at the time of payment
of the delinquent fines and/or cost, prior to any notification of satisfaction
being given. In addition, any fees due the Division of Motor Vehicles shall be
collected by the Division.
   (F)   In each criminal case before or in the Municipal Court of a
municipality in which the defendant is convicted, whether by plea or at trial,
under the provisions of a municipal ordinance which has the same elements as an
offense described in W. Va. Code §§ 17C-5-2 or 20-7-18b, there shall be
imposed, in addition to other costs, fines, forfeitures, or penalties as may be
allowed by law, costs in the amount of $55. The Clerk of each Municipal Court,
or other person designated to receive fines and costs, shall, for purposes of
further defraying the cost to the municipality of enforcing the provisions of
the ordinance or ordinances described in this section and related provisions,
deposit these monies in the General Revenue Fund of the municipality.
   (G)   If any jail sentence is imposed, all jail fees shall be added as part
of the fine.
   (H)   The Municipal Judge shall assess costs in the amount of $2.50 for
issuing a sheep warrant, appointment, and swearing appraisers and docketing the
same.
   (I)   In each criminal case which must be tried by the Circuit Court, but in
which the Municipal Judge renders some service, costs in the amount of $10
shall be imposed by Municipal Court and shall be certified to the Clerk of the
Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § 15-500)
§ 15-501 PAYMENT OF FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Municipal Court may accept credit cards in payment of all costs,
fines, forfeitures, or penalties. The Municipal Court may collect a substantial
portion of all costs, fines, forfeitures, or penalties at the time such amount
is imposed by the court so long as the court requires the balance to be paid
within 180 days, and in accordance with a payment plan which specifies:
      (1)   The number of additional payments to be made;
      (2)   The dates on which such payments and amounts shall be made; and
      (3)   Amounts due on such dates.
   (B)   If costs, fines, forfeitures, or penalties imposed by the Municipal
Court for violations are not paid within 180 days, or a person who committed
any such violation defaults on a payment plan as described in division (A)
above, or if a person fails to appear or otherwise respond in court when
charged, the Municipal Court shall notify the Commissioner of the Division of
Motor Vehicles of such failure to pay or failure to appear.
   (C)   The Municipal Court may issue execution or employ any means of
enforcing judgment to collect fines and costs imposed before the court
authorized by law to collect.
(Prior Code, § 15-501)
§ 15-502 PAYMENT OF FINE MAY BE MADE CONDITION OF PROBATION OR SUSPENSION OF
SENTENCE.
   If a defendant is sentenced to pay a fine and payment of the fine, or fine
and costs, is ordered to be made on an installment basis, or on other
conditions under the provisions of this section; and if the defendant is also
placed on probation or imposition of the execution of sentence is suspended,
the court may make payment of the fine a condition of probation or suspension
of sentence.
(Prior Code, § 15-502)
§ 15-503 COURT MAY REQUIRE DEFENDANT TO BE ON GOOD BEHAVIOR UNTIL FINE AND
COSTS ARE PAID.
   If a defendant is permitted to pay a fine, or fine and costs, on an
installment basis, or under such other conditions as the court shall fix under
the provisions of §
15-502, the court may require as a condition that the defendant be of peace and
good behavior until the fine and costs are paid.
(Prior Code, § 15-503)
§ 15-504 PROCEDURE UPON DEFAULT IN PAYMENT UNDER AGREEMENT; CONFINEMENT IN CASE
OF WILLFUL DEFAULT.
   (A)   The Division of Motor Vehicles shall suspend the license of any
resident of this state, or the privilege of a non-resident, to drive a motor
vehicle in this state upon receiving notice from the Municipal Court that such
person has defaulted on payment of costs, fines, forfeitures, or penalties,
which were imposed on the person by the Municipal Court upon conviction, after
180 days following such conviction, or that such person has failed to appear in
court when charged.
   (B)   When any person sentenced to pay a fine defaults in the payment of any
such fine or of any installment of the fine, the court may issue a summons for
such person to appear before the court for a hearing on the question of whether
such person’s failure to pay the fine or any installment was attributable to
intentional refusal to comply with the prior order of the court, or a lack of a
good-faith effort to comply with the order. The court may, after hearing, order
that the person in default be allowed additional time for payment, may reduce
or remit the amount of the fine or the unpaid portion in whole or in part, or
upon a finding that the default was intentional or due to the lack of a good-
faith effort to comply with the prior order of the court, may order such person
confined for such period up to 30 days as the court, in its discretion, shall
determine.
(Prior Code, § 15-504)
§ 15-505 COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK MAY BE SUBSTITUTED IN LIEU OF INCARCERATION OR
A FINE IN MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, the
Municipal Judge may substitute, in lieu of the imposition of a sentence of
incarceration or imposition of a fine, community service work for such
incarceration or fine. Where community service work is ordered as a substitute
for a sentence of incarceration, an eight-hour work day shall extinguish one
day of any sentence of incarceration. Where community service work is ordered
as a substitute for a fine, the prevailing federal minimum wage in effect at
the time of sentencing shall be used to compute the hours of community service
work necessary to extinguish the fine. In the discretion of the court, the
sentence credits may run concurrently or consecutively.
   (B)   If approved by the court, any community service ordered pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be performed for the city.
   (C)   Persons sentenced under the provisions of this section remain under
the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court. The court may withdraw the community
service sentence at any time, with or without notice, and order a person
previously sentenced to community service to serve the term of incarceration or
to pay the fine available to the court upon the person’s conviction; provided,
that any community service work performed before the community service sentence
is withdrawn shall be credited against any term of incarceration or fine
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 15-505)
§ 15-506 HOME INCARCERATION FOR MUNICIPAL COURT OFFENDERS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, when a person
is convicted under a municipal ordinance for which a period of incarceration
may be imposed, the Municipal Court may enter an order for home incarceration
as an alternative sentence to incarceration in a county or regional jail;
provided, that home incarceration shall be available at the expense of the
person convicted, and only if accepted by the County Sheriff’s Department Home
Confinement Office. Any person accepted by the County Sheriff’s Department Home
Confinement Office the home is required to enter into an agreement for payment
of any related fees to the County Sheriff’s Department Home Confinement Office.
(Prior Code, § 15-506)
ARTICLE 6: JURIES
Section
   
15-600   Demand for jury trial
   
15-601   Persons eligible to jury service
   
15-602   Number of jurors
   
15-603   Master jury list
   
15-604   Preparation of jury list for trial
   
15-605   Penalty for failure of jurors to attend
   
15-606   Discharge of jurors; excuse from attendance
   
15-607   When juror not entitled to compensation
   
15-608   Payment of compensation
   
15-609   Trial procedure
   
15-610   Defendant responsible
§ 15-600 DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL.
   Upon timely request by a defendant, the Municipal Court may hold a jury
trial. A demand by the defendant for a jury trial must be made, in writing, not
later than 20 days after the defendant’s initial appearance before the
Municipal Judge; provided, that in the case of an indigent for who counsel is
to be appointed, the 20-day period shall not commence to run until counsel is
appointed. Failure to demand within such time constitutes a waiver of the right
to a trial by jury; however, §
15-312 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 15-600)
§ 15-601 PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO JURY SERVICE.
   (A)   All persons who are at least 18 years of age and who are residents of
the city shall be liable to serve as jurors, except as provided in this
article. Such jurors shall be of good character and free from felony crime
convictions. No juror shall be deemed incompetent because the city is a party
to the matter to be tried and the juror is a resident of such city.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge may, in his or her discretion, exempt or excuse
any person from jury service when it appears that such service would be
improper or work an undue hardship. A prospective juror 70 years of age or
older is not disqualified from serving, but shall be excused from service by
the court upon the juror’s request.
   (C)   Any prospective juror who has, within the preceding two years, been
summoned to serve as a petit juror, grand juror, magistrate juror, or municipal
juror, and has actually attended sessions of a Circuit, Magistrate, or
Municipal Court shall be disqualified to serve on a municipal jury.
(Prior Code, § 15-601)
§ 15-602 NUMBER OF JURORS.
   The jury shall be comprised of 12 jurors.
(Prior Code, § 15-602)
§ 15-603 MASTER JURY LIST.
   Jurors shall be selected from a list of registered city voters provided by
the City Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 15-603)
§ 15-604 PREPARATION OF JURY LIST FOR TRIAL.
   When a trial is scheduled in the Municipal Court, the Court Clerk shall, no
later than 15 days before the scheduled trial date: obtain a copy of the master
jury list from the City Recorder’s office; randomly select the number of jurors
required for the Municipal Court from the panel or pool of jurors available for
service; and contact or otherwise arrange for the jurors so selected to appear
at the specified date, time, and place of the Municipal Court trial. If, before
the trial date, it becomes known that the jury panel will not be needed, the
Municipal Court Clerk shall notify the scheduled jurors.
(Prior Code, § 15-604)
§ 15-605 PENALTY FOR FAILURE OF JURORS TO ATTEND.
   If any person duly summoned to attend as a juror shall neglect to attend,
without any sufficient excuse, he or she shall pay a fine not exceeding $50,
which shall be imposed by the Municipal Judge.
(Prior Code, § 15-605)
§ 15-606 DISCHARGE OF JURORS; EXCUSE FROM ATTENDANCE.
   The court, when not incompatible with the proper dispatch of its business,
shall have power to discharge persons summoned as jurors or dispense with their
attendance on any day of its sitting.
(Prior Code, § 15-606)
§ 15-607 WHEN JUROR NOT ENTITLED TO COMPENSATION.
   No juror who shall depart without leave of the Municipal Judge shall be
entitled to receive any compensation for his or her services as a juror.
(Prior Code, § 15-607)
§ 15-608 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION.
   Such jurors shall be paid, inclusive of meal or travel cost within the city,
related to jury duty. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Court Clerk, as
soon as practicable after the adjournment of the court, or before the
adjournment of the court at such time as the court may direct, to deliver to
each juror a certified copy of any order making an allowance to him or her,
payable out of the City Treasury; and the Treasurer shall, upon demand, pay to
such juror the amount allowed to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 15-608)
§ 15-609 TRIAL PROCEDURE.
   Upon selection of a jury, as set forth in this chapter, the Municipal Court
Judge shall conduct a trial by jury consistent with the procedures set forth in
the “Rules of Criminal Procedure for West Virginia Magistrate Courts.”
(Prior Code, § 15-609)
§ 15-610 DEFENDANT RESPONSIBLE.
   Any time a trial by jury is granted by the Municipal Court Judge, the
defendant shall be responsible for the payment of the juror’s fees and cost of
service for each juror to the Clerk of the court for disbursement to each
juror. Also, the defendant shall pay the Clerk a sum of $200 for administrative
fees (mailings, notices, and costs associated) for the trial. These fees and
costs are passed to the defendant, only if the defendant is found guilty.
(Prior Code, § 15-610)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
West Virginia Code Code Section
West Virginia Code      Code Section
1-61-101(d)             Chapter 4,
                        4-5
Ch. 3                   6-1;
                        6-104
Ch. 3, Art. 3           6-103
Ch. 3, Art. 4           6-103
Ch. 3, Art. 5           6-103
Ch. 3, Art. 6           6-103
Ch. 3, Art. 8           6-101
Ch. 3, Art. 9           6-101
3-1-2                   6-100
3-1-2a                  6-101
3-1-3                   6-102
3-1-4                   6-103
3-1-7                   6-107
3-1-27                  6-106;
                        6-108
Art. 3-3                6-105
5-15-5                  13-807
7-1-3ff(d)              12-4
7-1-3kk                 5-600
7-1-3n                  5-600
7-1-3u                  5-601
7-1-3v                  5-600
7-25-23                 12-4
8-10-1                  12-2;
                        15-6
8-11-1                  1-106;
                        13-911
8-12-5                  11-305
8-12-5(58)              1-106
8-12-13                 5-100
8-12-14                 5-600
8-12-15                 5-17
8-12-16                 5-200;
                        5-201
8-12-16a                5-301
8-12-16c                5-300
8-13-7                  3-29
8-14-1                  12-1;
                        12-3
8-14-3                  12-200
8-14-4                  12-110
8-14-5                  12-109
8-14-5a                 12-109
8-14A                   12-111
8-14A-1                 12-111
8-14A-2                 12-111
8-14A-3                 12-111
8-14A-4                 12-111
8-14A-5                 12-111
8-15-4                  7-11
8-16-1                  11-1;
                        11-2
8-16-2                  11-3
8-21                    11-400
8-21-3                  11-400
8-21-5                  11-400
8-21-14                 11-400
8-33 et seq.            5-2
8-33-3                  5-2
8-33-4                  5-2
8A-4-2                  5-600
8A-5-7                  5-600
8A-7-2                  5-600
                        5-600;
11-3-3a                 5-604;
                        5-606
11-12-20                8-27
11-12-20 et seq.        8-27
11-16-2                 3-11
11-16-7                 3-22
15-9-1                  12-4
15A-10-20               9-706
15A-11-5                5-100
16-5B-19                12-4
                        13-2;
Ch. 17                  13-1406;
                        13-1408
17-23                   9-23
17-24A-1                9-23
17-24A-2                9-23
17-24A-3                9-23
17-24A-4                9-23
17-24A-5                9-23
17-24A-6                9-23
17-24A-7                9-23
17-24A-6a               9-23
                        13-2;
Ch. 17A                 13-1307;
                        13-1400;
                        13-1403
17A-1-1                 9-23;
                        9-705
17A-3-1                 13-1400
17A-3-2                 13-1301
17A-3-13                13-1401
17A-3-15                13-1402
17A-3-18                13-1400
17A-6-1(a)(2)           9-23
17A-6C-1                9-23
17A-8-4                 13-1112
17A-8-6                 13-1112
17A-9-2                 13-1403
17A-9-3                 13-1404
17A-10-1                13-1;
                        13-1402
17A-11-1                13-1303
Ch. 17B                 13-2;
                        13-1601
17B-2-1                 13-1405
17B-2-1a                13-1406
17B-2-2                 13-1406
17B-2-3a                13-1125
17B-2-7b                13-1405
17B-2-9                 13-1407
17B-2-13                13-1405
17B-3-8                 13-403
17B-4-1                 13-1408
17B-4-3                 13-403;
                        13-1409
17B-4-4                 13-1410
Ch. 17C                 13-2;
                        13-1223
17C-1-1                 13-1
17C-1-2                 13-1
17C-1-3                 13-1
17C-1-4                 13-1;
                        13-1600
17C-1-5                 13-1;
                        13-1600
17C-1-5a                13-1;
                        13-1600
17C-1-6                 13-1
17C-1-7                 13-1
17C-1-8                 13-1
17C-1-9                 13-1
17C-1-10                13-1
17C-1-11                13-1
17C-1-12                13-1
17C-1-13                13-1
17C-1-15                13-1
17C-1-16                13-1
17C-1-17                13-1
17C-1-18                13-1
17C-1-19                13-1
17C-1-20                13-1
17C-1-21                13-1
17C-1-22                13-1
17C-1-24                13-1
17C-1-25                13-1
17C-1-26                13-1
17C-1-27                13-1
17C-1-28                13-1
17C-1-29                13-1
17C-1-30                13-1
17C-1-31                13-1
17C-1-32                13-1
17C-1-33                13-1
17C-1-34                13-1
17C-1-35                13-1
17C-1-36                13-1
17C-1-37                13-1
17C-1-38                13-1
17C-1-39                13-1
17C-1-40                13-1
17C-1-41                13-1
17C-1-42                13-1
17C-1-43                13-1
17C-1-44                13-1
17C-1-45                13-1
17C-1-46                13-1
17C-1-47                13-1
17C-1-48                13-1
17C-1-49                13-1
17C-1-50                13-1
17C-1-51                13-1
17C-1-52                13-1
17C-1-53                13-1
17C-1-54                13-1
17C-1-55                13-1
17C-1-56                13-1
17C-1-57                13-1
17C-1-58                13-1
17C-1-59                13-1
17C-1-60                13-1
17C-1-61                13-1
17C-1-62                13-1
17C-1-64                13-1
17C-1-65                13-1
17C-1-66                13-1
17C-1-70                13-1
17C-2-2                 13-5
17C-2-3(c)              13-11
17C-2-4                 13-12
17C-2-5                 13-13
17C-2-6                 13-14
17C-2-8                 13-1301
17C-2A-12               13-1301
17C-3-4                 13-201
17C-3-4a                13-202
17C-3-5                 13-204
17C-3-6                 13-205
17C-3-7                 13-206
17C-3-8                 13-207
17C-3-9                 13-208
17C-4-1                 13-100;
                        13-108
17C-4-2                 13-106
17C-4-3                 13-105
17C-4-4                 13-104
17C-4-5                 13-107
17C-4-6                 13-101
17C-4-8                 13-102
17C-4-12                13-103
17C-5-1                 13-1125
17C-5-2                 13-300;
                        15-500
17C-5-2b                13-300
17C-5-3                 13-301
17C-5A-3a               13-300
17C-6                   13-400
17C-6-1                 13-400;
                        13-405
17C-6-2                 13-1301
17C-6-3a(a)             13-401
17C-6-4                 13-402
17C-6-5                 13-402
17C-6-8                 13-403;
                        13-406
17C-6-9                 13-404
17C-6-11                13-1223
17C-7-1                 13-500
17C-7-2                 13-501
17C-7-3                 13-502
17C-7-4                 13-503
17C-7-5                 15-504
17C-7-6                 15-505
17C-7-7                 13-506
17C-7-8(b)              13-507
17C-7-8(c)              13-507
17C-7-10                13-509
17C-7-11                13-510
17C-7-12                13-511
17C-8-1                 13-600
17C-8-2                 13-601
17C-8-3                 13-602
17C-8-4                 13-603
17C-8-5                 13-604
17C-8-6                 13-605
17C-8-7                 13-606
17C-8-8                 13-607
17C-8-9                 13-608
17C-8-10                13-609
17C-9-1                 13-700
17C-9-2                 13-701
17C-9-3                 13-702
17C-9-4                 13-703
17C-9-5                 13-704
17C-9-6                 13-706
17C-10-1(a)             13-800
17C-10-2                13-801
17C-10-3                13-802
17C-10-4                13-803
17C-10-5                13-804
17C-10-6                13-805
17C-10-7                13-809
17C-10-8                13-806
17C-10A-1               13-808
17C-10A-2               13-808;
                        13-809
17C-11A-3               13-910
17C-11-1                13-900
17C-11-2                13-901
17C-11-3                13-902
17C-11-4                13-903
17C-11-5                13-904
17C-11-6                13-905
17C-11-7                13-906
17C-11A-4               13-910
17C-11A-5               13-910
17C-11A-6               13-910
17C-11A-7               13-911
17C-12-1                13-1000
17C-12-2                13-1001
17C-12-3                13-1002
17C-12-4                13-1003
17C-12-5                13-1004
17C-12-6                13-1005
17C-12-7                13-1006
17C-12-8                13-1006;
                        13-1007
17C-12-17a              13-1007
17C-13-1                13-6
17C-13-3                13-6
17C-14-1                13-1100
17C-14-2                13-1101
17C-14-4                13-1102
17C-14-5                13-1103
17C-14-6                13-1104
17C-14-8                13-1115
17C-14-9                13-1105
17C-14-9a               13-1106
17C-14-10               13-1107
17C-14-11               13-1122
17C-14-12               13-1223
17C-14-14               13-1124
17C-14-15               13-1125
17C-15-1                13-1200
17C-15-2                13-1201
17C-15-3                13-1202
17C-15-4                13-1203
17C-15-5                13-1204
17C-15-6                13-1241
17C-15-8                13-1205
17C-15-9                13-1206
17C-15-10               13-1207
17C-15-11               13-1208
17C-15-12               13-1209
17C-15-13               13-1210
17C-15-14               13-1211
17C-15-15               13-1212
17C-15-16               13-1213
17C-15-17               13-1214
17C-15-18               13-1215
17C-15-19               13-1216
17C-15-20               13-1217
17C-15-21               13-1218
17C-15-22               13-1219
17C-15-23               13-1220
17C-15-24               13-1221
17C-15-25               13-1222
17C-15-26               13-1
17C-15-26(e)            13-1007
17C-15-27               13-1223
17C-15-31               13-1224
17C-15-32               13-1225
17C-15-33               13-1226
17C-15-34               13-1227
17C-15-35               13-1228
17C-15-36               13-1229
17C-15-36a              13-1239;
                        13-1241
17C-15-37               13-1230
17C-15-38               13-1231
17C-15-41               13-1232
17C-15-42               13-1233
17C-15-44               13-1234
17C-15-45               13-1235
17C-15-46               13-1236
17C-15-48               13-1238
17C-15-49               13-1240
Art. 17C-16             13-1237
17C-16                  9-23
17C-16-9                13-1237
Art. 17C-17             13-1300;
                        13-1301
17C-17-2                13-1301
17C-17-4                13-1301
17C-17-5                13-1301
17C-17-6                13-1302
17C-17-6a               13-1304
17C-17-7                13-1303
17C-17-8                13-1305
17C-17-9a               13-1306
17C-17-10               13-1307
17C-17-11b              13-1301
17C-17-12               13-18
17C-17-13               13-1307
17C-17-14               13-1308
17C-18-1                13-911
17C-19-3                13-1505
Art. 17C-23             13-1700
Ch. 17D                 13-2;
                        13-1601
Art. 17D-2A             13-1119
17D-2A-9                13-1119;
                        13-1303
Ch. 17E                 13-2
Art. 17E-1              13-1500
17E-1-1 et seq.         13-1125
17E-1-3                 13-1500
17E-1-4                 13-1501
17E-1-5                 13-1502
17E-1-6                 13-1502
17E-1-7                 13-1503
17E-1-8                 13-1504
17E-1-9(d)              13-1500
17E-1-14                13-1505
17E-1-15                13-1505
17E-1-25                13-1506
Ch. 17F                 13-1602
17F-1-8                 13-1608
17F-1-9                 13-1600
18-1-1                  9-16
18-26-2(b)              13-1
18-26-2(c)              13-1
18-26-2(d)              13-1
18-26-2(e)              13-1
18-26-2(f)              13-1
18B-4-5                 12-4
19-20A                  4-214
20-2-7                  9-102
20-2-8                  9-102
20-2-10                 9-102
20-7-18b                15-500
21-9-4                  5-605
21-11-3                 5-606
21-11-10                5-606
22-15-2                 9-23
22-15-15                9-23
22C-4-10                11-305
24A-2-2a                9-23
28-4                    5-604
29-3E-2                 7-13
29-22B-328(a)(1)        3-15
29A-3B-1 et seq.        13-1006
30-6-4                  13-1700
Ch. 30, Art. 13         5-601
Ch. 30, Art. 13 et seq. 5-601
30-29-1                 9-708;
                        12-4
30-29-5                 12-5
30-29-8                 12-6
30-42-3(d)              5-601
30-42-10                5-606
38-2-5                  9-402
Ch. 47                  Charter
Ch. 50                  15-6
55-7A-2                 9-14
59-2-1(c)               13-911
Ch. 59, Art. 3          9-23
Ch. 60                  3-15;
                        9-314
60-1-5                  3-11;
                        9-4
60-3 et seq.            3-29
60-4-22                 3-22
60-4-23                 3-22
60A-4-417               9-5
60-6-8                  3-14
60-7                    3-29
60-7-3                  3-14
60-7-7                  3-21
60-8                    3-29
60-8-1 et seq.          3-28
                        5-204;
Ch. 60A                 9-3;
                        13-300
60A-2-204               9-3
60A-2-204 et seq.       9-3
60A-2-206               9-3
60A-2-208               9-3
60A-2-210               9-3
60A-2-212               9-3
60A-4-411               5-204
60A-4-417               9-4
61-1-9                  9-708
61-2-9                  9-200;
                        9-201
61-3-13                 9-100
61-3-18                 9-101
61-3-30                 9-102
61-3-49                 9-101
61-3-53                 11-321
61-3A-1 et seq.         9-107
61-3B-1                 9-104
61-3B-2                 9-104
61-3B-3                 9-104
61-5-17                 9-705
61-6-17                 9-707
61-6-20                 9-711
61-7-1                  9-104
61-8-11                 9-4
61-8-19                 4-5
61-8D-10                9-13
61-10-1                 9-314
61-10-2                 9-314
61-10-3                 9-314
61-10-4                 9-314
61-10-5                 9-315
61-10-6                 9-315
61-10-9                 9-315
61-10-10                9-315
61-10-11                9-315
61-11-8                 9-709
Ch. 62                  15-6
62-1-5a                 9-710
62-1C                   15-400
62-11A-1                13-300
Art. 62-11B             13-1410
62-11B-1 et seq.        13-300
62-11B-5                13-300
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code      2026 Code
1-1             1-1
1-2             1-2
1-3             1-3
1-4             1-4
1-5             1-5
1-100           1-100
1-101           1-101
1-102           1-102
1-103           1-103
1-104           1-104
1-105           1-105
1-106           1-106
1-107           1-107
1-108           1-108
1-108           1-109
2-1             2-1
2-2             2-2
2-3             2-3
2-4             2-4
2-100           2-100
2-101           2-101
2-102           2-102
2-103           2-103
2-104           2-104
2-105           2-105
2-200           2-200
2-201           2-201
2-202           2-202
2-203           2-203
2-204           2-204
2-205           2-205
2-300           2-300
2-301           2-301
2-302           2-302
2.303           2-303
2-400           2-400
2-401           2-402
2-500           2-500
2-501           2-501
2-600           2-600
2-601           2-601
2-602           2-602
2-700           2-700
2-701           2-701
2-702           2-702
2-703           2-703
2-704           2-704
2-705           2-705
2-706           2-706
2-900           2-900
2-901           2-901
Chapter 3, 1-1  3-11
Chapter 3, 1-2  3-12
Chapter 3, 1-3  3-13
Chapter 3, 1-4  3-14
Chapter 3, 1-6  3-16
Chapter 3, 2-1  3-21
Chapter 3, 2-2  3-22
Chapter 3, 2-3  3-23
Chapter 3, 2-4  3-24
Chapter 3, 2-5  3-25
Chapter 3, 2-7  3-26
Chapter 3, 2-8  3-27
Chapter 3, 2-9  3-28
Chapter 3, 2-10 3-29
4-1             4-1
4-2             4-2
4-3             4-3
4-4             4-4
4-6             4-6
4-7             4-7
4-8             4-8
4-9             4-9
4-10            4-10
4-11            4-11
4-12            4-12
4-13            4-13
4-14            4-14
4-15            4-15
4-16            4-16
4-17            4-17
4-18            4-18
4-19            4-19
4-20            4-20
4-21            4-21
4-22            4-22
4-100           4-100
4-101           4-101
4-102           4-102
4-103           4-103
4-200           4-200
4-201           4-201
4-202           4-202
4-203           4-203
4-204           4-204
4-205           4-205
4-206           4-206
4-207           4-207
4-208           4-208
4-209           4-209
4-210           4-210
4-211           4-211
4-212           4-212
4-213           4-213
4-214           4-214
4-215           4-215
4-216           4-216
4-217           4-217
4-218           4-218
4-219           4-219
4-220           4-220
4-221           4-221
4-222           4-222
4-223           4-223
4-224           4-224
4-300           4-300
4-301           4-301
4-302           4-302
4-303           4-303
4-304           4-304
4-305           4-305
4-306           4-306
4-400           4-400
4-401           4-401
4-402           4-402
4-403           4-403
4-404           4-404
4-405           4-405
4-406           4-406
4-500           4-500
4-501           4-501
4-502           4-502
4-503           4-503
4-504           4-504
4-505           4-505
4-600           4-600
4-601           4-601
5-1             5-1
5-2             5-2
5-3             5-3
5-4             5-4
5-5             5-5
5-6             5-6
5-7             5-7
5-8             5-8
5-9             5-9
5-10            5-10
5-11            5-11
5-12            5-12
5-13            5-13
5-14            5-14
5-15            5-15
5-16            5-16
5-17            5-17
5-100           5-100
5-101           5-101
5-102           5-102
5-103           5-103
5-104           5-104
5-200           5-200
5-201           5-201
5-202           5-202
5-203           5-203
5-204           5-204
5-300           5-300
5-301           5-301
5-400           5-400
5-401           5-401
5-402           5-402
5-403           5-403
5-404           5-404
5-405           5-405
5-406           5-406
5-407           5-407
5-408           5-408
5-409           5-409
5-410           5-410
5-411           5-411
5-412           5-412
5-500           5-500
5-600           5-600
5-601           5-601
5-602           5-602
5-603           5-603
5-604           5-604
5-605           5-605
5-606           5-606
5-607           5-607
5-608           5-608
5-609           5-609
6-1             6-1
6-100           6-100
6-101           6-101
6-102           6-102
6-102           6-103
6-103           6-104
6-104           6-105
6-105           6-106
6-104           6-107
6-105           6-108
7-1             7-11
7-2             7-12
7-3             7-13
7-4             7-14
7-              7-21
7-6             7-22
7-7             7-23
7-8             7-24
7-9             7-25
7-10            7-31
7-11            7-32
7-12            7-33
7-13            7-34
7-14            7-35
7-15            7-36
8-1             8-11
8-2             8-12
8-3             8-13
8-4             8-14
8-5             8-15
8-6             8-16
8-7             8-17
8-8             8-18
8-9             8-19
8-10            8-20
8-11            8-21
8-12            8-22
8-13            8-23
8-14            8-24
8-15            8-25
8-16            8-26
8-17            8-27
8-18            8-201
8-19            8-202
8-20            8-203
8-21            8-204
8-22            8-205
8-23            8-206
8-24            8-207
8-25            8-208
8-26            8-209
8-27            8-210
8-28            8-211
8-29            8-212
8-30            8-213
8-31            8-314
8-32            8-315
8-33            8-316
8-34            8-317
8-35            8-301
8-36            8-302
8-37            8-303
8-38            8-304
8-39            8-305
8-40            8-306
8-41            8-307
8-42            8-308
8-43            8-309
8-44            8-401
8-45            8-402
8-46            8-403
8-47            8-404
8-48            8-405
8-49            8-406
8-50            8-407
8-51            8-408
8-52            8-501
8-53            8-502
8-54            8-503
8-55            8-504
8-56            8-505
8-57            8-506
8-58            8-507
8-59            8-508
8-60            8-509
8-61            8-510
8-62            8-511
8-63            8-512
8-64            8-513
9-1             9-1
9-2             9-2
9-3             9-3
9-4             9-4
9-5             9-5
9-6             9-6
9-7             9-7
9-8             9-8
9-9             9-9
9-10            9-10
9-11            9-11
9-12            9-12
9-13            9-13
9-14            9-14
9-15            9-15
9-16            9-16
9-17            9-17
9-18            9-18
9-19            9-19
9-20            9-20
9-21            9-21
9-22            9-22
9-23            9-23
9-24            9-24
9-25            9-25
9-26            9-26
9-27            9-27
9-28            9-28
9-29            9-29
9-30            9-30
9-100           9-100
9-101           9-101
9-102           9-102
9-103           9-103
9-104           9-104
9-105           9-105
9-106           9-106
9-107           9-107
9-108           9-108
9-109           9-109
9-110           9-110
9-111           9-111
9-112           9-112
9-200           9-200
9-201           9-201
9-300           9-300
9-301           9-301
9-302           9-302
9-303           9-303
9-304           9-304
9-305           9-305
9-306           9-306
9-307           9-307
9-308           9-308
9-309           9-309
9-310           9-310
9-311           9-311
9-312           9-312
9-313           9-313
9-315           9-315
9-316           9-316
9-317           9-317
9-318           9-318
9-319           9-319
9-320           9-320
9-321           9-321
9-322           9-322
9-400           9-400
9-401           9-401
9-402           9-402
9-403           9-403
9-500           9-500
9-501           9-501
9-502           9-502
9-503           9-503
9-504           9-504
9-505           9-505
9-506           9-506
9-507           9-507
9-508           9-508
9-509           9-509
9-510           9-510
9-511           9-511
9-512           9-512
9-513           9-513
9-514           9-514
9-515           9-515
9-516           9-516
9-517           9-517
9-517(A)        9-517(A)
9-517(B)        9-517(B)
9-518           9-518
9-700           9-700
9-701           9-701
9-702           9-702
9-703           9-703
9-704           9-704
9-705           9-705
9-706           9-706
9-707           9-707
9-708           9-708
9-709           9-709
9-710           9-610
9-711           9-711
9-712           9-712
10-1            10-1
10-2            10-2
10-3            10-3
10-4            10-4
10-5            10-5
10-6            10-6
10-7            10-7
10-8            10-8
10-9            10-9
10-10           10-10
10-11           10-11
10-12           10-12
10-13           10-13
10-14           10-14
10-15           10-15
10-16           10-16
10-17           10-17
10-18           10-18
10-19           10-19
10-20           10-20
10-21           10-21
10-22           10-22
10-23           10-23
10-24           10-24
10-25           10-25
10-26           10-26
10-27           10-27
10-28           10-28
10-29           10-29
10-30           10-30
10-31           10-31
10-32           10-32
10-33           10-33
10-34           10-34
10-35           10-35
10-36           10-36
10-37           10-37
10-38           10-38
10-39           10-39
10-40           10-40
10-41           10-41
10-42           10-42
10-43           10-43
10-44           10-44
10-45           10-45
10-46           10-46
10-47           10-47
10-48           10-48
10-49           10-49
10-50           10-50
10-51           10-51
10-52           10-52
10-53           10-53
10-54           10-54
10-55           10-55
11-1            11-1
11-2            11-2
11-3            11-3
11-4            11-4
11-5            11-5
11-6            11-6
11-7            11-7
11-8            11-8
11-9            11-9
11-10           11-10
11-11           11-11
11-12           11-12
11-13           11-13
11-14           11-14
11-15           11-15
11-16           11-16
11-100          11-100
11-101          11-101
11-102          11-102
11-103          11-103
11-104          11-104
11-105          11-105
11-201          11-201
11-202          11-202
11-203          11-203
11-204          11-204
11-205          11-205
11-206          11-206
11-300          11-300
11-301          11-301
11-302          11-302
911-303         11-303
11-304          11-304
11-305          11-305
11-306          11-306
11-307          11-307
11-308          11-308
11-309          11-309
11-310          11-310
11-311          11-311
11-312          11-312
11-313          11-313
11-314          11-314
11-315          11-315
11-316          11-316
11-317          11-317
11-318          11-318
11-319          11-319
11-320          11-320
11-321          11-321
11-322          11-322
11-323          11-323
11-400          11-400
11-401          11-401
11-402          11-402
12-1            12-1
12-2            12-2
12-3            12-3
12-4            12-4
12-5            12-5
12-6            12-6
12-7            12-7
12-8            12-8
12-9            12-9
12-100          12-100
12-101          12-101
12-102          12-102
12-103          12-103
12-104          12-104
12-105          12-105
12-106          12-106
12-107          12-107
12-108          12-108
12-109          12-109
12-110          12-110
12-111          12-111
12-200          12-200
12-201          12-201
12-202          12-202
12-203          12-203
12-204          12-204
12-300          12-300
13-1            13-1
13-2            13-2
13-3            13-3
13-4            13-4
13-5            13-5
13-6            13-6
13-7            13-7
13-8            13-8
13-9            13-9
13-10           13-10
13-11           13-11
13-12           13-12
13-13           13-13
13-14           13-14
13-15           13-15
13-16           13-16
13-17           13-17
13-18           13-18
13-19           13-19
13-20           13-20
13-21           13-21
13-100          13-100
13-101          13-101
13-102          13-102
13-103          13-103
13-104          13-104
13-105          13-105
13-106          13-106
13-107          13-107
13-108          13-108
13-200          13-200
13-201          13-201
13-202          13-202
13-203          13-203
13-204          13-204
13-205          13-205
13-206          13-206
13-207          13-207
13-208          13-208
13-209          13-209
13-300          13-300
13-301          13-301
13-302          13-302
13-303          13-303
13-400          13-400
13-401          13-401
13-402          13-402
13-403          13-403
13-404          13-404
13-405          13-405
13-406          13-406
13-500          13-500
13-501          13-501
13-502          13-502
13-503          13-503
13-504          15-504
13-505          13-505
13-506          13-506
13-507          13-507
13-508          13-508
13-509          13-509
13-510          13-510
13-511          13-511
13-512          13-512
13-600          13-600
13-601          13-601
13-602          13-602
13-603          13-603
13-604          13-604
13-605          13-605
13-606          13-606
13-607          13-607
13-608          13-608
13-609          13-609
13-610          13-610
13-700          13-700
13-701          13-701
13-702          13-702
13-703          13-703
13-704          13-704
13-705          13-705
13-706          13-706
13-800          13-800
13-801          13-801
13-802          13-802
13-803          13-803
13-804          13-804
13-805          13-805
13-806          13-806
13-807          13-807
13-808          13-808
13-809          13-809
13-900          13-900
13-901          13-901
13-902          13-902
13-903          13-903
13-904          13-904
13-905          13-905
13-906          13-906
13-907          13-907
13-908          13-908
13-909          13-909
13-910          13-910
13-911          13-911
13-1000         13-1000
13-1001         13-1001
13-1002         13-1002
13-1003         13-1003
13-1004         13-1004
13-1005         13-1005
13-1006         13-1006
13-1007         13-1007
13-1008         13-1008
13-1009         13-1009
13-1100         13-1100
13-1101         13-1101
13-1102         13-1102
13-1103         13-1103
13-1104         13-1104
13-1105         13-1105
13-1106         13-1106
13-1107         13-1107
13-1108         13-1108
13-1109         13-1109
13-1110         13-1110
13-1111         13-1111
13-1112         13-1112
13-1113         13-1113
13-1114         13-1114
13-1115         13-1115
13-1116         13-1116
13-1117         13-1117
13-1118         13-1118
13-1119         13-1119
13-1120         13-1120
13-1121         13-1121
13-1122         13-1122
13-1123         13-1123
13-1124         13-1124
13-1125         13-1125
13-1126         13-1126
13-1200         13-1200
13-1201         13-1201
13-1202         13-1202
13-1203         13-1203
13-1204         13-1204
13-1205         13-1205
13-1206         13-1206
13-1207         13-1207
13-1208         13-1208
13-1209         13-1209
13-1210         13-1210
13-1211         13-1211
13-1212         13-1212
13-1213         13-1213
13-1214         13-1214
13-1215         13-1215
13-1216         13-1216
13-1217         13-1217
13-1218         13-1218
13-1219         13-1219
13-1220         13-1220
13-1221         13-1221
13-1222         13-1222
13-1224         13-1224
13-1225         13-1225
13-1226         13-1226
13-1227         13-1227
13-1228         13-1228
13-1229         13-1229
13-1230         13-1230
13-1231         13-1231
13-1232         13-1232
13-1233         13-1233
13-1234         13-1234
13-1235         13-1235
13-1236         13-1236
13-1237         13-1237
13-1238         13-1238
13-1239         13-1239
13-1240         13-1240
13-1241         13-1241
13-1300         13-1300
13-1302         13-1301
13-1303         13-1302
13-1304         13-1303
13-1305         13-1304
13-1306         13-1305
13-1307         13-1306
13-1308         13-1307
13-1310         13-1308
13-1311         13-1309
13-1400         13-1400
13-1401         13-1401
13-1402         13-1402
13-1403         13-1403
13-1404         13-1404
13-1405         13-1405
13-1406         13-1406
13-1407         13-1407
13-1408         13-1408
13-1409         13-1409
13-1410         13-1410
13-1411         13-1411
13-1500         13-1500
13-1501         13-1501
13-1502         13-1502
13-1503         13-1503
13-1504         13-1504
13-1505         13-1505
13-1506         13-1506
13-1600         13-1600
13-1601         13-1601
13-1602         13-1602
13-1603         13-1603
13-1604         13-1604
13-1605         13-1605
13-1606         13-1606
13-1607         13-1607
13-1608         13-1608
15-1            15-1
15-2            15-2
15-3            15-3
15-4            15-4
15-5            15-5
15-6            15-6
15-7            15-7
15-100          15-100
15-101          15-101
15-200          15-200
15-201          15-201
15-202          15-202
15-203          15-203
15-204          15-204
15-300          15-300
15-301          15-301
15-302          15-302
15-303          15-303
15-304          15-304
15-305          15-305
15-306          15-306
15-307          15-307
15-308          15-308
15-309          15-309
15-310          15-310
15-311          15-311
15-312          15-312
15-313          15-313
15-314          15-314
15-315          15-315
15-316          15-316
15-317          15-317
15-400          15-400
15-401          15-401
15-402          15-402
15-403          15-403
15-404          15-404
15-405          15-405
15-500          15-500
15-501          15-501
15-502          15-502
15-503          15-503
15-504          15-504
15-505          15-505
15-506          15-506
15-600          15-600
15-601          15-601
15-602          15-602
15-603          15-603
15-604          15-604
15-605          15-605
15-606          15-606
15-607          15-607
15-608          15-608
15-609          15-609
15-610          15-610
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13-1120  - -         11-401
-        8-1-1983    3-21
-        11-16-2009  Charter
-        9-15-2015   15-318
-        1--2020     2-303;
                     2-602
 
 
