HOLIDAY ISLAND, ARKANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through ordinance 2026-017 published 8-17-2026
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Ste. 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF HOLIDAY ISLAND, ARKANSAS
Mayor
Dan Kees
Recorder-Treasurer
Wesley Stille
Council Members
 
Ward 1, Position 1 Lynn Dumas
Ward 1, Position 2 Ken Mills
Ward 2, Position 1 Sharon Lawler
Ward 2, Position 2 Linda Graves
Ward 3, Position 1  
Ward 3, Position 2 Barb Kuhn
 
City Attorney
Justin Eichmann
Attorney at Harrington, Miller, Kieklak, Eichmann & Brown, P.A.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by, and for, the City of Holiday Island
shall be designated as the “Code of Holiday Island”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending, or supplementing, this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only, and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar, and appropriate, meaning in law shall be understood according to
their technical import.
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Holiday Island,
Arkansas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Carroll County, Arkansas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before, or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Arkansas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis, and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body, or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other, as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, or ordinance, requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now, or later, amended, or its application
to any person, or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend, and apply, to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed, or materially altered, by the amendment, or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be
corrected, and such word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made, or permitted, if any question exists
regarding the nature, or extent, of such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act, or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from, and after, the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The effective dates for ordinances of a general or permanent nature
and other local measures of a general or permanent nature of cities of the
first class, cities of the second class and incorporated towns shall be upon
publication or posting as is otherwise required by law, but not before 91 days
after passage by the governing body of the city or town.
   (B)   In the event that the governing body of the city or town has by
ordinance fixed the deadline for filing referendum petitions upon ordinances or
other local measures at not less than 30 days, nor more than 90 days, after
passage of an ordinance or measure, then the effective date shall be the day
next following the deadline fixed in the ordinance.
      (C)   (1)   An ordinance containing an emergency clause shall go into
effect immediately upon passage or at the time specified by the emergency
clause, regardless of publication or posting, but an emergency clause shall not
be effective to impose any fine, penalty, forfeiture or deprivation of liberty
or property until after the ordinance has been published or posted as is
otherwise required by law.
      (2)   The effective date of an ordinance that is not of a general or
permanent nature of a city of the first class, city of the second class or
incorporated town is the date of passage of the ordinance unless a later
effective date is provided in the ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see A.C.A. § 14-55-203
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed, or
modified, by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date, of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (A.C.A. § 14-55-504) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see A.C.A. §§ 25-19-101 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty established. If an ordinance or code does not
specifically provide for the penalty for violating that ordinance or code, then
this section, along with the below-mentioned fines, will encompass those
violations. This section is not designated to supersede any ordinance or code
in which penalties have already been established. Any conflict between the
penalties stated below, and any other ordinance or code violations will be
resolved by deference to the more specific ordinance or code violation.
   (B)   Maximum penalties permitted.
      (1)   The city shall not inflict any fine or penalty by ordinance or
otherwise, to a greater sum than $1,000 for any one specified offense or
violation of a bylaw or ordinance, or double that sum for each repetition of
such offense or violation.
      (2)   If a thing prohibited or rendered unlawful, is, in its nature,
continuous in respect to time, the fine or penalty, for allowing the
continuance thereof, in violation of the bylaw or ordinance, shall not exceed
$500 for each day that it may be unlawfully continued.
      (3)   If any bylaw or ordinance provides for any greater fine, penalty or
forfeiture than is provided in this section, it shall, and may be, lawful, in
any suit or prosecution, for the recovery thereof, to reduce it to such amount
as shall be deemed reasonable and proper, and to permit a recovery, or render a
judgment, for such amount as authorized.
(A.C.A. § 14-55-504)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City wards, boundaries
   
11.02   City logo
   
11.03   Designated newspaper
§ 11.01 CITY WARDS, BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall be organized into three wards according to the map and legal
descriptions below:
   (A)   Ward #1. Beginning at the intersection of the municipal boundary and
Pleasant Ridge Drive, follow the municipal boundary west. Continue to follow
the municipal boundary clockwise to a point directly north of the intersection
of Shields Drive and Bandy Drive on the Island. From that point, go south to
said intersection to Woodsdale Drive to Green Meadow Drive to Larkspur Lane to
Hillside Drive to Stateline Drive to Holiday Island Drive to Pleasant Ridge
Drive to the starting point;
   (B)   Ward #2. Start at the point on the municipal boundary directly north
of the Woodsdale Drive bridge. From that point, go south to Woodsdale Drive to
Green Meadow Drive to Larkspur Lane to Hillside Drive to Stateline Drive to
Holiday Island Drive to Pleasant Ridge Drive to the intersection of the
municipal boundary and Pleasant Ridge Drive. Follow the municipal boundary
(starting out east) to Highway 23. Follow Highway 23 to Holiday Island Drive.
Follow Holiday Island Drive to Hawk Lane to Hawk Drive to Wild Turkey Drive to
Valley Drive to Pearl Drive to Starlite Avenue to Saturn Avenue to Summit Drive
to Skyview Drive to the north municipal boundary (Arkansas/Missouri state
line). Follow the north municipal boundary west to the starting point; and
   (C)   Ward #3. Beginning at the intersection of Skyview Drive and the north
municipal boundary (Arkansas/Missouri state Line) follow Skyview Drive to
Summit Drive to Saturn Avenue to Starlite Avenue to Pearl Drive to Valley Drive
Wild Turkey Drive to Hawk Drive to Hawk Lane to Holiday Island Drive to Highway
23. Cross Highway 23 to the intersection of Highway 23 and the municipal
boundary. Follow the municipal boundary until the boundary again intersects
with Highway 23. Follow Highway 23 west (south) to the intersection of the
municipal boundary going north. Follow the municipal boundary to the northern
municipal boundary (Arkansas/Missouri state line). Follow northern municipal
boundary west to the starting point.
(Ord. 2021-007, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 11.02 CITY LOGO.
   (A)   The following logo shall be adopted as the official logo for the city.
   (B)   The city logo will have no commission, department or committee
designation as a part of the logo.
   (C)   Any individual, commission or department wishing to use the city logo
must have prior approval from the Mayor.
(Res. 2024-011, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 11.03 DESIGNATED NEWSPAPER.
   The “Carroll County News Midweek”, (USPS-519-220), published weekly by
Carroll County Newspapers in Berryville, AR, shall be designated as the
“newspaper of general circulation” in the city and used for the publishing of
required notices of the city and its authorized commissions.
(Ord. 2022-011, passed 7-19-2022)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   FISCAL AFFAIRS; FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
32.   REFERENDUM PETITIONS
CHAPTER 30: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation; assigning property
   
30.02   Code of Conduct
   
30.03   AI policy
Officers and Employees
   
30.15   Prosecuting Attorney
   
30.16   City Attorney
   
30.17   City Council members; elections
   
30.18   Recorder-Treasurer
Organizations
   
30.30   Advertising and Promotion Commission
   
30.31   Police Department
   
30.32   Board of Adjustment
   
30.33   Planning Commission
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION; ASSIGNING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Salaries for employees.
      (1)   Effective 1-1-2026, all city personnel salaries and wages shall be
fixed by the Mayor and presented to the City Council as part of the annual
budget which may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   A schedule of current salaries will be kept on file with the
Recorder-Treasurer and available for public inspection.
   (B)   Salaries for elected officials. Effective for the year beginning 1-1-
2026 and ending 12-31-2026, the Mayor, Recorder-Treasurer and City Council
members will be compensated at the following rates:
 
City Council members $0 annually
Mayor                $2,000 monthly
Recorder-Treasurer   $2,520 monthly
 
   (C)   City property.
      (1)   The city department head or supervisor shall be required to get a
signed receipt listing all such property from any person provided with or
furnished any type of property. The receipt shall be filed in the city office
with the Recorder-Treasurer.
      (2)   In the event of death, termination or resignation and the agent,
employee or officer has wages, accrued sick time, vacation, paid leaves of
absence or any other sums due him or her from the city, the city office shall
notify said individual or estate administrator or executor of same in writing
of the amount owed and simultaneously request said individual to return any and
all property supplied or furnished by the city.
      (3)   If the individual has lost, misplaced or otherwise disposed of said
property the city will be paid in full by the individual, his or her executor
or administrator. In the event of depreciable property, the city shall receive
the depreciated value.
      (4)   The city may withhold from wages, accrued sick time, vacation, paid
leave of absence or other sums held by the city, the value of the property not
returned at the time of death, termination or resignation.
(Ord. 2026-001, passed 1-9-2026)
§ 30.02 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Conduct in public meetings. Practice civility and decorum in all
discussions and debate. Municipal officials will not make belligerent personal,
impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive or disparaging comments. No
shouting or physical actions that could be construed as threatening will be
tolerated. Therefore:
      (1)   Avoid personal comments that could offend other municipal
officials;
      (2)   Honor the role of the Mayor and chairpersons of boards/commissions/
committees in maintaining order;
      (3)   Be respectful of other members of the town council, boards,
commissions, committees, city staff and the public by refraining from abusive
conduct, personal charges or verbal attacks;
      (4)   Treat fellow municipal officials with the respect he or she expects
to receive in return;
      (5)   Always address citizens, employees and fellow municipal officials
with respect;
      (6)   Request the opportunity to speak and address the Council/board/
commission/committee through the Mayor or other person conducting the meeting;
      (7)   Recognize fellow municipal officials and guest speakers by their
formal names and appropriate titles; after initial acknowledgment, the terms
“Mr.” or “Ms.” may be used;
      (8)   Be respectful of others’ time and be brief and prepared in making
remarks; and
      (9)   Be prompt in attending public meetings so that they may begin at
the publicly posted time.
   (B)   Conduct with the public. Be polite and professional to speakers.
Municipal officials should remember that their behavior will either relax the
speaker or push their emotions to a higher level of intensity. Therefore:
      (1)   Limit comments to issues and avoid personal attacks;
      (2)   Remain seated when someone is speaking at the podium;
      (3)   Give the appearance of active listening;
      (4)   Ask for clarification, but avoid debate and argument with the
public;
      (5)   Do not engage in personal attacks of any kind under any
circumstance;
      (6)   Make no promises on behalf of the Council/board/commission/
committee or staff; and
      (7)   Make no personal comments about other municipal officials.
   (C)   Affirmation. Municipal officials are required to affirm commitment to
this policy at the beginning of their term or appointment and all elected
municipal officials are required to reaffirm commitment annually.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 30.03 AI POLICY.
   The city hereby adopts the below Artificial Intelligence Policy, which
defines the authorized use of AI and automated decision tools by city
employees.
   (A)   Purpose. This policy establishes guidelines for the authorized and
prohibited use of artificial intelligence (AI) and automated decision tools by
employees and contractors of the city, in compliance with Act 848 of 2025, the
same being A.C.A. § 25-1-128.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI). A machine-based system that, based on a
given set of human-defined objectives, can make predictions, recommendations or
decisions influencing real or virtual environments.
      AUTOMATED DECISION TOOL. A system or service that uses AI and has been
specifically developed and marketed, or specifically modified, to make or to be
a controlling factor in making consequential decisions.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by the city.
   (C)   Authorized use.
      (1)   AI and automated decision tools may be used to enhance efficiency,
accuracy and service delivery in city operations.
      (2)   All consequential decisions involving AI tools must be reviewed and
finalized by a human employee or authorized designee.
      (3)   AI tools must not be used to make autonomous decisions without
human oversight.
   (D)   Prohibited use. In accordance with Section (d) of Act 848 of 2025, AI
and automated decision tools shall not be used by city employees to:
      (1)   Express personal political opinion to an elected official unless
within the scope of the employee’s job duties or upon request by an elected
official or public entity;
      (2)   Engage in lobbying an elected official on a personal opinion if the
employee is not a registered lobbyist for the city;
      (3)   Engage in illegal activities or activities otherwise prohibited by
federal or state law; or
      (4)   Intentionally override or avoid the security and system integrity
procedures of the city.
   (E)   Protecting personal information. Employees must never input personally
identifiable information (PII) into AI tools. This includes, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Names of individuals;
      (2)   Social Security numbers;
      (3)   Driver’s license or ID numbers;
      (4)   Home addresses or phone numbers;
      (5)   Email addresses;
      (6)   Medical or financial records;
      (7)   Employee or student ID numbers; and
      (8)   Photos of individuals without consent.
   (F)   Training.
      (1)   All employees using or interacting with AI tools must complete
training on AI and this policy prior to using AI on city business or equipment.
      (2)   Training shall be provided through the Arkansas Municipal League’s
ACE HUB’s AI Training or other approved sources.
   (G)   Disciplinary action. Violations of this policy may result in
disciplinary action, up to and including termination, in accordance with the
city’s personnel policies and procedures.
   (H)   Acknowledgment. Employee’s shall sign the following acknowledgment: “I
acknowledge that I have read and understood the Artificial Intelligence Policy.
I agree to follow all rules, responsibilities and guidelines outlined in the
policy, including the appropriate and ethical use of artificial intelligence
tools. I understand that violations of this policy and/or failure to comply
with this policy may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.”
(Ord. 2025-018, passed 3-17-2026)
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.15 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The position of Prosecuting Attorney for the city is created and is to
be distinct and different from the position of City Attorney.
   (B)   The position of Prosecuting Attorney be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The Prosecuting Attorney is not required to be a resident of the city.
   (D)   Compensation will be on an hourly basis with the rate of compensation
to be negotiated by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2022-015, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 30.16 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The qualifications, election and term of the office of City Attorney
shall be as provided by state law and, effective immediately, the office of the
City Attorney shall be an appointed office. The City Attorney shall be
permitted to engage in the private practice of law during his or her term of
office.
   (B)   The appointment of the City Attorney shall be made by the Mayor with a
majority vote of the members of the City Council. Said appointment will be on
an annual basis starting in 2021, running January 1 through December 31.
   (C)   The person so appointed shall have all the duties as prescribed by
state law and such other duties as may be prescribed by proper ordinance of the
City Council.
   (D)   The City Council recognizes the need for representation and advice
regarding legal matters for the city and finds that the appointment of a City
Attorney will best ensure the town a manner in which to provide for continuous
and competent representation. The City Council finds that this section is
required to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens and
government of the city.
(Ord. 2021-001, passed 3-23-2021)
§ 30.17 CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS; ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Two Council members shall be elected per ward from candidates that
reside in the ward from which the candidates seek to be elected.
   (B)   A.C.A. § 14-44-103(b)(1)(A) shall be adopted for the method of
election of City Council members.
   (C)   Both Council member Number 1 and Number 2 from each ward shall be
voted upon by the qualified electors of the city at large (citywide).
(Ord. 2021-015, passed 11-30-2021)
§ 30.18 RECORDER-TREASURER.
   (A)   The positions of Recorder and Treasurer for the city are to be
combined into one position called Recorder-Treasurer; the qualified electors of
the city shall elect said Recorder-Treasurer every four years on a cycle
commencing in 1972 in accordance with state statute.
   (B)   (1)   The Record Retention Policy and any and all amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. The
Record Retention Policy sets forth the requirements to properly preserve the
records of the city in a manner consistent with all pertinent state statutes.
      (2)   The Recorder-Treasurer shall retain and copy city records following
the requirement of the A.C.A. § 14-2-204 and these records will be maintained
and made available upon request per the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act
statutes, A.C.A §§ 25-19-101 through 25-19-110.
(Ord. 2026-011, passed 5-26-2026; Ord. 2026-013, passed 6-16-2026)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see A.C.A. §§ 14-44-114 and 14-44-115
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.30 ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The city’s Advertising and Promotion Commission is established.
   (B)   The city’s Advertising and Promotion Commission (“Commission”) is
hereby established. The said Commission shall be composed of seven members, as
follows.
      (1)   Four members shall be owners or managers of businesses in the
tourism industry in the city. The owner or manager may reside outside the city,
but shall reside within the county. At least three of the four shall be owners
or managers of hotels, motels or restaurants, and shall serve for staggered
terms of four years; two members of the Commission shall be members of the
governing body of the city, who shall be selected by the City Council, and
shall serve at the will of the City Council; and one member shall be from the
public at large, who shall reside in the city and shall serve for a term of
four years.
      (2)   The initial members of the Commission shall be selected as follows.
         (a)   The four tourism industry positions provided for in division (B)
(1) above shall be nominated by the Mayor and approved by a majority vote of
the City Council for staggered terms so that one member will serve for a term
of one year, one member will serve for a term of two years, one member will
serve for a term of three years; and one member will serve for a term of four
years. The industry positions will be allocated to the one-, two-, three- and
four-year terms based on Mayor decision.
         (b)   The two members of the Commission who are members of the
governing body of the city shall be selected by a majority vote of the City
Council.
         (c)   The at-large position provided for in subdivision division (B)
(1) above shall be selected by the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority
vote of the City Council.
      (3)   Vacancies on the Commission, whether resulting from the expiration
of a regular term or otherwise, in any of the four tourism industry positions
or the at-large position shall be filled by appointment made by the remaining
members of the Commission with the approval by a majority vote of the City
Council. The City Council may remove any member of the Commission by a two-
thirds vote upon 30 days’ notice of intent to take such vote and prior to such
vote occurring.
      (4)   Each member of the Commission shall file with the City Recorder-
Treasurer an oath as required by law in the state of public officials.
      (5)   Each member of the Commission will file with the City Recorder-
Treasurer a statement of financial interest as required by law in the state of
public officials.
   (C)   (1)   The Commission shall meet within two weeks of its appointment
and shall be organized by electing a Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer.
Thereafter, the Commission shall meet as often as may be necessary and shall
also be subject to special call by the Chairperson of the Commission. The
Commission shall meet at least quarterly.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the authority to employ the necessary
personnel to assist in the administration and operation of the city’s
Advertising and Promotion Fund or may contract with appropriate firms or the
city to perform functions of administration and operations.
      (3)   The Commission shall make quarterly reports to the Mayor and City
Council beginning three months after taking their office, reporting in full on
the operations of the Commission, including an accounting of receipts and
disbursements and shall, upon request of the Mayor or City Council, furnish
such other and further reports and data as may be required. The Commissioners
shall select a recognized auditing firm to submit an annual audit of the
operations of the Commission to the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 2024-005, passed 4-16-2024)
§ 30.31 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There shall be established for the city a Police Department, reporting
to the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor has the authority to staff the Police Department within the
constraints of the annual budget passed and approved by the City Council.
   (C)   If necessary, in lieu of staffing and equipping the Police Department,
the Mayor of the city is authorized to enter into a contract with the county to
have the County Sheriff Department provide law enforcement services.
   (D)   Said contract must be approved by the City Council prior to signing.
(Ord. 2022-012, passed 11-22-2022)
§ 30.32 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Title. The title of this board is “Holiday Island Board of
Adjustment”.
   (B)   Creation and appointment. The Holiday Island Board of Zoning
Adjustment (“Board of Adjustment”) is hereby established, which shall be the
five members of the Holiday Island City Planning Commission, appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council. Members of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment, prior to adoption of this change in membership, that are not
Planning Commissioners shall continue to serve to the end of their appointed
term on the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (C)   Organization. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to
the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of these
regulations. Meetings shall be held on a regular schedule, typically on the
same date as the Holiday Island City Planning Commission meeting, in keeping
with the adopted Planning Calendar, and at such other times as the Board of
Adjustment may determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board
of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its vote, indicating such fact, and it
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be a public record. A quorum of the Board of Adjustment shall three
members. The concurring vote of a majority of the total Board of Adjustment
members shall be necessary to revise any order or decision of the Building
Inspector, or to decide on any matter upon which it is required to pass. The
Building Inspector shall attend each meeting of the Board of Adjustment and
shall bring all plans, specifications, plats and papers relating to any case
before the Board of Adjustment for determination.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers
and duties prescribed by law and by these regulations, which are more
particularly described as follows:
      (1)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Building Inspector in the enforcement of these regulations. The
Board of Adjustment may affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, said decision
of the Building Inspector;
      (2)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal, in specific cases, such
variance from the terms of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship that would
deprive the owner of any reasonable use of the land or building involved. A
variance from the terms of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, shall not be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless and until:
         (a)   The applicant demonstrates that special conditions and
circumstances exist which are peculiar to the land, structure or building
involved and which are not applicable to other lands, structures or buildings
in the same district; that literal interpretation of the provisions of these
regulations would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district under the terms of these regulations; that
special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the
applicant; and that granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the zoning regulations to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or non-conforming use of
lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds
for the issuance of a variance;
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of land, building or structure;
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;
         (e)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards that it deems necessary or desirable. Any
prescribed conditions or safeguards for granting any variance shall become part
of the approved building permit. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of these regulations; and
         (f)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances in the district involved, or any use
expressly, or by implication, prohibited by the terms of these regulations in
said district.
      (3)   Special exceptions. In addition to the powers and duties specified
above, the Board of Adjustment shall also have the following powers and duties
to hold public hearings and decide the following special exceptions:
         (a)   Interpret zoning district boundaries, upon appeal of the
Building Inspector’s determination and where uncertainty exists, as to the
boundaries of the zoning districts, or when the street or property lines
existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the zoning district
map;
         (b)   Determine the amount of parking required for a use not listed
herein; and
         (c)   Vary the parking regulations by not more than 25% where it is
conclusively shown that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary
the parking spaces otherwise required by these regulations.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall
be first heard by the City Council in a public hearing.
(Ord. 2022-002, passed 1-18-2022; Ord. 2026-017, passed 8-17-2026)
§ 30.33 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to A.C.A. Title 14, Chapter 56, Subchapter 4,
as amended, the City Planning Commission is hereby created and shall be bound
by, and operate under, and in accordance with the requirements and conditions
of said statute.
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council.
Following the completion of adequate studies, through discussion and
appropriate public input and disclosure, the City Planning Commission
(“Commission”) shall submit recommendations regarding development and
redevelopment policies, general and specific plans, ordinances and regulations
to the Mayor and Council. It is the intent that this planning process be
continuous and that the Commission will be an ongoing part of the decision-
making process relative to development and redevelopment activity in the city.
Such studies and recommendations may be initiated by the Commission or may be
requested by the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   Composition, disclosures, terms, attendance and compensation of
Commissioners.
      (1)   Pursuant to A.C.A. § 14-56-404(a)(2), the City Council may elect to
allow the City Council to serve as the Commission and Zoning Board of
Adjustment by ordinance, approved by a majority vote of the elected City
Council members. Pursuant to A.C.A. § 14-56-406(a)(2), the Mayor shall then
serve as the Chair of the Commission.
      (2)   Alternatively, pursuant to A.C.A. § 14-56-404(a)(1), the members of
the Commission (“Commissioners”) shall be comprised of Commissioners, all
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. Four
Commissioners shall be appointed at large, of whom shall not hold any municipal
office or appointment, except membership on the Zoning Board of Adjustment. One
Commissioner may be appointed from the City Council members. All Commissioners
shall be residents of the city and continue throughout the first Commissioners,
from at large, shall remain in office and their terms of office shall be
revised by extending the ends of each of their terms to December 31.
Henceforth, Planning Commission members, that are appointed at large, shall
serve for a term of three years, ending on December 31. Planning Commissioners
will continue to serve beyond the end of their term until a Commissioner is
duly appointed to fill the position. Commissioners may serve more than one
term. The City Council member appointed to the Planning Commission shall serve
at the discretion of the City Council.
      (3)   All Commissioners must disclose annually all real estate holdings
in the city and in the city’s planning area, and any business or financial
interest which could affect, or be affected by decisions of the Commission. All
Commissioners are required to file an annual disclosure report with the City
Recorder-Treasurer pursuant to A.C.A. § 21-8-703, as may be amended from time
to time. No two Commissioners shall be related by blood or marriage in the
third degree, nor shall any two Commissioners have direct financial
involvement. All Commissioners shall have a demonstrated interest, experience
or expertise in land use planning.
      (4)   (a)   Terms of appointment shall begin on June 1. Commissioners
appointed at large, unless appointed to fill an unexpired term, shall be
appointed to serve a term of three years and may be reappointed to three-year
terms. The Council member appointed to the Commission shall serve for the
duration of term as City Council member and may be reappointed if re-elected.
All Commissioners whose terms may expire shall serve until their successors in
office have been appointed and confirmed by the City Council. Any position
vacated by a Commissioner shall be filled by the same procedure and for the
period remaining in the term of that Commissioner.
         (b)   The first at-large appointed Commissioners shall begin with
their appointments, as soon as practical, and have terms expiring as follows:
            1.   One Commissioner having a term that expires on 5-31-2022;
            2.   One Commissioner having a term that expires on 5-31-2023; and
            3.   Two Commissioners having terms that expire on 5-31-2024.
      (5)   (a)   Commissioners who fail to attend at least 70% of all meetings
of the Commission within a 12-month period of service shall be deemed to have
resigned from the Commission and that person’s position shall be deemed vacant
by the City Council.
         (b)   Such Commissioner may petition the City Council for
reinstatement by filing a letter with the City Recorder-Treasurer with ten days
after notification that the citizen’s position has been declared vacant and
explaining why extenuating circumstances justify reinstatement.
      (6)   The Commissioners shall serve on the city’s Planning Commission
without compensation.
   (D)   Commission meetings. Regular meeting dates, at least one to be held in
each calendar month, shall be established by the Commission and published in
the manner required by Arkansas Code provisions. The Commission shall adopt
rules for its own procedure. All meetings shall be open to the public and be
subject to Arkansas Code provisions for elected and appointed officials. An
accurate record of all meetings shall be kept, the original being filed in a
journal in the City Recorder-Treasurer’s office as a permanent record. Audio
recordings of all meetings shall be made and filed with the City Recorder-
Treasurer’s office.
   (E)   Secretarial services. A competent secretary shall be provided by the
city for the purpose of taking notes and other measures at all meetings of the
Commission and composing and typing them in order to construct an accurate
record of proceedings and actions. Said Secretary shall also assist the
Chairperson and others on the Commission in preparing reports, agendas,
correspondence, regulations and other documents or activities that are
essential to Commission business. The Secretary shall be under the direction of
the City Recorder-Treasurer.
   (F)   Appropriation of funds. The Commission cannot expend or encumber city
funds without the prior appropriation by the City Council or within the limits
granted the Mayor of the city.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 5-18-2021; Ord. 2023-019, passed 8-15-2023; Ord. 2024-
012, passed 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 31: FISCAL AFFAIRS; FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
31.01   Purchases
   
31.02   Municipal employees doing business in city
   
31.03   City credit card usage
   
31.04   Purchase of real estate
   
31.05   Electronic fund disbursement
§ 31.01 PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purchases of $35,000 or under. The Mayor or his or her duly authorized
representative shall have the exclusive power and responsibility to make
purchases of all supplies, apparatus, equipment, materials, services,
subscriptions, memberships and other things requisite for public purposes for
the city and to make all necessary contracts for work or labor to be done or
material or other necessary things to be furnished for the benefit of the city
or in carrying out any work or undertaking of a public nature where the amount
of the expenditure for any such purpose or contract does not exceed the sum of
$35,000.
   (B)   Purchases over $35,000. Where the amount of expenditure for any
purchase or contract exceeds the sum of $35,000, the Mayor or his or her duly
authorized representative shall invite competitive bids thereon by legal
advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. Bids received
pursuant to said advertisement shall be opened and read on the date set for
receiving said bids, in the presence of the Mayor or his or her duly authorized
representative. The contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder;
provided, however, the Mayor or his or her duly authorized representative, may
reject any and all bids received. All contracts must be approved by the City
Council.
   (C)   Approval to make payments. The Mayor, or his or her duly authorized
representative, may approve for payment out of any funds previously
appropriated for that purpose, or disapprove any bills, debts or liabilities
asserted as claims against the city, when funds on hand are adequate to pay
such bills, debts or liabilities. That payment or disapproval of any bills,
debts or liabilities not covered by a previous appropriation shall require
confirmation of the governing body.
   (D)   Competitive bidding. The requirement for competitive bidding is waived
as provided by A.C.A. §§ 14-58-104 and 14-58-303.
(Ord. 2023-017, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 31.02 MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES DOING BUSINESS IN CITY.
   The Mayor, Council members, elected officials, appointed commissioners and
municipal employees may conduct business with the city as authorized by A.C.A.
§ 14-42-107(b) under the following conditions:
   (A)   The purchase is under $10,000 and comparable merchandise or equipment
at comparable prices is not otherwise available; and
   (B)   The cost of the service is under $10,000 and comparable service at
comparable prices is not otherwise available.
(Ord. 2023-017, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 31.03 CITY CREDIT CARD USAGE.
   (A)   The Recorder-Treasurer is authorized to obtain credit cards in the
name of the city. The Recorder-Treasurer and Mayor will be the primary holders
of such credit cards, but are authorized to allow other city officials or
employees to use the card under close supervision and exclusively for
authorized city business.
   (B)   All applicable laws, city resolutions and ordinances and procedures
relative to making municipal purchases and accounting for those purchases apply
when making credit card purchases. A receipt documenting any credit card
purchase is required. The credit card billing statement is not satisfactory
justification of a credit card purchase.
   (C)   Credit card balances must be paid in full each month in order to avoid
deficit spending.
(Ord. 2023-017, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 31.04 PURCHASE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no purchase of real estate, with or
without improvements, shall be made by the City Council until an appraisal of
said property is made by a licensed appraiser.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this section to establish the price to be paid
for a tract of real estate by requiring that the real estate be appraised, but
rather to be used as an aid and guide by the City Council in arriving at a fair
and just price to pay for the real estate.
   (C)   The requirements of this section may be waived by the City Council in
cases of emergency or in cases where the City Council finds it impractical to
comply herewith.
(Ord. 2023-017, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 31.05 ELECTRONIC FUND DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   A municipal official or employee responsible for the disbursements for
the city shall have authority to disburse electronic funds payments directly
into payee accounts in financial institutions when necessary for payment of any
expense allowed against the municipality.
   (B)   The disbursement of the city funds shall include adequate supporting
documentation for the disbursement.
   (C)   The electronic funds payment method used by the city shall provide for
internal accounting controls and documentation for audit and accounting
purposes recommended by the state’s Legislative Audit-Information Systems Best
Practices.
   (D)   The electronic funds payment method established by this section shall
not be implemented unless it has been approved by the Legislative Joint
Auditing Committee.
(Ord. 2023-026, passed 10-24-2023)
CHAPTER 32: REFERENDUM PETITIONS
Section
   
32.01   Filing referendum petitions
   
32.02   Notice of publication; posting
   
32.03   Special election
   
32.04   Defeating ordinances and resolutions; procedure
§ 32.01 FILING REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   All referendum petitions under Amendment No. 7 to the Constitution of the
state must be filed with the Recorder within 30 days after the passage of any
ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 2021-009, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 32.02 NOTICE OF PUBLICATION; POSTING.
   Upon the filing of said referendum petition, the Mayor is hereby directed to
give notice by publication for one insertion in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the city and by posting in five public places in the city of a
time not less than five days after the publication of such notice at which the
City Council will hear all persons who wish to be heard on the question whether
such petition is signed by the requisite number of petitioners. At the time
named, the City Council shall meet and hear all who wish to be heard on the
question, and its decision shall be final unless suit is brought in the Circuit
Court of the county within 30 days to review its action.
(Ord. 2021-009, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 32.03 SPECIAL ELECTION.
   If the City Council finds that such petition is signed by the requisite
number of qualified petitioners, it shall order a special election to determine
by a vote of the qualified electors whether the ordinance or resolution shall
stand or be revoked, and fix a date which shall be not less than ten days after
the date of the action of the City Council calling the election. The Mayor
shall give notice of the call of such election by publication in not less than
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city and by
posting in five public places in the city not less than five days prior to the
date of the election. Such notice shall designate by its number, caption and
date of passage, the ordinance which has been referred to the people for
approval or rejection by their vote at such election. Otherwise, subject to the
provisions of Amendment No. 7 to the Constitution of the state and other
applicable laws, said election shall be conducted in the manner provided by law
for the conduct of a regular municipal election.
(Ord. 2021-009, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 32.04 DEFEATING ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   If any ordinance or resolution referred to the people is defeated at the
polls, the Council shall make note of such fact and shall expunge the ordinance
or resolution from its files by erasing the same with red ink.
(Ord. 2021-009, passed 8-24-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
   
50.01   Regulations created; contractor; franchise fee
   
50.02   Mandatory city collection service
   
50.03   Franchise fee
   
50.04   Definitions
   
50.05   Solid waste fees
   
50.06   Sign-up and payment of fees
   
50.07   Disposition of funds
   
50.08   Containers
   
50.09   Burning and dumping solid waste
   
50.10   Collection; bulky items; excluded and hazardous waste
   
50.11   Waste transport
   
50.12   Recycling
   
50.13   Inspectors
   
50.14   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 REGULATIONS CREATED; CONTRACTOR; FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   This regulation establishes a system for the collection and disposal
of solid waste for the city as required per A.C.A. §§ 8-6-201 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   The City of Holiday Island is a member of the Carroll County
Solid Waste Management District (CCSWMD). The County Solid Waste Management
District has, by statute, exclusive rights as stated in A.C.A. §§ 8-6-712 to
“Provide by rule or other legal means, that no person other than as may be
designated by the District, shall engage in the collection or utilization of
solid waste within the District which would be competitive within the purposes
or activities of the ‘District’.”
      (2)   The city engages the County Solid Waste Management District to use
its statutory authority within the city limits and will not license any
contractor or contractors not approved by the CCSWMD.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 MANDATORY CITY COLLECTION SERVICE.
   All structures in the city for which the Holiday Island Suburban Improvement
District provides a water meter or in which persons reside or where any
business, industrial, commercial or other enterprise is operated shall use the
refuse pick up services provided for by this chapter.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 FRANCHISE FEE.
   The City Council reserves the right to award an exclusive franchise for
residential and commercial services and to impose a franchise fee. In such a
case, no other person or entity except such franchisee contractor or his or her
licensee shall be permitted to convey or transport solid waste or recycle
within the city. Such franchise fee shall be payable according to terms set
forth in an agreement between the contractor(s) and the city. Franchise fees do
not apply to services considered to be supplemental per the CCSWMD.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT SERVICE FEE. A fee for customers that have “vacation” or “part-time”
homes will be charged a minimum monthly rate per the agreement with the
contractor.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A single detached dwelling designed for and occupied by two
or more families living independently of each other as separate housekeeping
units.
   BAGS, RESIDENTIAL. Any bag made of plastic, paper or other material that is
used to dispose of solid waste, that does not exceed 35 gallons in volume
capacity, nor 50 pounds in weight, when full and that can be tied shut to
contain solid waste.
   CAN, RESIDENTIAL. A trash can or solid waste storage container with a tight-
fitting lid that does not exceed 35 gallons in volume capacity, nor 50 pounds
in weight, when full, and that is used and owned by a residential solid waste
customer for the purpose of containing solid waste, whether loose, in
residential bags or extra bags as defined above.
   CITY. The municipal corporation and the geographic area within the City of
Holiday Island corporate limits.
   COMMERCIAL CONTAINER. A container that is designed to be mechanically tipped
for unloading, that is between two and eight cubic yards in volume capacity and
that is provided by the District. It is used to contain solid waste materials
on-site at the customer location prior to collection and transfer.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION (C&D) WASTES. Construction and demolition debris
such as building materials, wires, plumbing fixtures, lumber scrap, masonry
scrap, drywall, roofing and similar materials.
   COLLECTION AREA. The area or space in which customers place materials for
collection. Residential curbside COLLECTION AREAS must be located within five
feet of the traffic way used by the collection vehicle to service the customer.
Commercial and industrial COLLECTION AREAS shall generally be located on
private property. The customer is responsible for providing an area for waste
and for waste containers that will support the movement of District vehicles,
will permit all-weather access, and allows sufficient room for collection
vehicles to maneuver without undue hardship to the District.
   HAND LOADED SOLID WASTES. Commercial solid wastes in bags or in trash cans
which are not kept for collection in a Commercial Container as defined above
and that must be loaded by hand where space for a Commercial Container is not
available, or the volume does not justify the use of a Commercial Container.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Wastes, in any amount, which are defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate State Agency, by or pursuant to federal or state law, or wastes, in
any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law. For purposes of this
chapter, the term HAZARDOUS WASTES shall also include motor oil, combustible
fluids and materials, liquid paint, automotive batteries and waste tires.
   LOW VOLUME/ELDERLY/OR DISABLED ACCOUNTS. Residential accounts which by
reason of age, physical disability or similar problems, may be approved on a
case-by-case basis by the District for special pricing and services. Such a
residence shall have no more than two occupants whose household meets low-
income guidelines as established by the District and that produces minimal
quantities of solid waste (less than 15 gallons) per week.
   POLYCART. A wheeled plastic cart with an integral lid which is specifically
designed to work with District collection trucks, and which is provided to
customers by the District for the purpose of containing solid waste.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials such as newsprint, unwaxed corrugated
cardboard, office paper, clear glass bottles and jars, aluminum and steel cans,
scrap steel, plastic bottles, household hazardous wastes, tires or other
materials that are separated by customers to be diverted from disposal for
beneficial re-use.
   REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE (RMV). Waste generated in health care, research or
laboratory settings that can transmit infectious diseases. It includes
infections pathogens, blood-soaked materials, pathological waste, sharps and
isolation waste.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Any solid waste producer that lives in a structure
that is used primarily as living quarters, where a family or individual uses at
least 75% of the floor space for residential purposes, and where the structure
is not attached to another residence separated by a wall or doors that lock. A
duplex or building with two or more separate residences and with two or more
separate water meters, may be classified as “residential” for purposes of solid
waste pick up.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits of the City of
Holiday Island occupied by a person or persons comprising not more than one
family.
   SOLID WASTE. Any trash, food, refuse, container or other rubbish produced by
a residential or non-residential establishment that can be collected and
transported by the District and accepted by a landfill that is duly licensed
and approved by the State of Arkansas and that meets all applicable local,
state and federal laws.
   STREAMLINING. Companies or individuals who, as part of the service they
provide, streamline trash from several residential locations into one
container.
   WHITE GOODS AND BULKY WASTE. Includes common household appliances,
furniture, mattresses, tools, large toys or parts thereof that are too large to
be placed in a 35-gallon bag or can and that are larger than a bundle two feet
by four feet in size.
   YARD WASTE. Includes normal organic yard and garden refuse such as tree,
shrubs or brush trimmings, grass and other plant cuttings, dead plants, trees,
leaves and the like.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.05 SOLID WASTE FEES.
   Fee schedules for solid waste collection are to be set by and adjusted from
time to time within the parameters of the agreement with the contractor.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.06 SIGN-UP AND PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The contractor shall be responsible for collection of all fees.
   (A)   All customers as designated in §
50.02 must contact the approved Contractor(s) and select a desired level of
service.
   (B)   Any customer who shall remain at the premises and fail to or refuse to
pay all charges within the time provided for by the contractor, the payment
shall be deemed to be delinquent and in violation of this ordinance and subject
to the respective penalties specified in the ordinance. Plus, any delinquent
account penalties charged by the contractor.
   (C)   Residents of the city who own or manage a business located in the city
for which they provide a dumpster can utilize the business dumpster for their
residential trash and not have to sign up for residential service.
   (D)   Part-time residents who will not be at their residence on trash
collection day can utilize a dumpster provided by the city. Trash being put in
these dumpsters must contain a bag tag purchased from the city. The city will
advise as to the location of the dumpsters when purchasing the bag tags. The
city will maintain a record of bag tag purchases. Any part time resident
wishing to use bag tags must sign up for the service with the city.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All fines assessed and paid under the provisions of these regulations,
except those portions required to be paid out for other purposes, shall be
deposited in the city’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.08 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   All residential units shall set out solid waste and recycling for
collection by a contractor in approved containers. All loose waste material is
to be properly bagged and placed in approved containers in order to facilitate
the collection of materials without items being disbursed by blowing wind or
scattered by animals. Unless special arrangements are made, trash is to be
placed at the end of the drive after 5:00 p.m. on the day before collection and
trash containers are to be retrieved and stored no later than 10:00 p.m. on
collection day. This requirement applies to all trash items collected.
Violation of such requirement will result in one warning notice given by the
Code Enforcement Officer. After one notice is given to a resident, subsequent
violations will be referred to the Code Enforcement Officer, and the resident
will be subject to the penalties prescribed in this chapter.
      (2)   Permanently placing or leaving a trash container at the end of a
driveway is strictly prohibited unless approved by the City Code Enforcement
Officer. Such approval will require that the trash container be enclosed in a
structure that is substantially secured and anchored, prevents animals, birds
or weather from dispersing trash, does not block a ditch or impede road right
of way maintenance, does not create a litter problem, does not emit offensive
odors and the appearance of which is not detrimental to adjacent properties.
      (3)   Approval will be dependent on the degree of hardship associated
with placing and removing the trash container from the end of the drive on a
weekly basis. Simple inconvenience is not considered sufficient hardship.
   (B)   Commercial. Solid waste generated by a commercial or industrial
establishment or a multiple residential unit, business or combined units of
businesses (including B&Bs, VRBOs and other forms of short-term rentals) must
utilize a dumpster provided by the contractor. The dumpster is to be located
within the city. A business entity responsible for streamlining multiple
sources of waste into one dumpster must provide the city with a list of active
addresses being serviced. Overflow of the dumpster is expressly prohibited and
no other materials (paint cans, electronics, cardboard and the like) are to be
placed or stored in or around the dumpster.
   (C)   Dumpsters in residential areas. If a dumpster is to be kept in a
residential area it must be kept out of view of passing traffic and cannot emit
any offensive odor. Dumpsters must be kept closed such that rainwater, birds or
animals are prevented from entering the dumpster. Leaking of any liquid from
the dumpster to the ground is expressly prohibited.
   (D)   Part-time residents. Part time residents who will not be at their
residence on trash collection day can utilize a dumpster provided by the city.
Trash being put in these dumpsters must contain a bag tag purchased from the
city. The city will advise as to the location of the dumpsters when purchasing
the bag tags. The city will maintain a record of bag tag purchases and notify
the contractor accordingly. Any part time resident wishing to use bag tags must
sign up for the service with the city.
   (E)   Regular demolition and construction waste. Contractors hauling their
own construction or demolition waste (roofing, house construction and the like)
in their own containers, trucks or trailers must dispose of such waste at the
County Solid Waste District disposal site and demonstrate that the
transportation vehicle will adequately contain the debris during transit.
   (F)   Major demolition and other. Contractors that demolish and remove major
structures such as resulting from fire or condemnation must dispose of the
rubble as approved by the County Solid Waste District.
   (G)   Non-land fill debris and other uses. Construction or other debris that
does not require landfilling (dirt, rocks and the like) or moving non-waste
items (furniture, equipment and the like) and is being transported using a
dumpster or roll off container, are not bound by this chapter.
   (H)   Blocking of a roadway. At no time can a dumpster, roll-off container
or trailer be placed or parked on the road or in any way impede the flow of
traffic, the visibility of drivers at an intersection or the passage of
emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 BURNING AND DUMPING SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be a violation of these regulations for such owner, occupant,
tenant or lessee of any dwelling place, unit or business in the city, or any
other person, to dispose of solid waste or recycling waste, construction waste
and industrial waste, by dumping, burning or discharging said waste on any
property within the city except through the use of approved services as
provided for in these regulations or specifically authorized by state law or
authority. If a person is found to have disposed of solid waste in a manner not
allowed by ordinance, he or she shall be guilty of a violation of these
regulations and punished as provided for in these regulations.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 COLLECTION; BULKY ITEMS; EXCLUDED AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Collection. Collection schedules will be published by the hauler.
Notifications of changes to the schedule due to weather, holidays or any other
interruption will be made by the hauler.
   (B)   Bulky item collection.
      (1)   The following regulations governing the collection and disposal of
bulky waste are hereby adopted as follows: a special service shall be provided
for the collection and disposal of major appliances, furniture and other bulky
waste in accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   Residential customers of the city approved contractor are
allowed two curbside bulky item collections per year on days designated by the
contractor. Bulky item collection is limited to three items per pick up.
Apartment complexes and other multi-family housing units consisting of more
than four units shall not be eligible.
         (b)   All residential customers will be advised by the contractor of
the collection dates and times.
         (c)   Bulky waste shall not be placed curbside until the day prior to
the scheduled collection, but not later than 7:00 a.m. the day of collection.
All items must be placed within five feet of a city street and out of the
street/roadway. All items must be accessible to the collection vehicle and
shall not be obstructed by vehicles, mailboxes, trees/limbs or any other
physical barrier. There must be at least 20 feet of overhead clearance above
the items to be collected.
         (d)   All items must be separated and placed as instructed. Solid
waste items presently collected by the contractor shall not be mixed with bulky
items. Should solid waste be mixed in with bulky waste, no service shall be
extended. Excluded solid waste, extraordinary materials and hazardous waste are
prohibited from being collected and must be disposed of by the owner or
responsible party in an approved manner. The contractor reserves the right to
deny collection of any and all bulky waste item(s).
         (e)   This service will not be extended to persons who are not current
customers in good standing of the contractor providing the service.
      (2)   Fees may be billed for major appliances. Charges will be placed on
the residential customer’s monthly bill per the approved rates.
   (C)   Excluded and hazardous waste. The contractor shall publish a list of
white goods and bulky waste items that are acceptable for collection. The
contractor will also publish a list of electronic equipment and other excluded
materials or hazardous wastes that are not acceptable for pick up and inform
the residents of the proper disposal options.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.11 WASTE TRANSPORT.
   Any person operating any truck or other vehicle to transport litter, waste,
trash or garbage within the city shall take reasonable steps to prevent its
contents from blowing, dropping, falling off, or otherwise departing from the
vehicle or attached utility trailer. Such reasonable steps shall include a
secure cover or tarp if reasonably necessary to prevent the contents from
blowing, dropping, falling off or otherwise departing from the vehicle or
utility trailer. However, no vehicle hauling predominately metallic material
shall be required to be covered if it is loaded in a manner which will prevent
the material from falling or dropping from the vehicle or utility trailer.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 RECYCLING.
   Offering recycling services for items such as glass, plastics, cans, paper
and cardboard is required for any contractor. Non-recyclables shall not be
placed in the approved container for recycling. The contractor shall publish
and provide a list of all approved recycling items that are acceptable for
collection.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.13 INSPECTORS.
   The City Council shall have power to employ one or more Code Enforcement
Officers to ensure proper enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this ordinance and other
ordinances pertaining to the health and sanitation of the inhabitants of the
city, the health officers and employees of the county are hereby granted full
power and authority to act within said city and to perform all and singular the
duties of such health units on behalf of the city which they have under the
laws of the state and the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual found to be in violation of this chapter or disposing of
solid waste in a manner not permitted by this code or specifically authorized
by state law shall be guilty of a misdemeanor violation and subject to a fine
of no greater than the sum of $500 for any one specified offense or violation,
double that sum for each repetition of the offense or violation. If the
prohibited offense is, by its nature, continuous or ongoing in respect to time,
the fine or penalty for allowing the continuance thereof, in violation of these
regulations or ordinance, shall not exceed $250 for each day that it may be
unlawfully continued.
(Ord. 2026-009, passed 6-16-2026)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Administration and enforcement; Animal Control Department
   
90.03   Rabies control
   
90.04   Confinement of dogs
   
90.05   Running at large
   
90.06   Barking and howling dogs
   
90.07   Impoundment; disposition procedures; fees; reclamation procedures
   
90.08   Violations; notice and procedure
   
90.09   Animal abandonment; conditions; enclosures
   
90.10   Potentially dangerous and vicious animals
   
90.11   Exemptions
   
90.12   Farm animals and fowl
   
90.13   Hunting animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To desert, surrender, forsake or to give up absolutely.
   ALTERED DOG/CAT. Any dog or cat which has been surgically altered to prevent
conception.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT. The agency of the city having primary
responsibility for the implementation of this chapter hereinafter prescribed.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An officer employed by or under contract with the
city that is responsible for animal control operations in the city.
   AT LARGE. Any dog not confined, as hereinafter required.
   CABLE RUN. A metal cable that is mounted above ground at a designated height
to two stationary objects for the purpose of attaching a pulley system that
moves from one end of the cable to the other and to which a dog is tied or
secured by means of a rope, chain or cable attached to the dog’s collar or
harness.
   CAT. A member of the felis catus family normally considered to be the
domesticated type.
   COLLECTOR. The City Recorder-Treasurer or his or her duly authorized agent.
   DOGS. When used here shall include animals of all ages, both female and
male, which are members of the canine or dog family.
   HUMANE MANNER. Care of an animal to include, but not be limited to, adequate
heat, ventilation and sanitary shelter consisting of a structure with a dry
surface, four walls, roof and an entrance, wholesome food and access to fresh
water at all times. Veterinary care must be provided for any animal with an
injury or condition which causes it suffering.
   KENNEL. Any person, group of persons or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring five or more dogs.
   MUZZLE. When required by this chapter, a MUZZLE shall be of appropriate
material with sufficient strength to restrain a dog from biting and no such
MUZZLE employed shall be made from any material or maintained on the dog in any
manner so as to cut or injure the dog.
   NUISANCE. An animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on private
property other than the owner’s or public walks and recreation areas unless the
owner or the person in control of the animal immediately removes the feces and
disposes of it in the proper manner; causes unsanitary or offensive conditions;
causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noise-making; molests,
attacks or interferes with persons on private property or in the public right-
of-way; chases vehicles or attacks domestic animals.
   OWNER. Every person, firm, partnership or corporation, owning, keeping or
harboring a dog within the corporate limits of the city.
   PHYSICAL CONTROL. Being within an enclosed area of sufficient quality and
structure to secure the animal, or secured inside of a residence, or on a leash
or tether.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any dog or other animal that has shown a
propensity, tendency or disposition to attack without provocation and is able
or likely to inflict injury to another person or animal.
   PROPER CONFINEMENT OR ENCLOSURE. Securely enclosed, locked pen or structure
with at least 150 square feet of space for each animal kept therein that is
capable of preventing the animal from escaping.
   RABIES EXPOSURE. A dog or cat has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known
to have been infected with rabies.
   SWIVEL. Pivoting hardware that can be used in a trolley system to attach a
cable run to a tether or a tether to a dog’s collar or harness in order to
minimize twisting and tangling of the tether.
   TETHER. A rope, chain or cable that is attached to a dog’s collar or harness
for purposes of restraining the dog.
   TROLLEY SYSTEM. A method of restraining a dog which utilizes a cable run,
swivel and tether attached to a dog’s collar or harness.
   VACCINATION. An injection of any vaccine for rabies approved by the State
Veterinarian and administered by a licensed veterinarian or authorized agent.
   VICIOUS DOG or VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any dog or other animal that has bitten or
attempted to bite any person, or caused serious injury to another domestic
animal or livestock without provocation and is able or likely to inflict injury
to another person.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 90.02 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The primary responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter shall
rest with the Animal Control Department and its designated employees.
   (B)   The Animal Control Department shall be authorized and empowered to
adopt and promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper
to effectuate this chapter, under the direction of the Mayor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Interfere in any manner with any City Animal Control, Code
Enforcement or Police Department designated employee while they have in their
custody any animal;
      (2)   Remove from any designated city animal shelter any animal which is
in the custody of the city animal shelter unless authorized by a City Animal
Control employee; and
      (3)   Knowingly obstruct, impair or hinder, directly or indirectly, the
lawful performance of enforcement and animal services functions of any City
Animal Control designated employee.
   (D)   (1)   The City Code Enforcement, Animal Control and police officers
are hereby authorized to issue citations for any violations of the articles of
this chapter.
      (2)   If citations cannot be delivered in person, they shall be sent
certified mail and addressed to the owner of the dog, cat or other animal, if
known. If not known, then the citation will be issued to the property owner to
which the dog, cat or other animal belongs.
      (3)   The affidavit or testimony of the City Animal Control officer, Code
Enforcement Officer, police officer or their authorized agents, who delivered
or mailed such instructions, shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of
the instructions by the owner of the dog, cat or other animal.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Control Department shall, thereupon, be securely quarantined at the
discretion of the Animal Control Department for a period of ten days, and shall
not be released from such quarantine, except by written permission of the
Animal Control Department. At the discretion of the Animal Control Department,
such quarantine may be at the shelter designated as the “City Animal Shelter”
or, at the owner’s expense, in a veterinary hospital of his or her choice. In
the case of stray animals, or of animals whose ownership is not known, such
quarantine shall be at the City Animal Shelter.
   (B)   The owner, upon demand by the Animal Control Department, shall
forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or which is suspected
of having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine at the owner’s
expense. The animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies
upon payment of fees set forth in §
90.07(B)(4) of this chapter and upon compliance with licensing provisions set
forth herein.
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the Animal Control Department shall immediately send the head of
such animal to the state’s Health Department for pathological examinations and
shall notify the proper Public Health Officer of reports of human contacts and
the diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   (D)   When one or both reports gives a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
Animal Control Department shall contact the county’s Health Department for
instructions.
   (E)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any such animal that has
bitten a human, except as herein provided; nor shall any such animal be removed
from the city limits without written permission from the Animal Control
Department.
   (F)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrendered to the Animal Control Department.
   (G)   The Animal Control Department shall direct the disposition of any
animal found to be infected with rabies.
   (H)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when demand therefor is made by the Animal
Control Department.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
Animal Control Department his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her as a rabies suspect.
   (J)   No person shall own, keep or harbor or have control over any dog in
the city or obtain a license for any dog over the age of four months unless
said animal shall have been vaccinated with an anti-rabies vaccine. All such
dogs shall be vaccinated against rabies in accordance with A.C.A. § 20-19-305.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS.
   (A)   Any person owning, possessing or keeping a dog or dogs shall confine
such dog or dogs within his, her or their home or a proper confinement or
enclosure, as set forth within §
90.01 of this chapter, or by a proper trolley system as provided for in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Direct-point chaining or tethering of dogs to a stationary object is
prohibited. Dogs may be restrained by means of a trolley system, if the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   Only one dog may be tethered to each cable run.
      (2)   The tether must be attached to a properly fitting collar or harness
worn by the dog, with enough room between the collar and the dog’s throat
through which two fingers may fit. Choke collars and pinch collars are
prohibited from tethering a dog to a cable run.
      (3)   There must be a swivel on at least one end of the tether to
minimize tangling of the tether.
      (4)   The cable run must be at least ten feet in length and mounted at
least four feet and no more than seven feet above ground level.
      (5)   The length of the tether from the cable run to the dog’s collar
should allow access to the maximum available exercise area and should allow
continuous access to water, food and shelter. The trolley system must be of
appropriate configuration to confine the dog to the owner’s property, to
prevent the tether from extending over an object or an edge that could result
in injury or strangulation of the dog and to prevent the tether from becoming
entangled with objects or animals. The area where any animal is tethered must
provide proper and adequate drainage.
   (C)   At all times when not confined as stated above, the owner of any dog
or dogs shall confine such dog or dogs within an automobile, or the dog or dogs
shall be under the supervision and control of a person competent to control
such dog or dogs. Reference §
90.10 of this chapter for potentially dangerous dogs.
   (D)   (1)   Shelter.
         (a)   Dog owners within the city limits shall provide their dogs
continuous access to a structurally sound, moisture-proof and wind-proof
shelter large enough to keep the dog reasonably clean and dry.
         (b)   A shelter which does not protect the dog from temperature
extremes or precipitation, or which does not provide adequate ventilation or
drainage, shall not comply with this section.
         (c)   A dog’s shelter and bedding and other accessible space shall be
maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk of the dog contracting disease,
being injured or becoming infested with parasites.
      (2)   Nutrition.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or harboring any dog
to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such dog with clean, fresh, potable water
adequate for the dog’s size, age and physical condition. This water supply
shall be either free flowing or provided in a removable receptacle that is
weighted or secured to prevent tipping.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or harboring any dog
to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such dog with wholesome foodstuff
suitable for the dog’s physical condition and age and in sufficient quantities
to maintain an adequate level of nutrition for the dog.
   (E)   Dog owners who do not clean-up after their animals can be fined per §
90.99 of this chapter. This law applies to any public property, public right-
of-way or private property without the permission of a private property owner.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person owning, possessing or keeping a dog shall allow the same to run at
large within the city.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 BARKING AND HOWLING DOGS.
   It shall be hereinafter unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep
on his or her premises, or under his or her control, any dog which by loud and
frequent barking and/or howling shall disturb the peace and quiet of any person
who may reside within reasonable proximity of the place where such dog is kept.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION PROCEDURES; FEES; RECLAMATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   The Animal Control Department shall take into custody any dog
found at large in the city and shall impound the dog in the City Animal Shelter
or such other place as the Animal Control Officer may designate for purposes of
impoundment. Such impounded dog may be held for a period of five business days
at the end of which the dog may be made available for adoption. During these
five business days of such impoundment, the Animal Control Officer may make
diligent effort to determine the owner of such dog and notify them of such
impoundment. If the owner of such dog fails or refuses to claim and repossess
such dog by the payment of the proper fee as prescribed herein within the five
business days of such impoundment, then the dog becomes the property of the
city and the Animal Control Officer may deliver custody and possession of such
dog to any person deemed appropriate upon the payment of the fee as prescribed
in division (B)(5) below.
      (2)   When dogs are found running at large, and their ownership is known
to the agents of the Animal Control Department, such dogs need not be
impounded, but the agent may, in his or her discretion, issue a warning or cite
the owners of such dogs to appear in court and to answer to charges of
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Domesticated animals other than dogs and cats shall be impounded
when found running at large within the city limits and disposed of in
accordance with law.
      (4)   Immediately upon impounding other animals, the agent of the Animal
Control Department shall make every possible effort to notify the owners of the
animals so impounded and inform them of the conditions under which they may
regain custody of such animals.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person, household, or residence to own
or harbor a public nuisance animal. Public nuisance animals shall include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Any animal that is repeatedly found running at large;
         (b)   Any dog or cat in any section of a public park or public
recreation area unless the dog or cat is under the control of and accompanied
by the owner or his, her or their designee;
         (c)   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any
private property other than that of its owner;
         (d)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or
offensive odors from unsanitary conditions and thereby creates unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
         (e)   Any animal in-heat that is not confined so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals;
         (f)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that,
without provocation, molests, attacks or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of- way;
         (g)   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
         (h)   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
         (i)   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single
residence or the inadequacy of the facilities;
         (j)   Any community cat colony within the corporate city limits, which
has not had all cats sterilized or vaccinated; and
         (k)   Any animal, which by loud or frequent noise, may disturb the
peace and quiet of any person who may reside within reasonable proximity of the
place where the animal is kept. Any claim of excessive noise must be validated
by the city’s Animal Control Officer or Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   (1)   Any person owning, possessing or keeping a dog which has been
allowed to run at large and which has been impounded may claim and retrieve
such dog from the city animal shelter by providing payment of the fees herein
set forth and proof that the dog has been vaccinated within the year preceding
such impounding and is currently licensed if required by law. The burden of
proof, as to vaccination and licensing, shall be upon the party attempting to
claim the dog from the Animal Control Officer under this chapter. Any person
claiming unvaccinated or unlicensed dogs shall, after payment of the fee
assessed herein, and prior to release of the dog, have the dog vaccinated and/
or licensed if the animal is released to his, her or them.
      (2)   Any dog, cat or other animal impounded as a result of a citation
for being a public nuisance may not be redeemed unless such redemption is
authorized by a court having jurisdiction.
      (3)   When, in the judgment of the Animal Control Department or its
agents, any animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not
be redeemed.
      (4)   Any animal impounded hereunder may be reclaimed upon payment by the
owner to the Animal Control Department, the sum of $20 for each animal dog or
cat, plus $10 for each day such animal, dog or cat is kept, both before and
after the expiration of the legal impoundment period. Fees may be reduced at
the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
      (5)   Any animal unwanted or unclaimed by owner may be adopted by payment
of fees per animal shelter policy.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 90.08 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Animal Control Department, or persons employed by such
departments, are hereby authorized to give to the offender a notice to appear
in the Judicial District Court, Eureka Springs, AR. Such notice to appear shall
state the name and address of the violator and the date of the violation, shall
contain a statement of the nature of the violation and shall be signed by the
person having knowledge of such violation who is also a member of one of the
departments of the city before mentioned.
   (B)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, any agent of the Animal Control Department is
empowered to enter upon any premises upon which a dog is kept or harbored and
to demand the exhibition by the owner of such dog of the rabies license for
such dog. Any agent of the Animal Control Department may enter the premises
where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to
examine such animal and to take possession of such animal when, in the opinion
of the agent, it requires treatment.
   (C)   No person shall interfere with any animal control worker by use of
force, trickery or deceit, or threaten use of force or otherwise intimidate or
attempt to intimidate or otherwise frustrate or thwart the work of any Animal
Control worker who may be carrying out or attempting to carry out his or her
normal and reasonable duties hereunder.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Department to keep or cause
to be kept the following:
      (1)   Accurate and detailed records of the licensing, impoundment and
disposition of all animals coming into its custody;
      (2)   Accurate and detailed records of all interactions with residents of
the city as set forth in divisions (B) and (C) above; and
      (3)   Accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported to it, and
its investigation of the same.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 90.09 ANIMAL ABANDONMENT; CONDITIONS; ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to abandon
any dog, cat or other animal within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation keeping or
harboring dogs or other animals to fail to keep the premises where such dogs or
animals are kept free from offensive odors and contagious diseases to the
extent that such odors or contagious diseases are disturbing or a health threat
to any person residing within reasonable proximity of the said premises; and it
shall be unlawful to allow premises where such dogs or other animals are kept
to become unclean and a threat to the public health by failing to diligently
and systematically remove all animal waste from the premises.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor a vicious dog or other
vicious animal within the corporate limits of the city, except as specified
below. It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within
the corporate city limits, except while transporting to a veterinarian office
(restrained and muzzled) within the corporate city limits:
      (1)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic animal,
including, but not limited to, non-human primates, skunks, foxes and wild and
exotic cats; but excluding fowl, ferrets and small rodents of varieties used
for laboratory purposes;
      (2)   Any animal having a poisonous bite; and
      (3)   Any animal that exhibits fierce or vicious behavior or that has
attacked a person or animal with such severity as to cause physical injury or
property damage. However, the fact that an animal has attempted to bite a
person when that person provoked or teased it shall not constitute the animal’s
being a vicious animal.
   (B)   Initiation of official action.
      (1)   Upon receipt of first allegations that a specific animal is a
potentially dangerous animal, an Animal Control Officer shall provide to the
owner written notice of the general content of the allegation and a copy of
this section.
      (2)   Upon receipt of subsequent complaints that the same animal has
exhibited further behavior of a potentially dangerous animal, or upon first
allegations that an animal is a vicious animal, or upon observing that an
animal displays characteristics of a potentially dangerous animal or vicious
animal, an Animal Control Officer shall determine whether the animal is a
potentially dangerous or vicious animal, which determination may be made based
upon the officer’s own observations and/or the results of any investigation
into the animal’s behavior.
      (3)   In making the determination, an Animal Control Officer shall
provide the owner with the opportunity to respond to the allegations, and may:
         (a)   Interview any person with knowledge of the animal;
         (b)   Inspect the animal, as permitted by law or by the owner; and
         (c)   Undertake any other reasonable inquiry, including without
limitation obtaining the opinion of a licensed veterinarian.
      (4)   It is a defense to the determination of an animal as vicious or
potentially dangerous and to the prosecution of the owner of an animal:
         (a)   If the threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who at
the time was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the animal;
         (b)   If the person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
animal or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have teased,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal;
         (c)   If the person was committing or attempting to commit a crime;
         (d)   If the domestic animal killed was at the time teasing,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal;
         (e)   If the animal was protecting or defending a person within the
immediate vicinity of the animal from an attack or assault;
         (f)   If the animal was injured and responding to pain; or
         (g)   If the animal was protecting its offspring, itself or its kennel
mates.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter, except where otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   The licensing and vaccination requirements of this chapter shall not
apply to any dog belonging to a non-resident of the city and kept within the
city for not longer than 30 days; provided, all such dogs shall, at all times,
while in the city, be kept within a building or proper confinement or enclosure
or be confined by the owner as herein provided.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to a guide dog, service dog or hearing dog
accompanying any person with a disability.
   (D)   Dogs that are used regularly for law enforcement purposes shall not be
subject to this section or §
90.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 FARM ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   Farm animals and fowl are not permitted, except as in §
90.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   No wild animals may be kept within the city limits, except under such
conditions as shall be fixed by the Animal Control Department; provided,
however, that, wild animals may be kept for exhibition purposes by circuses,
zoos and educational institutions in accordance with such regulations as shall
be established by the Animal Control Department. Large cats, dangerous
reptiles, circus animals or other exotic or potentially dangerous animals are
prohibited within the city limits.
   (C)   (1)   Hobby chickens are permitted per §
152.163 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control of any
chickens, turkeys, geese or other fowl to allow the same to run at large within
the city.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 HUNTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit hunting within the
corporate limits of the city to ensure the safety and well-being of all persons
and property.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      BAITING. Providing a food source to attract certain wild game to a
location for hunting.
      BOW. Any device designed to shoot arrows, including compound bows,
recurve bows and crossbows.
      FIREARM. Any device designed to expel a projectile by the action of an
explosive.
      HUNTING. The act of pursuing, shooting, killing, trapping or capturing
wildlife by any means.
   (C)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in hunting, or to
discharge a firearm, bow or other projectile weapon, for the purpose of hunting
within the city limits other than on lots or parcels zoned as Rural Wooded
(RW).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, distribute
or cause to be placed any salt, grain, fruits, nuts, minerals or other food or
attractant for the purpose of luring, enticing or concentrating deer for
hunting or taking.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers acting in the course of their official
duties;
      (2)   Licensed animal control officers or agents acting under city
authorization; or
      (3)   A person who is lawfully acting in self-defense or in defense of
another person as provided by state law.
(Ord. 2026-014, passed 5-26-2026) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any portion of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50, nor in excess of $5,000, and, if the violation
continues, each day shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating §
90.13 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not exceeding $500
for each offense.
(Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-28-2024; Ord. 2026-014, passed 5-26-2026)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisance Abatement; Property Maintenance
   
91.01   Purpose and applicability
   
91.02   Code Enforcement Officers; authority; inspections
   
91.03   Certificates, licenses and permits; revocation
   
91.04   Notice of violation
   
91.05   Ownership transfer
   
91.06   Condemnation procedures
   
91.07   Emergency procedures
   
91.08   Definitions
   
91.09   Property maintenance; conditions
   
91.10   Abatement; vacation structures or services
   
91.11   Placarding
   
91.12   Prohibited occupancy
   
91.13   Burning brush and yard waste; exceptions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCE ABATEMENT; PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 91.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Whereas A.C.A. §§ 14-54-901 et seq. empowers cities to order the owner
of lots and other real property within their towns or cities: to cut weeds; to
remove garbage, rubbish and other unsightly and unsanitary articles and things
upon the property; and to eliminate, fill up or remove stagnant pools of water
or any other unsanitary thing, place or condition which might become a breeding
place for mosquitoes, flies and germs harmful to the health of the community
and A.C.A. §§ 14-54-901 et seq. empowers cities to order owners of property to
keep said property maintained such that it does not create a nuisance or
endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the citizens, these
regulations are created and shall be known as the “Holiday Island Nuisance
Abatement and Property Maintenance Regulations”.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to ensure public health, safety and
welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance
of structures and premises within the city.
   (C)   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all residential and
non-residential structures and all premises within the city and constitute
minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures, life safety,
safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
Structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required
herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to and change of occupancy in existing
buildings shall comply with the state’s Fire Prevention Code. Where different
standards or requirements are imposed by these regulations and other competent
authority or by different sections of this code, the most restrictive standard
or requirement shall govern.
   (D)   Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by these
regulations or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or required shall be maintained in good
working order. No occupant shall cause any required service, facility equipment
or utility to be removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied
dwelling, except for temporary interruptions necessitated by repairs or
alterations. The requirements of these regulations are not intended to prove
the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.02 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; AUTHORITY; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   These regulations shall be enforced by all Code Enforcement
Officers of the city. For the purposes of these regulations, a CODE ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER shall be defined as any city employee who has been authorized to uphold
the ordinances of the city and laws of the state related to property uses,
maintenance, nuisances, inspections, certifications and licensing and the like,
within the municipal boundaries of the city. The regulations may also be
enforced by any and all duly sworn law enforcement officers of the city and the
county. Therefore, a POLICE OFFICER EMPLOYED BY THE CITY shall include law
enforcement officers of the county who provide law enforcement services to the
city pursuant to a contact with the county and the County Sheriff.
      (2)   All Code Enforcement Officers shall carry proper identification and
present the same upon request when performing duties under these regulations.
      (3)   Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out
the provisions of these regulations, the Code Enforcement Officer shall have
the authority to grant modifications for individual cases; provided, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall first make written findings that a special condition
or circumstance exists such that the strict letter of these regulations is
impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose
of these regulations and that such modification does not lessen health, life
and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications
shall be recorded and entered in the Department files.
      (4)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Code Enforcement Officer charged
with enforcement of this code, it is determined upon investigation that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists within the city, such officer
shall issue a written notice in accordance with this regulation, to the person
committing or maintaining such nuisance or the owner of the property or both,
requiring such person to remedy and abate the nuisance.
      (5)   Nothing in these regulations shall be construed as requiring the
city to enforce the regulations in these regulations against:
         (a)   Alleged violations determined to be frivolous complaints;
         (b)   Alleged violations lacking in substantive evidence to constitute
a nuisance;
         (c)   Alleged violations where the evidentiary value of the alleged
violation is not enough to support a conviction in court; or
         (d)   Violations which may occur and are not recognized by the city
due to the lack of availability of the resources.
   (B)   (1)   Code Enforcement Officers are authorized to enter structures or
premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional restrictions
on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not obtained, the
officers may pursue such search authorizations as are provided by law.
      (2)   Code Enforcement Officers shall make all of the inspections
required by these regulations. All reports of such inspections shall be in
writing by the responsible officer. Code Enforcement Officers are authorized to
rely upon a responsible expert opinion as the officer deems necessary to report
upon unusual technical issues that arise.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.03 CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure for the
revocation of various certificates, licenses and permits issued by the city.
The certificates, licenses and permits subject to revocation under this code
are those relating to the particular or general use of property; including,
without limitation and for the purpose of illustration only: certificates of
occupancy, zoning variances, business licenses, sign permits, building permits,
construction/electrical/plumbing inspection approvals, conditional use permits,
special use permits and the like.
   (B)   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to initiate
administrative revocation of any such certificate, license or permit, if he or
she has a reasonable belief that the use of the property or structure:
      (1)   Poses a danger to the health and welfare of the public;
      (2)   Threatens property or safety of any citizen;
      (3)   Violates the terms and or scope of the certificate, license or
permit; or
      (4)   Lacks compliance with applicable city/state licensing laws and
requirements.
   (C)   The non-emergency administrative revocation of a certificate, license
or permit shall follow the procedures of notice and determination provided in
in this regulation.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to issue a
temporary emergency order in conjunction with notice of an administrative
revocation as described in this subchapter. The temporary emergency order shall
have the effect of prohibiting all activity that may be harmful to the public
or any person and suspending any certificate, license or permit authorizing the
same. The Code Enforcement Officer may issue a temporary emergency order when
he or she has a reasonable belief that the use of the property or structure:
      (1)   Poses an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of the
public; or
      (2)   Threatens the life of or poses an imminent danger of serious injury
to any citizen.
   (E)   Service of temporary emergency orders may be made by any Code
Enforcement Officer upon the owner, manager, employee or occupant of a
structure that is subject to the provisions of this regulation. If no one is
located at the structure, the temporary emergency order shall be affixed to the
structure and written notice shall proceed according to §
91.04 of this chapter. All notices for this division (E) shall clearly state
“Temporary Emergency Order” and conform to the requirements of §
91.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   The City Council may revoke a special use, conditional use or any
other authorization to use property or conduct business that violates the terms
of the use or threatens the property or safety of any citizen, or is
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the public. Such a revocation
may be performed at any regular or special meeting of City Council with notice
as required by law. The revocation shall be based upon the report of a Code
Enforcement Officer, complaint of a citizen or sua sponte action by City
Council.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   A “notice of violation” shall be written on standardized or letter
form approved by the Code Enforcement Officer that shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the owner, if known;
      (2)   An address or description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Date, time and a description of the violation or violations
observed. Attach photo or video evidence if appropriate;
      (4)   A statement that citations may be issued and fines assessed in
addition to any administrative remedy imposed by the city;
      (5)   Include a statement that the city has a right to cause repairs or
demolition to be made and that the costs may be assessed against the owner and
the property of the owner; and
      (6)   The information required by A.C.A. § 14-54-903, if applicable.
   (B)   Administrative notices (such as a notice of violation) shall be issued
by any person authorized under A.C.A. § 14-54-903 and shall comply with
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice by mail shall be sent to the owner’s address of record with the
applicable County Treasurer or Collector. When sent to the proper address with
proper postage, notice by mail shall be deemed properly served without regard
as to whether the owner or occupant accepted the mail or the mail was otherwise
returned.
   (D)   The notice of violation requirements of this section shall not apply
to the issuances of citations. Issuance of citations must comply with the
procedures described in §
91.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.05 OWNERSHIP TRANSFER.
   After receiving a notice of violation, it shall be unlawful for the owner of
any property or structure to sell, transfer, mortgage and lease or otherwise
alienate or dispose of the same until:
   (A)   The property or structure has been caused to conform with these
regulations; or
   (B)   The owner shall provide the other party a true copy of any notice of
violation issued by a Code Enforcement Officer and shall furnish to the Code
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the other party
accepting responsibility for the property or structure.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 CONDEMNATION PROCEDURES.
   The following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Keeping condemned structures prohibited. It shall be and it is hereby
declared to be unlawful for any person or persons, partnership, corporation or
association, to own, keep or maintain any house, building and/or structure
within the corporate limits of the city, which constitutes a nuisance and which
is found and declared to be a nuisance by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Condemnation. Any such house, building and/or structure which is found
and declared to be a nuisance by resolution of the City Council will be
condemned to ensure the removal thereof, as herein provided.
   (C)   Notices. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
publication, mailing or delivery of all notices required to condemn structures.
      (1)   Prior to the consideration of a resolution or order by the City
Council declaring any house, building and/or structure as a nuisance, the owner
(s) and any mortgagee(s) or lienholder(s), of such house, building and/or
structure shall be mailed written notification of the date, time and place that
the City Council will consider said resolution. In addition, said notice shall
inform the owner(s) and any mortgagee(s) or lienholder(s), of the right to be
heard at the City Council meeting on the proposed resolution or order declaring
such house, building and/or structure to be a nuisance.
      (2)   Should the owner(s) and mortgagee(s) and/or lienholder(s) of any
such house, building and/or structure be unknown or his, her or their
whereabouts be unknown or if he, she or they do not reside in Arkansas, then a
copy of the written notice shall be posted upon said premises and the City
Recorder-Treasurer or Clerk, or designee, shall make an affidavit setting out
the facts as to unknown address, unknown whereabouts and/or non-resident status
of said owner(s), mortgagee(s) and lienholder(s). Thereupon, service of
publication as now provided for by law against unknown and/or non-resident
defendant(s) may be had and an attorney ad litem shall be appointed to notify
such persons by registered letter addressed to their last known place(s) of
residence or business.
   (D)   Resolution information. The resolution of the City Council condemning
any house, building and/or structure which constitutes a nuisance will include
in said resolution an adequate description of the house, building and/or
structure; the name(s), if known, of the owner(s) and mortgagee(s) and/or
lienholder(s) thereof; and shall set forth the reason or reasons said house,
building and/or structure is or has been condemned as a nuisance.
   (E)   Posting. After a house, building and/or structure has been found and
declared to be a nuisance and condemned by resolution as herein provided, a
true and certified copy of said resolution will be mailed to the owner(s) and
mortgagee(s) and/or lienholder(s) thereof, if the whereabouts of said owner(s)
and mortgagee(s) and/or lienholder(s) thereof be known or his, her or their
last known address be known, and a copy thereof shall be posted at a
conspicuous place on said house, building and/or structure; provided that, if
the owner(s) and mortgagee(s) and/or lienholder(s) of said house, building and/
or structure be unknown or if his, her or their whereabouts or last known
address be unknown, the posting of the copy of said resolution as hereinabove
provided will suffice as notice of the condemnation.
   (F)   Removal. If the house, building and/or structure constituting a
nuisance has not been torn down and removed, or said nuisance otherwise abated,
within 30 days after posting the true copy of the resolution at a conspicuous
place on said house, building and/or structure constituting the nuisance, it
will be torn down and/or removed by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her
duly designated representative.
   (G)   Saleable material. The Code Enforcement Officer or any other person or
persons designated by him or her to tear down and remove any such house,
building and/or structure constituting a nuisance will ensure the removal
thereof and dispose of the same in such a manner as deemed appropriate in the
circumstances and, to that end, may, if the same have a substantial value, sell
said house, building and/or structure, or any saleable material thereof, by
public sale to the highest bidder for cash, ten days’ notice thereof being
first given by one publication in some newspaper having a general circulation
in the city, to ensure its removal and the abatement of the nuisance. In the
absence of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city, the city may
make such notice by posting notice of the public sale in the five locations
designated for posting ordinances in the city.
   (H)   Proceeds. All proceeds of the sale of any such house, building and/or
structure, or the proceeds of the sale of saleable materials there from and all
fines collected from the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid by the
person or persons collecting the same to the City Recorder-Treasurer. If any
such house, building and/or structure, or the saleable materials thereof, be
sold for an amount which exceeds all costs incidental to the abatement of the
nuisance (including the cleaning up of the premises) by the city, plus any fine
or fines imposed, the balance thereof will be returned by the City Treasurer to
the former owner or owners of such house, building and/or structure
constituting the nuisance.
   (I)   Liens. If the city has any net costs in removal of any house, building
or structure, the city shall place a lien on the personal property or real
estate property as provided by A.C.A. § 14-54-904.
   (J)   Fine. See §
91.99(B) of this chapter.
   (K)   Judicial declaration. In the event it is deemed advisable by the City
Council that a particular house, building and/or structure be judicially
declared to be a nuisance by a court having jurisdiction of such matters, the
City Council is hereby authorized to employ an attorney to bring such an action
for said purpose in the name of the city, and the only notice to be given to
the owner(s) and mortgagee(s) and/or lien holder(s) of any such house, building
and/or structure sought to be judicially declared to be a nuisance will be that
as now provided for by law in such cases in Circuit Court. When any such house,
building and/or structure has been declared judicially to be a nuisance by a
court of competent jurisdiction, a fine of $100 is hereby imposed against the
owner(s) thereof from the date said finding is made by the court and for each
day thereafter said nuisance be not abated constitutes a continuing offense
punishable by a fine of $100 per day.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.07 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, whenever, in the
opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, there is imminent danger due to an
unsafe condition, the Code Enforcement Officer shall order the necessary work
to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Code
Enforcement Officer deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (B)   When necessary for public safety, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work
shall be paid by the city. The City Attorney shall institute appropriate action
against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was located
for the recovery of such costs.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. Where terms are not
defined through the methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have
ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies. Whenever the words
“dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”, “building”, “rooming house”, “rooming
unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are stated in this code, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, regardless of whether wrecked or
inoperable, which is left on public or private property, for a period of more
than 72 hours, without approval from the property owner to place the vehicle
upon such property.
   APPROVED. Consented or agreed to in writing by the Code Enforcement Officer
or his or her proper designee.
   ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE. Abandoned refrigerators, freezers, unfenced deep
diggings, unfenced swimming pools or other conditions that would attract and be
harmful to children.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes.
   BOAT. Any vessel initially designed for the carrying of passengers or cargo
upon the water, whether currently seaworthy or not, and regardless of size or
design, including, without limitation, barges, motorboats whether inboard or
outboard, canoes, rowboats, rafts and sailboats.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure providing space for the parking of motor
vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee who has been authorized to
uphold the ordinances of the city related to property uses, maintenance,
nuisances, inspections, certifications and licensing etc and the like within
the municipal boundaries of the city. All duly sworn law enforcement officers
of the city and the county’s Sheriff Department are authorized to exercise
authority as CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for human occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure forming
a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation by a household or family.
   EASEMENT. The portion of land or property reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serves as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating and
trapping or by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   FIRE LANE. The area within any public right-of-way, easement or private
property designated for fire trucks and other firefighting or emergency
equipment to use, travel upon and/or park.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure, or design that is marked, etched,
scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed to or on any structural
component of any building, structure or other permanent facility regardless of
the nature of the material of that structural component, or the nature of the
inscription, to the extent that the same was not authorized in advance by the
owner, or otherwise deemed to be a public nuisance.
   GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and
similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
   HISTORIC. Any existing buildings or structures designated by the city, the
state or the United States government to be HISTORIC.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, uninsured,
wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under
its own power. Such vehicle is also considered an abandoned vehicle if left on
public or private property without authorization from the property owner for a
period in excess of 72 hours.
   LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine of conveyance which is self-propelled and designed
to travel along the ground, and includes, but is not limited to, automobiles,
buses, electric scooters, mopeds bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, tractors, go-
carts, golf carts, motor homes.
   NUISANCE. This term is defined in §
91.09 of this chapter.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not defined as “public property” in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property in the city which is owned by a
governmental body and includes buildings, parking lots, parks, streets,
sidewalks, rights-of-way, easements and other similar property.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated for public use.
   REMOVAL. The act of clearing all material and debris whenever it becomes
necessary to demolish any building that has been condemned and found to be a
nuisance by resolution of the City Council.
   RESIDENCE. A structure serving as a dwelling or home. For the purposes of
this subchapter, the term RESIDENCE includes dwelling units and rooming houses.
   ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. The portion of the land extending from the front property
line of any given lot or parcel, across and including the road surface, to the
front property line of the opposing lot or parcel. ROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY apply to
both city or HISID roads.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation. Bed-and-breakfasts, boarding houses, half-way houses
and hotels, vacation rentals, vacation rentals by owner, timeshares as those
terms are defined under Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, are included
within the definition of a ROOMING HOUSE.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage;
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar trash materials.
   SQUATTING. The unlawful occupancy of any building or piece of land.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal, but not a bathtub
or shower.
   TRAILER. Any freewheeling object designed or intended to be pulled or towed
behind a motor vehicle, regardless of whether wrecked or inoperable, and
regardless of whether currently inspected and/or registered, including, without
limitation, the following: boat trailers, camper trailers, cargo trailers,
special trailers for items such as golf carts or motorcycles, utility trailers
and farm implements.
   TRASH. Any item worth little or nothing: such as things that are no longer
useful or wanted and that have been thrown away.
   UNCUT WEEDS AND GRASS. See §
91.09 of this chapter.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner (e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work).
   WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto an unexpired license plate and the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, incapable of operation by its own
power on a public street, or from which the wheels, engine, transmission or any
substantial part thereof has been removed.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.09 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum conditions
and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment
and exterior property.
      (2)   The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and
exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise
provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or
permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe
condition and which do not comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible
for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling
unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they occupy and
control.
      (3)   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
   (B)   Exterior property areas. The following minimum standards are to be
maintained.
      (1)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained
in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of
the exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (2)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained
to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water thereon, or within any structure located thereon.
      (3)   Illegal dumping. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to drop, dispose of, throw, toss or otherwise deposit leaves,
paper, debris, brush, limbs, grass or other similar articles in road or other
drainage ditches, in curbs and along the gutters of city streets or roads in
the city.
      (4)   Sediments and mud. All public roadways shall be kept clean of
sediment and soil erosion from soil disturbing activities.
         (a)   Abatement. Any person engaging in soil disturbing activities
within the city limits shall be required to implement measures to minimize the
tracking of sediments and mud onto adjacent streets and roadways by vehicles
leaving the site.
         (b)   Exclusions. The following activities are specifically excluded
from the requirements of this subchapter: emergency street, storm drainage or
utility repairs. The following properties are specifically excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter: approved retention areas and reservoirs.
         (c)   Clean-up. If a soil disturbing activity creates a violation, the
violator shall clean up the material daily or as frequently as needed to avoid
a hazard or nuisance. If an activity is found in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter, the city’s appointed representative shall issue a “cease and
desist” order for all activities on the site until the appropriate clean-up
measures are implemented and provisions are made to prevent additional
pollution. The city’s approval of construction, building permit approvals,
payments, release of payments or bonds and final approvals shall also be
withheld or revoked until a violation is corrected and appropriate sediment
control measures are in place.
         (d)   Fine. See §
91.99(B) of this chapter.
      (5)   Grass or weeds. Grass or weeds shall not exceed eight inches in
height in all zoning districts. This restriction will not apply to:
         (a)   Property that is undeveloped and is in its natural vegetative
state;
         (b)   Portions of developed properties that are not adjacent to
roadways, sidewalks, parking areas or other spaces that would be accessible to
the public; and/or
         (c)   Areas specifically designated or recognized by the city, the
Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District, the State or the United States as
wetlands, open spaces, natural or wild flower areas or other designated
preservation areas.
      (6)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be
kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be
injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be
taken to eliminate rodent harborage and prevent re-infestation.
      (7)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
      (8)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
      (9)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no motor vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major
disassembly, disrepair or in the process of being stripped or dismantled.
Painting of motor vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved
spray booth.
      (10)   Inoperable, abandoned vehicles.
         (a)   Storage of inoperable or abandoned vehicles. No person shall
park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving of any motor
vehicle, and/or trailer of any kind, which is wrecked or inoperable, whether
attended or not, upon any private property within the city, except as allowed
by the following exceptions:
            1.   Any subject item parked or stored within a building or
enclosed garage on private property;
            2.   Any subject item held in connection with a business enterprise
lawfully licensed by the city for servicing and repair of subject items and
properly zoned operated in an appropriate business zone pursuant to the zoning
ordinances of the city;
            3.   Subject vehicle within a carport that is being actively
repaired on at least a weekly basis. Subject vehicles and its parts when not
being repaired shall be neatly and completely covered with an opaque cover; and
            4.   Inoperable vehicles deemed inoperable only due to not having
current vehicle license plate or vehicle registration tag, may be stored in a
covered carport.
         (b)   Authorized removal of inoperable motor vehicles. Code
Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to remove inoperable motor
vehicles on private property 30 days after written notice has been affixed to
the subject item. Such notice shall state that the subject item is a nuisance
and order whoever has an interest in the subject item to remove the item from
the property. If such nuisance is found upon private property, in addition to
the foregoing notice, a copy of such shall be placed on the residence or
business. The presence of such subject items on private property is hereby
declared a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this code. Any inoperable vehicle sitting on city streets or road
shoulders can and will be removed immediately at owner’s expense.
         (c)   Exception. A motor vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo
major overhaul, including body work; provided that, such work is performed
inside a structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such
purposes.
   (C)   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs. Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and in good repair. See
A.C.A. § 14-54-901.
   (D)   Exterior structure.
      (1)   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare or to negatively impact the values of surrounding
properties.
      (2)   Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position
to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the
property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers
shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of
three inches in height on residential structures and shall be a minimum of four
inches in height on commercial structures.
   (E)   Rubbish and garbage.
      (1)   All exterior property and premises of every structure shall be free
from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
      (2)   Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of all rubbish in
compliance with
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances, as it is amended or replaced from time
to time.
      (3)   Appliance/furniture and similar equipment not in operation shall
not create an attractive nuisance and shall not be discarded, abandoned or
stored on premises outside of any enclosed building such as storage shed or
accessory building or commercial or residential unit.
   (F)   Sanitary drainage system. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly
connected to a public sewer system. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer
line shall function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and
defects.
   (G)   Blocking of access for fire and emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Blocking or obstructing the clear passage of fire and emergency
vehicles is strictly prohibited. Due to the width of city roads, the parking of
any vehicle, trailer, boat, equipment or material on any city or HISID road for
extended periods is strictly prohibited unless permission is obtained from the
city. Additionally, in order to provide emergency equipment and personnel
access to structures, the parking of vehicles, trailers, boats, equipment or
materials including construction materials in the road right-of-way is
prohibited, except for in areas paved for or improved as a driveway.
      (2)   Exceptions include mail and parcel delivery vehicles, construction
or yard maintenance vehicles or equipment, or service vehicles such as Water
Department, trash collection, cable company or power company. If a vehicle will
be blocking a traffic lane for longer than it takes to make a delivery, safety
cones/triangles must be properly placed.
      (3)   Vehicles that have broken down in or along a roadway will be given
a reasonable amount of time to be moved at the discretion of the Code
Enforcement Officer.
      (4)   Vehicles, trailers, boats, equipment or materials found to be
blocking such access can be immediately removed at the owner’s expense by the
Code Enforcement Officer or a County Sheriff Department officer.
   (H)   Nuisances.
      (1)   It is the intent of this subchapter to prevent and abate nuisances
within the municipal boundaries of the city. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the word NUISANCE is defined as any act, omission or property
condition that is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the public
in that it:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (e)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cause, permit,
maintain or allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
      (3)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting
to be or remain on any public or private property of any of the following
items, conditions or actions is hereby declared to be and constitute a
nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed
to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;
         (b)   Accumulations or storage of rubbish, garbage, materials, metals,
lumber, tires and other trash materials;
         (c)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes
and other vermin;
         (d)   Dilapidated structures;
         (e)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises;
         (f)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
         (g)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;
         (h)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal
or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
         (i)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted,
performed or maintained;
         (j)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on
any lot or piece of ground;
         (k)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
         (l)   Graffiti;
         (m)   Inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles;
         (n)   The use of tarpaulins, canvas, plastic, oil cloth, sheeting and
other similar materials as fencing or to shield or enclose any structure,
garden or work space (including, without limitation, openings for windows,
doors, walls, roofs, garage doors or carports), except when temporarily
necessary to perform repairs under a properly issued building permit;
         (o)   Construction materials not currently in use that is creating an
unsightly or unhealthy condition;
         (p)   Unattended camper, trailer or boat, one not attached to an
operable motor vehicle, that is causing an unsightly condition and/or is not in
good repair or is creating an attractive nuisance;
         (q)   Human waste and/or contents of portable septic systems upon any
land, ditch, waterway or surface pools; and
         (r)   Parking or storing campers, boats, trailers, vehicles, storage
containers, building materials or other equipment on an unimproved residential
or commercial lot is prohibited.
   (I)   Unsightly appearances.
      (1)   Uncut weeds, grass and other unsightly and unsanitary articles. All
property owners and occupants within the municipal boundaries of the city are
required to cut weeds and grass, remove garbage, trash, rubbish and other
unsightly and unsanitary articles and things from their property, and to
eliminate, fill up or remove stagnant pools of water or any other unsanitary
thing, place or condition which might become a breeding place for mosquitoes,
flies and germs harmful to the health of the community. For specific
requirements related to the required maintenance of grass and weeds, refer to
division (B)(5) above.
      (2)   Nuisance structures. Any building or other structure which is in
such a dilapidated condition that it is unsafe or unfit for human habitation or
kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health or
safety of people residing in the vicinity thereof or presents a more than
ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located shall
constitute a nuisance.
         (a)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to
be dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
conditions due to abandonment or lack of maintenance, or, unsafe equipment or
is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty
construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is
possible.
         (b)   Unfit structure for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for
human occupancy whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds that such structure
is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in
disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains
filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or
heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this subchapter, or
because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of
the structure or to the public.
         (c)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole
or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted by city ordinance, or
was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 ABATEMENT; VACATING STRUCTURES OR SERVICES.
   (A)   Authorized abatement. If the owner of any lot or other real property
within the city shall neglect or refuse to remove, abate or eliminate any
condition, violation or prohibition as may be provided for in this subchapter,
after having been given a notice of violation with seven days’ notice in
writing to do so by the appropriate city official, the city is hereby
authorized to do whatever is necessary to correct the condition, including, but
not limited to, entering upon the property and having such weeds, rank grass or
other vegetation cut and removed, or eliminating any unsanitary and unsightly
condition, or causing necessary repairs to be made and charging the cost
thereof to the owner of such premises, which shall constitute a lien thereon.
The above mentioned seven days’ notice shall be calculated by counting the
first day of the seven-day period as the day after written notice is given to
the owner, by counting every calendar day, including weekends and holidays, and
by establishing the deadline to take the above required actions as 11:59 p.m.
on the seventh day. Condemnations shall follow the procedures established in §
91.06 of this chapter. The city reserves the right to secure a priority clean-
up lien, pursuant to A.C.A. § 14-54-903.
   (B)   Vacating of unfit or unsafe structures and utility services. Any
dwelling or dwelling unit declared as unfit for human habitation or unsafe by
the Code Enforcement Officer as so designated and placarded by a Code
Enforcement Officer, shall be vacated within seven days after notice of such
action has been given by the Building Inspector to both the owner and occupant
of the building. On the eighth day after said notice, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify all utility services that no such services shall be
provided to the dwelling or dwelling unit. After utility services are cutoff no
further services shall be made available until a rehabilitation permit is
obtained or until the Code Enforcement Officer notifies utilities that service
may be provided to the dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 91.11 PLACARDING.
   (A)   Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the
notice of violation for a nuisance structure or equipment within the time
given, the Code Enforcement Officer shall then post on the premises or on
defective equipment a placard bearing the word “NUISANCE” and a statement of
the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or
removing the placard.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall remove unfit for human habitation
or unsafe structure placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person
who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code
Enforcement Officer shall be subject to the penalties provided by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 PROHIBITED OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be vacated as ordered by the Code Enforcement Officer. Any person
who shall occupy placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and
any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall let anyone
occupy placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be liable for
the penalties provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   Squatting, camping or in any way occupying a recreational vehicle,
camper, motor vehicle, tent or any temporary protective structure on any lot/
parcel or public property within the city boundaries is strictly prohibited,
except in designated managed campgrounds or as allowed in other city
ordinances. Parking or storing campers, boats, trailers, vehicles or other
equipment on an unimproved residential lot is prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 BURNING BRUSH AND YARD WASTE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   From and after the passage and publication of this subchapter,
property owners are allowed to burn brush and yard waste (leaves) under the
following qualifications and restrictions.
   (B)   Prior to lighting any fire, it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to notify the office of the city’s Fire Department. No fire,
once lighted, shall be left unattended. No fire shall be permitted which
proposes to burn construction related items.
      (1)   Burning, with the exception of recreational or ceremonial fires
(see division (B)(8) below), will be allowed only between 7:00 a.m. to 4:30
p.m. No fires are to be started after 12:00 p.m.
      (2)   Burning will be allowed by individuals and businesses in
incinerators conforming to the state’s Air Pollution Control Code as amended by
the Department of Pollution Control and Ecology of the state, adopted pursuant
to Part II of the state’s Water and Air Pollution Control Act, being A.C.A. §§
8-4-101 et seq.
      (3)   No old tires or tar papers can be used as starting fuel or burned
in any manner whatsoever.
      (4)   All brush and leaves are to be accumulated in small piles so that
it can be burned completely between the hours set forth above.
      (5)   Small piles as aforesaid must be placed in the center of a clear
area at least 25 feet from any homes or any other type buildings.
      (6)   The fires shall be attended at all times by at least one person who
must have with him equipment sufficient enough to extinguish the fire in the
event it begins to spread, and such person shall remain with the fire until it
is completely consumed and extinguished.
      (7)   No fires will be started on windy days, during extremely dry
weather or when there is a burn ban in force.
      (8)   That persons desiring to build a recreational or ceremonial bonfire
may do so in conformity with the rules elsewhere herein set out after approval
of the site, the material to be burned and all other matters considered
important by the Fire Chief of the Holiday Island Suburban Improvement
District. Said approval must be received prior to igniting the fire from the
Fire Chief or his or her approval designee.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If upon inspection a violation is determined to be present, the
Code Enforcement Officer will make notification of said violation per §
91.04 of this chapter. Violations are declared to be misdemeanors. It shall be
unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in conflict with or in
violation of any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.13 of this chapter. Any person who is convicted of a violation of §§
91.01 through
91.13 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation shall
be deemed a strict liability offense.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, any person, firm or corporation
violating any of §§
91.01 through
91.13 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of no less
than $50 and no more than $500. Subsequent violations of related offenses may
be double of the previous offense up to the maximum allowed by state law. If
the violation is continuous in nature, each day such violation shall be
permitted to continue shall be considered a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such up to the maximum allowed by state law.
      (3)   Sworn enforcement officers of the city or the county’s Sheriff
Department are hereby authorized to issue citations to any person, firm or
corporation in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.13 of this chapter. Issuances of citations must comply with the state’s
Rules of Criminal Procedures. The Third Judicial District Court serving the
county and the city shall have exclusive jurisdiction over citations issued
pursuant to §§
91.01 through
91.13 of this chapter.
      (4)   Any person after being found guilty of a violation or after
entering a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a violation shall have those
appellant rights granted under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 6-18-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   General license requirements and property management
   
110.02   Fee schedule
   
110.03   License issuance
   
110.04   License suspension and revocation
   
110.05   Appeal to City Council
   
110.06   Nuisances
   
110.07   Inspections
   
110.08   Conflicts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Licenses.
      (1)   General businesses.
         (a)   A business license shall be required for any person, firm,
individual or corporation that engages in, carries on or follows any trade,
business, profession, vocation or calling in the city, including any business,
occupation, institution, corporation, entity, sole proprietorship or other
entity which operates within the city limits unless exempt by state law.
         (b)   A business or entity with multiple physical addresses in the
city must obtain a separate business license for each such business address,
except for exceptions in §
110.02 of this chapter.
         (c)   In addition, any person or non-governmental entity who is
engaged in any trade or occupation which requires federal or state licenses and
who operates in the city shall be required to file for the city’s license,
except as noted in divisions (A)(1)(d) and (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) below. A
copy of the federal or state license must be provided with the business license
application.
         (d)   Any person, firm, individual or corporation who pays a license
fee in another city in the state is exempt from obtaining a city business
license unless said person, firm, individual or corporation maintains a
physical address in the city.
      (2)   Religious entities. Churches and other religious institutions are
exempt from this chapter unless they are performing functions like daycare that
must be licensed by the state or that generate revenue upon which state sales
or use taxes must be paid. The city business license shall not be required for
the religious entity, but only for those functions that require a state license
or upon which state sales or use taxes must be paid.
      (3)   Non-profit entities. No organization operating in good standing
with the IRS and state as a 501c3 non-profit entity shall be required to obtain
a city business license.
      (4)   Minors exempt. No individual under 18 years of age shall be
required to obtain a business license. Minors are prohibited from leasing,
advertising, managing or any other activity unless he, she or they are an
emancipated minor.
      (5)   Multiple businesses. Unless expressed otherwise, any person or
entity engaged in two or more business types at any one address/location shall
pay the license fee for only the type bearing the highest calculated fee.
      (6)   Out-of-town contractors. Any out-of-town contractor doing work
within the corporate limits of the city must show proof of a valid business
license from the local government where his, her or their business is located.
If he, she or they fail to produce a license from another locality, he, she or
they must purchase a business license from the city.
      (7)   Verification of sub-contractors license. All builders and
contractors shall verify that all subcontractors doing work for them on any
projects within the corporate limits of the city possess a valid business
license before the work is performed.
      (8)   Event coordinator. For-profit events such as a farmer’s market, the
event coordinator must have a business license and provide the city with a list
of vendors. The individual vendors do not need a business license to
participate in the event. Not-for-profit community service events (for example,
July 4 community picnic) or events where the proceeds go to charity (example,
the Chili Cookoff) do not need a business license.
   (B)   Property management.
      (1)   Long-term residential property rental. A property owner, whether or
not they are operating as an individual, a corporation, LLC, LLP or other
business entity, who rents out two or more long-term dwelling units must obtain
a business license.
      (2)   Short-term rentals, owner-operated. A property owner, whether or
not they are operating as an individual, a corporation, LLC, LLP or other
business entity, who operates and manages one or more short-term residential
rentals must obtain a business license after receiving a conditional use permit
issued by the city. A separate license and A&P tax permit is required for each
address.
      (3)   Residential property management company.
         (a)   A company that:
            1.   Through a leasing agreement with a property owner, sublets and
manages the property as a short-term rental and/or rents said property long
term;
            2.   Operates company owned properties as short-term or long-term
rentals; or
            3.   Operates a combination of sublet and company owned properties
as short-term or long-term rentals.
         (b)   A residential property management company must obtain a business
license for the management company, plus a license for each address that it
manages as a rental in the city. The management company must also obtain an A&P
tax permit for each short-tern rental location.
      (4)   Timeshare management company.
         (a)   A timeshare unit is defined as a residential unit that is
partitioned into 51 more or less saleable weeks as timeshares. A timeshare
management company must obtain a timeshare management company business license
with a fee based on the number of saleable and/or sold weeks (for example, a
quadplex with 51 weeks each = 204 weeks).
         (b)   If the management company uses the unsold weeks as timeshares,
the management company, in lieu of the timeshare license, must obtain a
business license as a management company plus a license and an A&P tax permit
for each unit.
      (5)   Commercial property management company. A property owner, whether
or not they are operating as an individual, a corporation, LLC, LLP or other
business entity, who owns commercial space to be rented or leased to tenants
must obtain a business license.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see A.C.A. § 26-77-102(b)
§ 110.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
Code Type Fee Basis
Code Type                                  Fee   Basis
General Business
a    Home based business                   $25
b    Supermarket                           $200
c    Convenience/variety/chain store       $150
d    Gas station                           $150
e    Hotel/motel                           $5    Per rental unit
f    Apartments/assisted living/nursing    $10   Per dwelling unit
     home/live in rehabilitation facility
g    Marina                                $100
h    Manufacturing                         $0.05 Per interior square feet
i    Bank                                  $150
j    Storage units                         $5    Per unit
k    Storage yard                          $50   Per 1/4 acre
l    Contractor (building/general/sub)     $50
m    Health/wellness/medical/pharmacy/     $50
     veterinary services
n    Restaurant under 20 seats             $50
o    Restaurant over 20 seats              $100
p    Peddlers – not fireworks            $50
q    Peddlers-fireworks                    $200
r    Food truck                            $50
s    Animal boarding/daycare               $2    Per animal capacity
t    Thrift store                          $50
u    Retail liquor                         $100
v    Meeting rooms/event space             $100
w    Event coordinator                     $50   See below
x    Campgrounds                           $5    Per rental space
y    All other                             $50
Property Management
z    Long-term residential property rental $25   Per dwelling
aa   Short-term rental, owner-operated,    $50   Per unit
     individual address license
     Residential property management
bb   company
        Management company              $50
        Individual address license      $50   Per unit
cc   Timeshare management company only     $1    Per saleable or sold week/unit
     Timeshare and short-term rental
dd      Management company              $50
        Individual unit license         $50   Per unit
 
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.03 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Annual application required. Every applicable business or other entity
identified in §
110.01 of this chapter shall annually complete the application for business
license and pay the appropriate fee as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Time for application submittal. New businesses, businesses locating to
the city or entities to which these provisions become applicable in the future
shall obtain their business license within two months of their move into the
city or commencement of activities. All annual license renewal requests are due
a minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration date of the current license.
   (C)   Issuance of business license.
      (1)   The Recorder-Treasurer or designee shall promptly issue a business
license to any applicable business or entity which properly completes the
application for business license, pays the proper fee and is not ineligible for
a business license because of prior suspension or revocation of the license,
lack of a required state or city permit or violation of state law or city
ordinance.
      (2)   The business license is not transferable nor assignable. Upon the
sale, merger or transfer of business ownership, the new owner must apply for a
new business license within 30 days of the date of transfer or reopening of the
business.
      (3)   If the Recorder-Treasurer initially refuses to issue a business
license, the applicant shall be entitled to a due process hearing before the
Mayor concerning the grounds for refusal to issue the license. An applicant can
appeal the Mayor’s decision to the City Council in the same manner prescribed
for an appeal of the Mayor’s decision to suspend or revoke a business license.
      (4)   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the
premises and building are to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with
the ordinances and regulations of the city. No such license shall be issued for
the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would involve a
violation of the zoning ordinance of the city or for any individual, entity or
corporation that is in arrears to the city for any fine or fee owed.
   (D)   Display of business license. Every business and other entity receiving
a business license shall prominently display the business license near any
other license required for the business and issued by a government entity. The
business license shall be displayed where customers or visitors entering the
establishment will be able to view the business license. Occupations and trades
such as electricians, contractors, mobile services such as dog grooming and the
like must have verification of a business license with them on the job.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.04 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds that could support suspension or revocation of business
license.
      (1)   Valid complaints that the business license holder is operating the
business in a dangerously unsanitary or unhealthy manner, or in such manner as
to affect the peace, health or safety of neighbors or the public unreasonably
and adversely.
      (2)   The determination that the premises are a fire hazard or otherwise
unsafe for occupancy because of violations of building, property maintenance or
fire codes.
      (3)   The business is delinquent in submitting hotel, motel and
restaurant or city alcohol tax forms or in payment of the city’s hotel, motel
and restaurant taxes or any other city or state taxes or required fees, if any.
      (4)   The business is being operated in violation of any federal or state
law or city ordinance or has had a necessary state or city license suspended or
revoked.
      (5)   The business license was procured through fraud or
misrepresentation.
   (B)   Notification. If the Code Enforcement Officer has reason to believe
that grounds exist that could justify the suspension or revocation of a
business license, the officer shall mail a letter to the business mailing
address shown on the application by first class mail and copying the city’s
Recorder-Treasurer notifying the business owner of the possible grounds to
suspend or revoke the license and setting a due process hearing in not less
than five, nor more than ten business days. The officer shall also telephone
the business owner using the business phone number provided on the application
(as well as the emergency phone number if the owner cannot be reached on the
business phone number) and provide the same information as is within the
letter. The failure of the business owner to receive the mailing or the phone
calls made pursuant to this provision shall not affect the validity of the due
process hearing.
   (C)   Conduct of the due process hearing.
      (1)   The Mayor shall provide a reasonable date, time and space for the
due process hearing and shall receive evidence from city employees or others
about the grounds to suspend or revoke the business license.
      (2)   The business license holder shall then be granted an opportunity to
explain or provide evidence to rebut any allegations and to show why the
business license should not be suspended or revoked.
      (3)   After the business license holder has had a reasonable opportunity
to explain his or her side, the Mayor can do one of the following depending
upon the Mayor’s judgment of the seriousness of any proven ground:
         (a)   Revoke the business license;
         (b)   Suspend the business license for not more than 30 days;
         (c)   Place the business on probation status for not more than 90 days
on condition that the grounds causing the problems will be remedied by the
business license owner and not be allowed to reoccur. If the business license
owner complies with the probation, the probation status shall be lifted, and no
further action shall be taken. If the Mayor determines that the business
license owner has failed to correct the problems or new grounds for suspension
or revocation have occurred, the Mayor shall conduct a second due process
hearing and consider all previous evidence whether or not the business license
should be suspended or revoked; and
         (d)   Refuse to revoke or suspend the license which shall remain
valid. Any complaint about events leading to the hearing shall not be
considered again.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.05 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person or entity whose license has been suspended or revoked pursuant to
§
110.04 of this chapter or was denied a business license upon application, may
appeal such suspension, revocation or denial to the City Council by providing
the Recorder-Treasurer’s office with a written request for City Council review
within ten business days of the issuance of the suspension, revocation or
denial. The City Council may then determine, after a public hearing in which
the business license owner may present evidence and explanations, whether the
business owner’s license should be suspended for not more than 30 days, revoked
because of the grounds presented or that no suspension or revocation is
warranted or whether the business owner will be granted additional time to
secure their business license.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.06 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to
constitute a nuisance in fact.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are required by ordinance or
by state or county law or regulation, it shall be the duty of the licensee or
person in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit any official
authorized to conduct such inspection. Such inspections may include but are not
limited to Fire Department, Code Enforcement and Building Code Enforcement.
   (B)   A fire safety inspection is required for a first time application for
a business license for a short- term rental or any other business that will be
accessed by the public. On-going inspections will be done on a frequency as
determined by the Fire Department. For commercial businesses, the city’s Fire
Department will use a “commercial fire inspection form”. Businesses that will
be accessed by the public are required to be Americans with Disabilities Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., compliant. Short-term rentals inspections
will be conducted by the Fire Department utilizing the “short-term rental
inspection” checklist.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.08 CONFLICTS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to alter, change or regulate in any
unlawful way any business, trade, occupation, profession or vocation regulated
or governed by laws of the state when such laws conflict with the provisions
herein.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   If the business license provided for in this chapter is not paid within 30
days after such becomes due, it is hereby declared as delinquent and a penalty
of $20 will be added to the total outstanding balance. In the event the license
is not paid within 60 days, an additional $20 penalty will be added to the
total outstanding balance; and, in addition, the person, firm, partnership,
company or corporation who has failed to pay his, her or their license fee
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in the sum of $250 and each
day of such offense shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2025-003, passed 9-16-2025)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Liquor by the drink; on-premises sale and consumption
§ 111.01 LIQUOR BY THE DRINK; ON-PREMISES SALE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The sale of liquor by the drink at restaurants, which meet the
definition of a restaurant as found in Title 4, Subtitle B, § 4.6 of ABC
regulations, and said establishments have obtained the required ABC permit
allowing for the sale and consumption of liquor by the drink on premises, is
hereby authorized within the city limits. The definitions of the terms of this
section shall be consistent with those found in A.C.A. §§ 3-1-101 et seq.
   (B)   All such sales shall be permitted seven days a week between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., unless more restrictive hours are specified in
A.C.A. §§ 3-1-101 et seq.
   (C)   The city recognizes that the sale and consumption of alcohol by the
drink is thoroughly regulated by the state, and nothing in this section shall
contradict the laws of the state in the most current state code and/or the
regulations of the ABC.
(Ord. 2023-021, passed 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 112: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Permit application and renewal
   
112.04   Conditions precedent to permit issuance
   
112.05   Occupancy limits and restrictions
   
112.06   Violations
   
112.07   Maximum number of active permits issued
   
112.08   Timeshares
   
112.09   Future modifications
   
112.10   Conditional use for short-term rental
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   OWNER-OCCUPIED, SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The owner of the residential dwelling
unit occupies a portion of the structure containing the short-term rental at
the same time as the short-term rental guests.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A residential dwelling unit, portion of a dwelling unit,
or bedroom(s) within a residential dwelling unit, leased or rented to guests
for a period of less than 30 consecutive days. For purposes of this regulation,
the term SHORT-TERM RENTAL shall not include properties or units subject to
timeshare arrangements, unless those timeshare units are being rented on a
short-term basis to non-timeshare property owners and comply with §
112.08 of this chapter.
   TIMESHARE. Estate plans where shared ownership of dwelling units, as
controlled by A.C.A. §§ 18-14-301 et seq., are managed by a supervisory
authority to control the aspects of the timeshare plan, including the
promotion, advertising and contracting.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 112.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A short-t erm rental shall not be operated, except upon issuance of a
conditional use permit for short-term rental by the city’s Planning Commission,
in accordance with the requirements of §§
152.125 through
152.128 of this code of ordinances. Said permit is non-transferable. Said
permit shall be subject to review along with a business license renewal for any
violations to these conditions, planning and zoning regulations and all other
ordinances, codes and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Said permit shall be effective so long as compliance has been
satisfactory and the business or individual to which the conditional use permit
was issued maintains a city business license and a City Advertising and
Promotion Commission tax number. The conditional use permit for short-term
rental may be revoked at any time by city officials or any court of competent
jurisdiction, for violations.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any requirement of these conditions to the contrary,
properties within the city for which a building permit has been issued may,
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, be granted an initial
conditional use permit for short-term rental as provided herein upon
application. Said permit shall be counted toward the maximum permits to be
issued as provided in §
112.07 of this chapter. Any such property shall comply with all other
applicable requirements, including the payment of an application fee. The
granting of a conditional use permit for short-term rental pursuant to this
division (C) shall not be deemed to permit occupancy of a structure prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, nor shall it be deemed to supersede
or abrogate any requirements of the state’s Fire Prevention Code with regard to
construction.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 PERMIT APPLICATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   An application for the issuance of a conditional use permit for short-
term rental shall be on a form approved by the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee.
   (B)   The application shall require the applicant to provide the following:
      (1)   The address of the short-term rental property; the name, address,
telephone number and email address of the property owner and, if different from
the property owner, the name, address, telephone number and email address of a
person who shall serve as a local point of contact who shall reside within 50
miles of the short-term rental property;
      (2)   Proof that the applicant is in compliance with the state, county
and city for collection of state, county and local sales taxes;
      (3)   Proof that an A&P tax permit application has been submitted with
the initial conditional use permit for short-term rental application;
      (4)   Proof that the applicant is in compliance with Chapter 50 of this
code of ordinances for trash collection at the short-term rental address;
      (5)   Proof that a business license application has been submitted with
the initial conditional use permit for short-term rental application;
      (6)   A renewal application for conditional use permit for short-term
rental shall be submitted with the business license renewal application; and
      (7)   (a)   Short-term rental not owner-occupied: payment of a one-time
conditional use application fee of $150; and
         (b)   Short-term rental owner-occupied: payment of a one-time
conditional use application fee of $50.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 112.04 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application fulfilling the requirements of §
112.03 of this chapter, and prior to conditional use permit for short-term
rental issuance, the applicant shall agree that:
   (A)   In the event that a safety complaint is made against the property, an
inspection performed by the City Code Enforcement Officer, City Building
Inspector, Fire Chief and/or law enforcement will be required;
   (B)   The short-term rental shall have posted within the structure, in a
clearly visible location, a copy of the conditional use permit for short-term
rental, the contact information, to include a telephone number and address for
the local point of contact for the short-term rental. Additionally, recommended
placed in an appropriately labeled binder, a copy of
Chapter 91 of this code of ordinances, the requirements of §§
91.09(G) and
152.195(B)(2)(b) and a notice to all persons that guests, local points of
contact or property owners may be cited and fined for violations of applicable
city ordinances; and
   (C)   In addition to the restrictions defined in §
152.195 of this code of ordinances, due to the narrow width of the streets/
roads, on-street parking is strictly prohibited. The entirety of the paved
surface of a street is considered traffic lanes. Parking in the street right-
of-way is limited to the rental property owner’s lot. Parking on adjacent
vacant lots, whether owned by the rental property owner or not, is prohibited.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 OCCUPANCY LIMITS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   At no time shall short-term rentals have, or be offered for rent as having,
an occupancy greater than three guests per bedroom, plus an additional two
guests. The number of bedrooms shall be determined in the same manner as
provided in the state’s Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to seek legal and equitable relief from
any court of competent jurisdiction for violations of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   No applicant for property subject to a conditional use permit for
short-term rental revocation shall be granted another conditional use permit
for short-term rental for a period of 12 months from the date of any
conditional use permit for short-term rental revocation.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ACTIVE PERMITS ISSUED.
   The city has not established a limit on the total number of conditional use
permits for short-term rental.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 112.08 TIMESHARES.
   Timeshare units that are being rented on a short-term basis to non-timeshare
property owners through the timeshare supervisory authority are covered by this
chapter, with the following provisions.
   (A)   One conditional use permit for short-term rental for timeshared
properties may be issued by the city’s Planning Commission to the timeshare
supervisory authority, covering each and every unit within the timeshared
property.
   (B)   Section
112.03 of this chapter applies to the timeshare supervisory authority and §
112.03(B)(7) shall be replaced with the following: payment of a one-time
conditional use permit for short-term rental application fee of $500 and does
not expire, subject to the conditions in §
112.02(A) and (B) of this chapter.
   (C)   Section
112.04 of this chapter shall be replaced for short-term rental of timeshare
units with the following: (1) A condition of granting the conditional use
permit for short-term rental requires that the timeshare supervisor authority
shall provide proof that the applicant has met the requirements of the state,
county and city for collection of state, county and local advertising and
promotion taxes; and (2) a condition of granting the conditional use permit for
short-term rental requires that the timeshare supervisory authority provide the
city’s Planning Commission with a copy of its “Rules of Conduct” for short-term
rentals. The “Rules of Conduct” must be satisfactory to the city’s Planning
Commission, in its sole discretion, as a condition of approval of granting the
permit.
   (D)   Section
112.05 of this chapter applies to short-term rental of timeshare units.
   (E)   Section
112.07 of this chapter shall not count short-term rental permits for timeshare
short-term rentals toward the maximum number allowed in the city.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 112.09 FUTURE MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   These conditions may be modified from time to time by the City Council
and shall be distributed, by first class mail when modified, to each current
conditional use permit for short-term rental grantee.
   (B)   These conditions are the minimum requirements for the city’s Planning
Commission (HICPC) to be used for considering a conditional use application for
short-term rental. The HICPC may impose additional application specific
conditions, in its sole discretion, to apply when granting a conditional use
permit for short-term rental.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 112.10 CONDITIONAL USE FOR SHORT-TERM RENTAL.
   Conditional use for short-term rental permits that have been issued/renewed
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall remain effective until
renewed, subject to the conditions in §
112.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person operating a short-term rental in violation of this chapter shall,
for a first offense, be fined not less than $250, nor more than $500. For a
second offense, a violator shall be fined an amount not less than $500, nor
more than $1,000. For a third or subsequent offense, in addition to a fine of
not less than $1,000, nor more than the maximum fine allowed by state law, any
conditional use permit for short-term rental issued pursuant to the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived shall be revoked by the court. For purposes
of this chapter, a PERSON OPERATING A SHORT-TERM RENTAL shall be the owner, the
conditional use permit for short-term rental applicant, or the local point of
contact required by §
112.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-004, passed 10-16-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANS ADOPTED
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   PLANNING AND ZONING
      
153.   DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   PUBLIC WAY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: PLANS ADOPTED
Section
   
150.01   Master Street Plan adopted
   
150.02   Land Use Plan adopted
§ 150.01 MASTER STREET PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The map entitled “Holiday Island Road and Street Map”, which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof, and the
description thereof, which follows, be and are hereby approved and adopted. The
City Recorder-Treasurer shall maintain two signed copies and a digital image
for public inspection.
   (B)   The Master Street Plan designates the following: located all within
the municipal limits of the city and more particularly described as follows.
      (1)   Definition of “road” or “street”. For the purpose of this section
and the map attached to the ordinance codified herein, the words STREET or ROAD
shall mean all roadways, public and private, open for general public travel.
Access drives to apartment and commercial complexes shall not be considered as
PRIVATE STREETS.
      (2)   Official map. The city’s Road and Street Map shall identify all
named road and street names and their relative locations. Designations of main/
primary routes shall be identified.
      (3)   Street or road names on preliminary plat. Street or road names
shall be shown on the preliminary plat of any large scale development or
planned unit development. The street names shown on the final plat shall be
consistent with those shown on the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Updating. The official Road and Street Map shall be updated by the
HICPC and recommended for City Council adoption upon final plat approval of any
plat, large scale development or planned unit development.
      (5)   Characteristics. Roads hard surfaced with chip-and-seal or asphalt
shall be of a thickness deemed necessary for the characteristics of the
substrate and of width suited to the road base width as originally constructed.
Concrete paving of streets shall include curbs. New roads or streets shall have
a driving surface of no less than 18 feet wide.
      (6)   Function/use. Roads and streets shall be open for general public
travel. Long-term or regularly-frequent parking of vehicles, trailers,
equipment or materials on the roads and streets is prohibited.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 150.02 LAND USE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The plan entitled “City of Holiday Island Land Use Plan” is hereby approved
and adopted. The City Recorder-Treasurer shall maintain two signed copies and a
digital image for public inspection.
(Ord. 2021-012, passed 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Building Inspector
   
151.02   Building Code
   
151.03   Extensions, interior remodel; other
   
151.04   Inspections
   
151.05   Water system requirements
   
151.06   Construction generally
   
151.07   Manufactured homes
   
151.08   Container homes
   
151.09   Residential construction generally
   
151.10   Compliance; enforcement responsibilities
   
151.11   Street openings
   
151.12   Liability
Building Permits
   
151.25   Permit issuance
   
151.26   Permit application
   
151.27   Plan rejection or approval
   
151.28   Solar installations
   
151.29   Swimming pools
   
151.30   Fees
   
151.31   Violations
   
151.32   Exceptions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The provisions of this code shall be administered by the Building
Inspector, which shall be a person or persons designated by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council. The Building Inspector may be provided with the
assistance of such other people as directed by the Mayor. Decisions by the
Building Inspector may be appealed to the City Council. The Building Inspector
shall keep records of all permits issued or denied, all certificates of
occupancy issued or denied, records of all inspections and all violation
complaints received along with action taken on violation complaints.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall enforce the provisions of this code, and
in addition shall have authority to:
      (1)   Examine and approve any application pertaining to the use of
buildings, signs or structures to determine if the application conforms to the
provisions of this code;
      (2)   Issue or deny building permits and certificates of occupancy based
upon compliance with this code and other applicable codes. Written notice
stating the reasons for denial will be provided with any building permit or
certificate of occupancy that is denied;
      (3)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and use of land as is
necessary to determine compliance with the regulations of this code; and
      (4)   Revoke approvals where provisions of this code are being violated.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the Building Inspector to engage in the
business of the sale, installation or maintenance of construction materials or
equipment, either directly or indirectly, and he or she shall have no financial
interest in any concern engaged in such business in the city, at any time while
holding such office.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.02 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   All fabrication, erection, construction, enlargement, alteration or
repairs of buildings or structures requires a building permit and shall meet
the state’s Fire Prevention Code, or other applicable state and city building
codes, current editions, including the State Gas Code, State Mechanical Code,
State Plumbing Code, Arkansas (National) Electrical Code, State Energy Code,
International Residential Code (IRC) 2021 edition and the county.
   (B)   In the event of any conflict between the standards set forth in any of
the publications, the more restrictive shall control.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.03 EXTENSIONS, INTERIOR REMODEL; OTHER.
   The following conditions require a building permit:
   (A)   Any addition including decks and porches that changes the footprint of
the structure;
   (B)   Repair or replacement of any deck more than 32 inches above the
ground;
   (C)   Any interior remodeling that involves adding new plumbing, new
electrical circuits or adding load to an existing electrical circuit or moving
or removing a load bearing wall;
   (D)   Any structural changes to an exterior wall or roof (examples: adding a
dormer in the roof, changing the pitch of the roof or widening a doorway or
window);
   (E)   Detached accessory buildings exceeding 100 square feet in area; and
   (F)   Adding solar panels, fireplaces, swimming pools or a backup generator.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Access for inspection. The Building Inspector, or his or her assistant
and other persons authorized by the Building Inspector, is hereby granted the
authority to enter upon all property and all buildings in the city in the
performance of his or her duties between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
daily, except that in an emergency, the Building Inspector may enter buildings
for such purposes at other than the above designated hours, and may disseminate
information relative to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection; plumbing.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of three inspections by the Building
Plumbing Inspector when plumbing is installed in any building. The first such
inspection to be known as the rough-in inspection, the second to be known as
the top-out inspection and the third as the final inspection.
         (a)   The “rough-in” inspection is to be made when the sewer drainage
or water piping is installed, but before concealing the plumbing work. This
includes a shower pan leak test.
         (b)   Top out inspection consists of the venting of the sewer drains.
         (c)   The “final” plumbing inspection is to be made when all plumbing
fixtures are connected and the plumbing job is completed.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall have the legal right to inspect and
test an existing plumbing or drainage installation when he or she has reason to
believe that such system is not safe for the use it is intended. When such
inspections or tests indicate a faulty or unsafe system, the owner shall
recondition or replace such system in order to render it safe.
      (3)   If any plumbing work or part thereof which is installed, or altered
or repaired, is covered before being inspected by the Building Inspector, it
shall be uncovered for inspection after notice to uncover the work has been
issued to the responsible person by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Inspection – electrical.
      (1)   When the electrical equipment is found by the Building Electrical
Inspector to be defective or defectively installed, the person, firm or
corporation responsible for the electrical equipment shall be notified in
writing and shall make any change or repairs required in the judgment of the
Building Electrical Inspector to place such equipment in safe and proper
condition and if such work is not completed in five days or such longer period
as may be specified by the Building Electrical Inspector in said notice, the
Building Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or order
discontinuance of electrical service to said electrical equipment.
      (2)   In cases of emergency where electrical equipment may interfere with
the work of the Fire Department, the Building Electrical Inspector shall have
the authority to immediately disconnect or cause the disconnection of any
electrical equipment or electrical service thereto.
      (3)   The Building Electrical Inspector is authorized to inspect and re-
inspect all wires and apparatus within the city, previous to, during and after
its installation, to ascertain and determine whether the same is properly done
and free from danger and defects, and is hereby granted the power and authority
to order removed any obstructions which may prevent a perfect, complete and
thorough inspection of the current carrying conductors, and no electrical
wiring in new construction shall be covered or concealed until inspection has
been made.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum of two inspections by the Building
Electrical Inspector when electrical is installed in any building. The first
such inspection to be known as the rough in inspection, the second to be known
as the final inspection.
         (a)   The “rough in” inspection is to be made when all of the wiring
including sources, outlets and fixtures are installed, but before concealing
the wiring.
         (b)   The final inspection will be done upon completion of work.
      (5)   Since the city uses either a State Electrical Inspector or a
licensed electrical inspector from a neighboring community to complete the
inspections, a minimum of 48 hours’ notice to the city’s Building Inspector is
required for any electrical inspection.
   (D)   Footings, foundations and retaining walls.
      (1)   The Building Inspector is authorized to inspect all footings,
foundation walls and retaining walls. The inspection shall include, but is not
limited to, footing bedding material, capability of footings to carry the
intended load and proper reinforcing. There shall be a minimum of two
inspections:
         (a)   When footings are formed but prior to pouring concrete; and
         (b)   When walls are formed but prior to pouring concrete.
      (2)   Prior to pouring concrete that by this code requires steel
reinforcement, pictures must be taken of the steel on chairs for the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.05 WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No water meter, other than a construction meter, may be installed or
connected to the the city’s water system without an approved building permit,
issued by the city’s Building Inspector and, until the plumbing has been
certified by the appropriate authority having jurisdiction over the project and
the Water Department.
   (B)   (1)   The city’s water and sewer systems are approved by the state’s
Department of Health. No system may be connected to the water and sewer system
unless it meets the applicable codes and regulations of the state’s Department
of Health and the requirements of the city.
      (2)   The applicant is responsible for meeting these requirements and
providing evidence of approval to the city’s Building Inspector.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage without authorization. No private wells are
allowed within the corporate limits of the city except as allowed in the
Chapter 152.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.06 CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY.
   In addition to the standards set forth in the publications set forth in §
151.02:
   (A)   All water lines from the meter to the structure must be placed in
protective sleeves. A tracer wire in a blue jacket must be placed in the trench
along side the water line;
   (B)   Footings, stem walls and concrete flatwork:
      (1)   Due to the potential for subgrade material in the city to move and
settle, footing and stem wall reinforcing must be per I.R.C. § R403.1.3
regardless of seismic zone; or
      (2)   Due to the potential for subgrade material in Holiday Island to
move and settle, all concrete flat work including drives, porches and patios,
shall have rebar or wire mesh reinforcement placed in the approximate middle
third of the slab once poured. To ensure proper location, the reinforcement
material must be placed on bolsters or chairs. The type of reinforcement and
bolsters/chairs to be used must be specified on the architectural drawings.
Expansion joints must be per code.
   (C)   Service entrance cable shall not be used from the meter to the
electric panel;
   (D)   (1)   All electrical from service meter to electrical panel shall be
in electrical PVC conduits and wire size shall be in accordance with NEC
ratings of amperage. Planking/caution tape required six inches above PVC.
      (2)   Due to the rocky terrain in the city, UFER grounding required.
   (E)   Note that, Arkansas Mechanical Code § 601.3.1 requires that heating
and air conditioning ducts be sealed as soon as installed. The use of the
heating and air conditioning systems during construction is not allowed;
   (F)   When constructing a concrete block foundation or wall, vibration or
some other means is required to assure flow of concrete fill to every course of
concrete block;
   (G)   All multi-family structures, residential or commercial, shall have a
two-hour firewall between units per applicable codes;
   (H)   Driveways, curb, gutter, ditches and runoff.
      (1)   (a)   All construction in the city shall be designed in a manner
that assures that storm water will be collected and discharged without damage
to property or peril to human safety. Storm water shall be handled by curb and
gutter with storm drainage, roadside ditches, natural or improved open
waterways or underground conduits. Detention basins may be used to retard
waterflows and protect downstream property.
         (b)   Easements for installation and maintenance of utilities and
drainage facilities are reserved as shown on the recorded plot. Within these
easements, no structure, including driveways, plantings or other material,
shall be placed or permitted to remain which may damage or interfere with the
installation and maintenance of utilities, or which may:
            1.   Change the direction of flow of drainage channels in the
easements;
            2.   Obstruct or retard the flow of water through drainage channels
within the easements;
            3.   Dam up water or redirect the flow of water unto another
property; or
            4.   Direct water to flow across the roadway.
         (c)   If it is necessary to remove plantings or materials in order to
maintain said utilities or drainage, there is no obligation by any agency to
either replace the same or to pay for the same.
      (2)   Driveway culverts and paving beyond property line to the roadway
surface must be coordinated through and approved by the Road Department.
Culverts are to be installed by the Road Department and billed to the property
owner. It is required that concrete paving includes an expansion joint or
sawcut at the property line. Sloped driveways connecting to a paved street must
be hard surfaced or have an approved alternative mediation for potential gravel
washing.
      (3)   Concrete and backfill must be sloped away from the structure.
   (I)   During construction, if a builder, contractor or property owner
develops variations or deviations from the approved plan that are considered to
be major, prior to proceeding with construction, the builder/contractor shall
be required to submit such variations or deviations to the Building Inspector
for approval. Absence of prior approval to any deviation, correction shall be
at the builder’s expense.
   (J)   Exact location of the water and sewer hookups for each lot must be
determined at the job site by the Public Works Department;
   (K)   Cross-connections: Holiday Island adheres to the Safe Drinking Water
Act of 1974 (Pub. Law No. 93-523). Toward that end, it is necessary for
backflow prevention devices to be installed to protect the public water supply
from potential contamination due to cross connection. Backflow prevention
devices shall be installed in accordance with all applicable local and state
regulations effective August 1, 2020, and federal laws;
   (L)   All lots serviced by the city’s water system are required to install
individual pressure reducers on their service lines to protect the household
plumbing from excessive pressures;
   (M)   All new construction shall be required to include an electric service
disconnect switch which shall be located immediately below the electric meter,
on the exterior portion of said construction. In multiple unit construction or
any situation using multiple meters, each meter and disconnect switch, if
installed, shall be plainly marked to indicate the unit number or load
designation;
   (N)   All structures shall have smoke detectors installed on each level as
required by code. The decision as to the location and number of detectors will
be determined by the builder/contractor and in accordance with all applicable
local, state and federal rules, laws, regulations and codes;
   (O)   All handrails on exterior decks, patios or stairs more than 30 inches
above grade shall be a minimum 36 inches high for residential construction and
a minimum of 41 inches high for commercial construction and shall be
constructed in accordance with all applicable codes and ordinances;
   (P)   The access hole to the attic crawl space must be a minimum size of 20
inches by 36 inches to allow for proper entrance for firefighting purposes;
   (Q)   No blasting is allowed within the municipal limits;
   (R)   Prior to lighting any fire, it shall be the responsibility of the
owner and/or builder to notify the office of the city’s Fire Department. No
fire, once lit, shall be left unattended. No fire, once construction begins,
shall be permitted which proposes to burn construction related items except
such items and materials as may be approved from time to time by the city’s
Fire Department. No fire shall be started during any period in which a local,
county or state burn ban has been activated. No construction materials shall be
burned unless water is available at the job site. The property owner and/or the
contractor shall be responsible for any and all damage caused by any such fire;
   (S)   Unless other arrangements have been made at or prior to the
application for a building permit, and such arrangements shall have been
approved, in writing, by the Building Inspector, all construction sites shall
have portable restroom facilities available on site. Said facilities shall be
in place within seven calendar days of the activation of a permit. Each
construction site shall have on site at all times a trash container sufficient
in size to contain all consumer waste brought to or created on the site. The
container shall be emptied at sufficient intervals as needed;
   (T)   Because of the wooded nature of the city, it is recommended that
contractors and property owners consider fireproof or fire-retardant roofing
materials. Wood shakes and wood shingles are prohibited;
   (U)   Plans for constructing retaining walls between the property line and
the structure must be approved by the Building Inspector prior to the start of
construction;
   (V)   At the discretion of the Building Inspector, engineered soil
compaction specifications and measurements may be required where significant
fill has been added to the construction area;
   (W)   Brush piles left from clearing the lot must be removed before footings
are poured. When construction is complete, the construction site and lot shall
be cleaned. The area cleaned shall include all ditches and rights-of-ways.
Cleaning shall include removal of all trash, rubbish, building materials,
construction equipment and waste, including concrete.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Installation of a mobile home or replacement of a mobile home with
another mobile home is prohibited. (See definition of “mobile home”.)
   (B)   Installation of a manufactured home with a manufacturing model year in
excess of ten years old is prohibited without review by the Building Inspector
and the City Council.
   (C)   Installation of a new or used manufactured (see definition of
“manufactured home”) home must be done in compliance with A.C.A. §§ 20-25-101
et seq. and “Rules Including General Installation and Anchoring
Specifications”, June 14, 2024, or most recent edition. Installation must be
done by an authorized installer. AUTHORIZED INSTALLER means any person or
employee approved, certified, licensed by or hired by the Director of the
state’s Manufactured Home Commission to perform inspection services.
   (D)   No person shall alter or cause to be altered any manufactured home to
which a label has been affixed if the alteration or conversion causes the
manufactured home to be in violation of the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards (A.C.A. § 14-56-204).
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      FEDERAL STANDARDS. The federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, 24 C.F.R. pt. 3280, promulgated by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development under the authority of 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.,
as it existed on January 1, 1976.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in a factory in accordance
with the federal standards and meeting the definitions set forth in the federal
standards and under A.C.A. § 20-25-102.
      MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in a factory before the
enactment of the federal standards (A.C.A. § 14-54-1602).
   (F)   An application for installing a used manufactured home in the city, in
addition to the plat showing the proposed location and proof of ownership of
the lot, requires:
      (1)   A certificate from the County Treasurer from where the manufactured
home is being relocated stating that there are no unpaid taxes on the property;
      (2)   A certificate of title, a copy of a certificate of title or a copy
of an application for a certificate of title submitted to the state’s
Department of Motor Vehicles; and
      (3)   A copy of the license of the mover/installer of the manufactured
home.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 CONTAINER HOMES.
   Use of intermodal shipping containers for residential construction must
conform to the Internal Revenue Code and International Building Code
requirements as well as other state and local building codes. These building
codes will be strictly enforced and require extensive documentation that must
be provided by a licensed engineer. Refer to IBC 3115.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.09 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Miscellaneous types of construction and occupancy such as Quonset
hut, yurt, tent, camper, RV or tree houses are strictly prohibited as they do
not comply with the International Building or Residential Codes.
      (2)   A non-residential structure (garage, carport or accessory building
or structure) is not allowed on an R1 residential lot unless there is a
residential structure there first or there is a common wall, foundation, roof
or other inseparable feature with a residential structure on an adjacent lot
with the same owner or if a Conditional Use Permit has been issued by the
city’s Planning Commission.
      (3)   No outside lights shall be installed on public property or right-
of-way in residential units without a permit. The minimum distance between such
lights shall be 300 feet.
      (4)   Street address numbers shall be installed on the property where
they are visible from the street and in accordance with United States Post
Office requirements.
      (5)   All fences shall be constructed of brick, stone, decorative wood,
decorative metal or decorative synthetic materials. No wire fences, except
chain link, shall be permitted. No fence shall be erected upon the front yard
portion of any lot such that it extends beyond the front of the residential
structure. No fence shall be placed upon any lot, or any portion thereof, which
will interfere with the line of sight of vehicular traffic at any intersection.
      (6)   Orientation of R1 residences must be such that the front entrance
generally faces the street frontage. Front entrance(s) must be directly
accessible from the street frontage. The platting of R2 and R3 residences must
be approved by the City Planning Commission if not orientated as required for
R1 residences. R2 and R3 front entrances must be accessible from the street
frontage.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   In accordance with IBC §
110.01, no building that will be occupied for residential or commercial
purposes that has been erected or structurally altered shall be used, occupied
or changed in use until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by
the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall maintain a record of all
certificates of occupancy. Building permits issued for electrical, plumbing,
decks, porches, detached garages, accessory buildings and solar panels and the
like only require passing inspection to be closed out.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy may be revoked by the Building Inspector
when it is found that the building or land does not conform to the use or
condition, if any, in the certificate.
      (3)   Contractors or owners who complete jobs without requesting a final
inspection and certificate of occupancy shall be subject to the penalties per §
151.99.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 COMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Acceptance. Each property owner and builder contractor, by virtue of
acceptance and signing of the building permit, does agree to abide by the rules
and regulations set forth in this document, and, in the event of a violation
thereof, do agree to submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the courts of the
county.
   (B)   Enforcement responsibilities.
      (1)   If the Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer shall find
that the provisions of these regulations are being violated, he or she shall
notify the person responsible for such violations in writing, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. A
“stop construction” notice shall be posted at the building site if violations
are not remedied before any additional work is performed on the site.
      (2)   Should the person responsible for such violations fail to take the
necessary action to correct it, the Building Inspector shall notify the City
Attorney, and the City Attorney shall within ten days apply for an injunction,
mandamus or other process to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove said violation to
these regulations.
   (C)   Appeal. Should the contractor and Building Inspector fail to agree on
the validity of a violation, the contractor or property owner can appeal the
decision to the City Council.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.11 STREET OPENINGS.
   All openings made in the public streets or alleys to install plumbing must
be made by the responsible utility and shall comply to any street cut ordinance
in effect.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.12 LIABILITY.
   Any officer, employee or person, charged with the enforcement of this code,
acting for the city in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby
render himself or herself liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved
from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of such
act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this code
shall be defended by the City Attorney or legal representative of the city.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.25 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Building permits will be issued in accordance with A.C.A. §§ 14-1-501
et seq. relative to timely response to building permit applications, issuance
of building permits and the rights of owners or contractors to enlist at their
expense the services of a qualified private professional to review the building
permit documents and conduct on-site inspections. PRIVATE PROFESSIONAL PROVIDER
means one of the following who is not an employee of or otherwise affiliated
with the person engaged in the construction project to be reviewed or
inspected:
      (1)   A professional engineer as defined in A.C.A. § 17-30-101;
      (2)   A registered architect as defined in A.C.A. § 17-15-102; or
      (3)   A person licensed, certified or registered by the applicable agency
or body to conduct the type of plan review or inspection covered under this
section.
   (B)   The city will issue a building permit for either the new construction,
additions or renovation of a building or structure within the corporate limits
of the city only when the application has been submitted and approved by the
Building Inspector as meeting the requirements of these regulations. No
building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure located on a lot or parcel subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of the Planning and Zoning regulations, nor shall the municipality
have any obligation to issue certificates of occupancy or to extend utility
services to any parcel created in violation of those regulations.
   (C)   Existing parcels and lots cannot be subdivided or zoned without being
submitted and approved by the City Planning Commission in accordance with the
planning and zoning regulations in Chapter 152.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.26 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for building permits shall be provided to the
Building Inspector and be accompanied by two sets of the following:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale on a copy of an original survey and
stamped by a licensed surveyor, showing the legal description of the property
and the location of the structure to be erected, and indicating the setback
from the property lines. The location and type of the planned driveway shall be
shown on the plot plan. A plot plan is only required for new buildings or
additions to existing buildings including garages, decks, porches, pergolas or
anything that changes the footprint of an existing structure;
      (2)   Per I.R.C. § 106, drawings and plans must be prepared by a
registered design professional (architect or engineer) as required by this
statute. Exceptions can be made by the Building Inspector if it is found that
the nature of the work and drawings and specifications submitted are sufficient
to determine compliance with this code. The minimum requirements are a
foundation plan, a drawn to scale floor plan enclosed area and power and
lighting, and all elevations showing openings; and
      (3)   License numbers for all state-licensed building contractors, master
plumbers, master electricians and heat and air contractors supervising or
performing all plumbing, electrical and heating and air conditioning work for
said construction, shall be on file with the City Building Inspector. Proof of
qualifying business license required.
   (B)   A road damage permit is required from the Suburban Improvement
District. The permit may be obtained at the HISID office located at 110
Woodsdale Drive.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.27 PLAN REJECTION OR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Rejection; appeals process.
      (1)   Application review. The packages will be reviewed within 24 hours
relative to §
151.26(A)(1) through (A)(3). If incomplete or inadequate, the package will be
returned to the requester with a detailed list of missing, incomplete or
inadequate documentation.
      (2)   Drawing review. Questions about building code interpretation or
application may be appealed to the State Building Inspector. However, local
requirements found in the Building Code that are more restrictive than the
state or national codes cannot be appealed.
      (3)   Appeals. In accordance with §
152.039, decisions made by the Building Inspector related to zoning including
uses of the property or setback and easement requirements may be appealed to
the Board of Zoning Adjustment per the process delineated in the zoning
regulations. Decisions made by the Building Inspector that are not related to
the zoning regulations may be appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   Approval.
      (1)   Upon approval of the application for Building Permit, one set of
stamped construction plans and the survey showing the plot plan will be
returned to the applicant, along with two copies of the Building Permit. One
copy of the permit shall be posted at the job site and visible at all times
during construction.
      (2)   Construction must be initiated within 30 days from the date of the
permit application, or the permit will be null and void and permit fees will be
forfeited. Upon the issuance of the Building Permit, construction is to be
completed within 365 consecutive calendar days. Failure to complete
construction within the timeframe constraints will require the issuance of a
Building Permit extension in the amount of $100. This extension will extend the
original permit time by 182 consecutive calendar days. A building permit can be
extended only one time after which a new building permit must be issued per the
permit fee schedule. In the event it is determined that the construction will
not be completed in the specified time, the builder shall advise the Building
Inspector at least 90 days prior to the expiration of said permit by submitting
a request for an extension of time to the Building Inspector for consideration
by the Building Inspector. At the Building Inspector’s discretion, the permit
extension fee may be waved if needed due to such things as an act of God or
availability of materials.
      (3)   Size, for the purposes of the building permit, is based upon the
number of square feet of gross heated space plus any additional habitable
living area including decks, porches, screened porches, sunrooms, garages,
carports, breezeways or similar features when located above grade.
      (4)   The Building Inspector shall issue to the property owner or builder
representing the owner a packet containing a copy of the building permit, a job
inspection card and a copy of these regulations.
      (5)   Most units in the city have a declaration of reservations. These
are binding agreements between the property owners in the unit and will be
considered during the permitting process. However, the city is not responsible
for enforcement of the declaration of reservations, nor compelled by its text.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.28 SOLAR INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A solar installation permit is required. The solar installer must be
licensed in the state to do solar installations, and work must be completed in
accordance with all applicable building and electrical codes.
   (B)   The application for the permit must include the specifications for the
system. For rooftop installations, verification is required that the roof
structure is adequate to carry the extra load. For ground level installations,
a plot plan is required showing the location of the panels relative to
applicable zoning regulations (setbacks, easements and front yard
restrictions).
   (C)   Electrical work must be completed by an electrician licensed in the
state and inspected by an electrical inspector licensed in the state. A “final
state” inspection is required to be signed by the inspector and the electrician
before Carroll Electric will permit “going online”.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.29 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The installation of a swimming pool requires a permit. For above
ground pools, an electrical inspection by a licensed electrician is required.
      (2)   For in-ground pools, if a retaining wall is being incorporated, the
construction plans for the retaining wall must be approved by the Building
Inspector. All electrical must be approved by a licensed electrician before
covering any wiring. Drains for in-ground and above ground pools must be
connected to the HISID sewer system in accordance with all applicable plumbing
codes and regulations.
      (3)   The following is provided for reference and is not a substitute for
any applicable code.
   (B)   Grounding.
      (1)   All electrical equipment for swimming pools must be grounded and
connected by wiring methods in accordance with NFPA 70, National Electric Code®
(NEC®).
      (2)   The following must be grounded:
         (a)   All electrical equipment associated with the circulation system;
         (b)   All electrical equipment located within five feet of the inside
wall of the pool water;
         (c)   All through-wall lighting assemblies and underwater luminaires;
and
         (d)   Panelboards that supply electricity to equipment associated with
the pool.
      (3)   Ground-fault circuit interrupters (GFCIs) are required with
transformer and power supply enclosures, junction boxes and pool motors.
      (4)   Grounding and bonding terminals should be identified as being used
for wet and corrosive environments.
      (5)   Grounding and bonding connections should be made of copper, copper
alloy or stainless steel. They also should be listed for direct burial.
      (6)   Luminaries and related equipment should also be grounded. All
lighting assemblies and luminaires must be connected to an insulated copper
grounding conductor not smaller than 12 AWG. Where a non-metallic conduit is
installed, the installation of an eight AWG insulated copper bonding jumper may
be required in the conduit. Wet-niche luminaires supplied by a flexible cord
must have all exposed non-current-carrying metal parts grounded.
      (7)   An equipment-grounding conductor should be installed with the
feeder conductors between the grounding terminal of the pool equipment
panelboard and the grounding terminal of the applicable service equipment.
   (C)   Bonding.
      (1)   Bonding is the joining of metallic parts to form an electrically
conductive path that will result in electrical continuity between components to
ensure that the electrical potential will be the same throughout.
      (2)   The following parts of pools, spas and hot tubs must be bonded
together using conductors of at least eight AWG or using rigid metal conduit.
      (3)   All metallic parts of the pool’s structure, including reinforcing
metal, must be bonded together using solid copper conductors (insulated,
covered or bare), and at least eight AWG, or with rigid metal conduit of brass
or other corrosion-resistant metal. Connections of bonded parts must be made in
accordance with the NEC® (refer to § 250.8).
      (4)   All underwater metal-formed lighting shells must be bonded, as well
as all metal fittings within or attached to the pool structure. Metal parts of
electrical equipment related to the water circulation system, including pumps,
motors, metal parts of pool covers and associated equipment must be bonded. All
fixed metal parts must be bonded, including metal-sheathed cables and raceways,
metal piping, metal awnings, metal fences, metal doors and metal window frames.
      (5)   The following is a general list of the items that require
equipotential bonding:
         (a)   Conductive pool shells, including poured concrete, sprayed
concrete and concrete block with painted or plastered coatings;
         (b)   Structural reinforcing steel;
         (c)   Perimeter surfaces that extend three feet horizontally beyond
the inside walls of the pool, spa or hot tub. A perimeter surface that extends
less than three feet and is separated from the pool by a barrier shall require
equipotential bonding on the pool side of the barrier. Bonding to perimeter
surfaces shall be provided and be attached to the pool, spa and hot tub
reinforcing steel or copper conductor grid at a minimum of four points around
the pool, spa or hot tub;
         (d)   Metallic components;
         (e)   Underwater lighting;
         (f)   Metal fittings;
         (g)   Electrical equipment; and
         (h)   All fixed metal parts.
      (6)   The perimeter surface that is considered to be bonded is the area
that extends three feet horizontally beyond the inside walls of the pool and
includes the unpaved surfaces and other types of paving. Bonding to perimeter
surfaces can be attached to the pool reinforcing steel or copper conductor grid
at a minimum of four points spaced around the pool’s perimeter.
   (D)   Summary.
      (1)   The electrical equipment for swimming pools must be grounded and
connected by wiring methods in accordance with NFPA 70, National Electric
Code®.
      (2)   In addition to grounding, bonding is required to get all metal
parts of the electrical equipment and the non-electrical metal parts of the
pool/spa structure to attain equal electrical potential.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.30 FEES.
   (A)   Type of construction. Square footage is calculated per §
151.27(B)(3). Footing, framing, electrical and plumbing inspection fees are
included. Reinspection fee $100 per reinspection.
Type of Construction Fee Amount
Type of Construction                    Fee Amount
Additions to existing structure         $50 per 100 square feet of the addition
footprint                               $240 minimum
Any detached permanent or non-permanent
structure over 100 sq. ft. (garages,    $40 per 100 square feet under roof
storage sheds, workshops and the like)
Commercial - lots zoned C-1, C-2, C-3,  Fee to be same as R-1
C-4                                     Minimum permit to be $480
Decks - new or additions to existing    $100
decks, porches or pergolas
Manufactured homes                      $400
R-1, R-1M, R-2, R-3 plus any detached   $50 per 100 square feet
permanent structure that includes       $400 minimum per unit
plumbing.
Solar panels                            $250
Swimming pools – above ground         $100
Swimming pools – in-ground            $250
Other, per §                           $100
151.03
 
   (B)   The Building Inspector inspection does not relieve the manufactured
home installer of the inspection requirements in A.C.A. §§ 20-25-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.31 VIOLATIONS.
   Fees will be doubled to the owner or the contractor for beginning
construction without a permit. Clearing and grubbing of the property is allowed
without permit. No footings or in-ground work will be allowed until the plans
have been submitted to the Building Inspector, approved by the Building
Inspector and a building permit issued for the project. No sewer and water
connections are to be made without a building permit.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 151.32 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No permit is required for simple maintenance, such as replacing
faucets, sink drains, household light fixtures or replacing siding or roofing
material.
   (B)   Storage sheds and portable buildings under 100 square feet do not need
a permit.
   (C)   New fence installation requires plan approval by the Building
Inspector. A no-charge permit will be issued.
   (D)   All concrete flatwork exceeding 120 square feet and not otherwise
associated with an existing building permit requires a no-charge building
permit.
   (E)   Design and placement of hobby chicken coops must be approved by the
Building Inspector and requires a no-charge building permit.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
these regulations or fail to comply with any of the requirements, or who shall
build or alter any building in violation of the detailed statement of plans
submitted and approved hereunder shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be liable to a fine of not more than $500. Each day such violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The owner or owners of
any building or premises or part of a building/premises, where anything in
violation of these regulations shall be placed, or shall exist; and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, engineer, person or other corporation
employed in connection with and who may have assisted in the commission of any
such violation, shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense and upon
conviction shall be fined.
   (B)   Repeat offences may result in a suspension of the offender’s city
business license or a permanent prohibition from obtaining future building
permits.
(Ord. 2026-008, passed 5-26-2026)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title; provisions
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Purpose
   
152.004   Jurisdiction
   
152.005   Nature and application
   
152.006   Rules of construction
   
152.007   Definitions
   
152.008   Administration
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.020   Planning and Zoning Official
   
152.021   Building permits
   
152.022   Certificates of occupancy
   
152.023   Amendments
   
152.024   Fees
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
152.035   Creation and appointment
   
152.036   Organization
   
152.037   Powers and duties
   
152.038   Meeting and notice for variance applications
   
152.039   Appeal of administrative official decisions
   
152.040   Appeals to Board decisions
Zoning Districts and Boundaries
   
152.055   Zoning districts established
   
152.056   Zoning district hierarchy
   
152.057   Zoning district boundary map
   
152.058   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.059   Classification of annexed lands
   
152.060   Vacation of public rights-of-way
   
152.061   Parcels/lots assigned unit-block-lot designations
Zoning Districts
   
152.075   Residential zoning districts; general description
   
152.076   Residential district uses
   
152.077   Commercial zoning districts; general description
   
152.078   Industrial zoning districts; general description
   
152.079   Commercial district and industrial district uses
   
152.080   Suburban improvement district zoning; general description
   
152.081   Suburban improvement district zoning uses
   
152.082   Government district; general description
   
152.083   Government district uses
   
152.084   Rural wooded districts; general description
   
152.085   Rural wooded district uses
   
152.086   Deficient property district; general description
   
152.087   Deficient property district uses
   
152.088   Non-residential lot, yard and height regulations
   
152.089   Overlay and special purpose districts
   
152.090   Planned unit development (PUD) districts
Non-Conforming Structures and Uses
   
152.105   Continuance of use
   
152.106   Discontinuance of use
   
152.107   Change of use
   
152.108   Repairs and alterations
   
152.109   Accessories to primary non-conforming uses
   
152.110   Damage and destruction
   
152.111   District changes
Conditional Uses
   
152.125   Nature and description
   
152.126   Development standards and review guidelines
   
152.127   Procedure for authorizing
   
152.128   Effect of approval
Accessory Uses
   
152.140   General description
   
152.141   Location requirements and standards
   
152.142   Residential accessory uses
   
152.143   Non-residential accessory uses
Special Conditions Applicable to Certain Uses
   
152.155   General
   
152.156   Adult entertainment
   
152.157   Car washes
   
152.158   Emergency housing units
   
152.159   Manufactured housing parks
   
152.160   Manufactured housing units; residential design
   
152.161   Manufactured housing subdivisions
   
152.162   Temporary uses and structures
   
152.163   Animal farms; chickens
   
152.164   Detached accessory units; accessory dwelling units
   
152.165   Self-storage units
   
152.166   Outdoor storage
   
152.167   Outdoor vendors
Signs
   
152.180   Prohibited signs
   
152.181   Signs authorized in every district
   
152.182   Permit required
   
152.183   Sign regulations by district
   
152.184   General administration
Supplemental Regulations
   
152.195   Off-street parking and loading
   
152.196   Driveways and access; multi-family and non-residential uses
   
152.197   Corner visibility; sight triangle
   
152.198   Residential compatibility standards
   
152.199   Fences
   
152.200   Sidewalks
   
152.201   Street frontage, access easement
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE; PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall constitute the planning and zoning regulations of the
city. It may be cited as the “zoning ordinance” or the “zoning code” or “this
chapter” and consists of the text, which follows, as well the zoning district
boundary map, entitled “City of Holiday Island, Arkansas, Zoning Map” (official
zoning map) and the “City of Holiday Island UBL (unit-block-lot) Zoning Map
Table” (official zoning map table) which are on file in the office of the
city’s Recorder-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-005, passed 3-17-2026; Ord. 2026-
012, passed 6-16- 2026)
§ 152.002 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These regulations are adopted pursuant to authority granted by the
state’s General Assembly in A.C.A. Title 14, Chapter 56, Subchapter 4, as
amended.
   (B)   All membership in the various boards and commissions having authority
hereunder, acting prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall remain in
office and serve the remainder of their respective terms.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The planning and zoning regulations set forth herein are enacted to
aid in the implementation of the land use portion of the city’s Land Use Plan,
and to promote, in accordance with present and future needs, the safety, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare of the citizens. The regulations
are intended to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the public and
the orderly growth and development; for protection of the character and
stability of residential, commercial, industrial, recreational and
environmentally sensitive areas of the city; for protection of property from
blight and undue depreciation; for efficiency and economy in the process of
development for the appropriate and best use of land; for the use and occupancy
of buildings; for healthful and convenient distribution of population; for good
civic design and arrangement; and for adequate public utilities and facilities.
   (B)   The Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District is acknowledged.
      (1)   The city adopted its Planning Area Map that defined the territory
for which the city will develop and adopt land use zoning ordinances and
regulations.
      (2)   The properties within the Holiday Island Suburban Improvement
District (“HISID”) have been defined by a system of unit-block-lot or parcel
designations. It is the intent of the city that the existing lot and parcel
designations be adopted for continuity of identification.
      (3)   Most residential and commercial properties in the city are covered
by a declaration of reservations (commonly referred to as covenants) that are
unique to the unit in which the property lies. Although these covenants are
legal agreements between the unit property owners and are not binding upon the
city, it is the intent and desire of the city to preserve the available
declaration of reservations to the limits of the law placed upon municipalities
in the state and to the extent that these declarations of reservations remain
relevant.
      (4)   The city intends to develop and adopt ordinances and regulations to
work in conformity with the available declaration of reservations to the extent
possible pursuant to the state statutes.
      (5)   Lots and parcels in the various units have diverse dimensions, due
primarily to the terrain conditions upon which they are platted. There are lots
and parcels that do not fit the general description of the designated zoning
district precisely, but are included within the same zoning district to ensure
similar use as adjoining lots. The declarations of reservations include
similarly named use designations that differ from unit to unit. These
regulations will strive to align with the declaration of reservations where
applicable.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all land, water,
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the city as they now or
may hereafter exist.
   (B)   No action or decision by the City Council or Planning Commission
concerning any change in the zoning or use of property shall alter, limit,
impair or otherwise affect the authority, actions or responsibilities of the
Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District, or of any county or state
officials.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-010, passed 4-21-2026)
§ 152.005 NATURE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   For the purposes stated above, the city has been divided into zoning
districts in which the regulations contained herein will govern lot coverage;
the height, area, bulk, location and size of buildings; open space; and the
uses of land, buildings and structures. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare. Whenever these requirements are at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules or
regulations, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards, shall
govern; provided, however, that, the city shall not be responsible for
enforcing deed restrictions, restrictive covenants or declarations of
reservations.
   (B)   No land shall be used or occupied, no structure shall be erected,
moved, converted, altered, enlarged, used or occupied, and no use shall be
operated, unless it is in conformity with the regulations herein prescribed for
the district in which such structure or land is located. This provision shall
not be construed to affect any lawful uses of land or structures that exist, or
for which a lawfully issued permit has been issued, at the effective date of
these regulations.
   (C)   No proposed plat of any new subdivision of land shall hereafter be
considered for approval unless the lots within such plat equal or exceed the
minimum size and area requirements specified in the applicable zoning district
in which the land is located.
   (D)   No open space required by these regulations for a particular structure
or use shall be claimed at the same time as open space for another structure or
use.
   (E)   Dedication to public use of land shall not be a condition for any
zoning or conditional use approval.
   (F)   All structures constructed or occupied in conformance with these
regulations shall also conform to all other codes and regulations of the city.
   (G)   The provisions of these regulations are severable. If any section,
paragraph, sentence or clause shall be declared invalid, the remainder of the
regulations shall not be affected.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.006 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For these regulations, the following rules of construction shall apply.
   (A)   Words, phrases and terms defined herein shall be given the defined
meaning.
   (B)   Words, phrases and terms not defined herein, but in the Building Code
of the city, shall be construed as defined in such code.
   (C)   Words, phrases and terms neither defined herein, nor in the Building
Code, shall be given their usual and customary meanings, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (D)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
and any heading, drawing, table or figure, the text shall control.
   (E)   The particular shall control the general.
   (F)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive and not mandatory.
   (G)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words
used in the future tense include the present tense.
   (H)   Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   (I)   The words “building” and “structure” are synonymous, and include any
part thereof.
   (J)   The word “person” includes individuals, firms, corporations,
associations and any other similar entities.
   (K)   The words “lot”, “parcel”, “site”, “tract” or other unit of ownership
are synonymous and may be used interchangeably.
   (L)   The word “used” shall include arranged, designed, constructed,
altered, converted, rented, leased or intended to be used.
   (M)   All public officials, bodies and agencies to which reference is made
are those of the city, unless otherwise indicated.
   (N)   Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute,
regulation, map or document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most
recent edition of such resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, map or
document, unless otherwise expressly stated.
   (O)   Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or
another officer or employee to perform an act or duty, that provision shall be
construed as authorizing the department head or officer or employee to delegate
the responsibility to subordinates, unless the terms of the provision specify
otherwise.
   (P)   Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, the conjunction
“and” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or events
shall apply, and the conjunction “or” indicates that one or more of the
connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
   (Q)   Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or
if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for
a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced.
   (R)   The word CITY means the areas of jurisdiction of the CITY OF HOLIDAY
ISLAND, ARKANSAS.
   (S)   The word PERMITTED or words PERMITTED BY RIGHT mean(s) permitted
without meeting the requirements for a conditional use permit or site plan.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.007 DEFINITIONS.
   This section contains definitions of general terms used throughout the text
or may be added at a later date. It also contains definitions for the uses
identified in the text or intended to be used at a later date. The use
definitions are intended to be mutually exclusive, which means that uses that
are specifically defined shall not also be considered a part of a more general
definition of that use. The use “retail/service”, for example, does not include
the more specific use “convenience store”. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
   ACCESS EASEMENT. A right-of-way or parcel of land specified or set aside as
the way or means by which a piece of property is approached or entered, given
by the owner of land to another party.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES. A subordinate building or a portion of the
principal building, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the
dominant use of the principal building or land. An ACCESSORY USE is one that is
customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of
land and buildings. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES are located on the same lot,
or an adjoining lot, and in the same zoning district as the principal use.
ACCESSORY BUILDING may be defined as, but not limited to, fences and walls;
garages, carports and off-street parking and loading areas; gardens;
greenhouses; gates and guard houses; playhouses, patios, cabanas, porches,
gazebos and household storage buildings; radio and television receiving
antennas; recreational and play facilities for residents; storm and fallout
shelters; and other necessary and customary uses determined to be appropriate,
incidental and subordinate to the principal use on the lot.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A self-contained, and independently accessed,
living unit, on the same parcel as a single-family dwelling of greater square
footage, and that includes its own living, sleeping, cooking and sanitation
facilities. The ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT may be attached, detached or internal
to the single-family dwelling. If attached or detached, the ADU shall not be
more than 75% of the square footage of the principal dwelling, or 1,000 square
feet, whichever is less.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any adult cabaret, adult theater, adult bookstore,
adult massage establishment, model studio or sexual encounter or meditation
center which depicts or describes matters or activities relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL. The use of any land for the purpose of raising
livestock.
   AGRICULTURE, CROP. The primary use of any land for the purpose of growing
plants, crops, trees and other agricultural or forestry products. This does not
include hobby gardens, as an “accessory use”, for personal consumption of the
crop.
   AGRICULTURE, FARMER’S MARKET. Local resident’s temporary produce stands
selling personally-grown fruit, vegetables, farm products or provisions
participating in outdoor markets or special events organized, administered or
approved by the city.
   AGRICULTURE, PRODUCT SALES. The retail sale of agricultural products
produced on the same site.
   AIRPORT (AIRSTRIP). An area of land or water which is used, or intended for
use, for the landing and takeoff of aircraft and any appurtenant areas which
are used, or intended for use, for airport buildings or other airport
facilities or rights-of-way, together with all airport buildings and facilities
located thereon.
   ALLEY. A narrow public way, not in excess of 20 feet, which affords a
secondary means of access to abutting properties, and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   ANIMAL, FARM. Any animal that customarily is raised in an agricultural,
rather than urban, environment, for profit on farms and has the potential of
causing a nuisance if not properly maintained, including, but not limited to,
chickens, pigs, sheep, goats, horses, cattle, llamas, emus, ostriches, donkeys
and mules. This definition does not include hobby chicken, which is separately
defined in this section.
   ANIMAL CARE, GENERAL. A use providing animal care, veterinary services or
boarding.
   ANIMAL CARE, LIMITED. A use providing small animal (household pet) boarding
or veterinary services, with no outside runs.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms within a building with separate cooking,
bathing and sleeping facilities and intended as a single dwelling unit.
Structures containing five or more dwelling units are considered APARTMENTS.
   APPROVAL, CONDITIONAL. Approval of a plan, plat or activity by the
Commission subject to performance by the applicant of certain stipulated
conditions.
   AREA. The amount of land surface in a lot or parcel of land.
   ART DISPLAY, ORIGINAL. A hand-painted work of visual art that is either
affixed to or painted directly on the exterior wall of a structure with the
permission of the property owner. An ORIGINAL ART DISPLAY does not include:
mechanically produced or computer-generated prints or images, including, but
not limited to, digitally printed vinyl; electrical or mechanical components;
or changing image art display.
   AS-BUILT DRAWING. A document showing how a particular building and/or site
have been constructed.
   ASPHALT OR CONCRETE PLANT. An establishment engaged in the manufacture,
mixing, batching or recycling of asphalt, asphalt cement, cement or concrete
products.
   AUDITORIUM or STADIUM. An open, partially enclosed or fully enclosed
facility used or intended to be used primarily for spectator sports,
entertainment events, expositions and other public gatherings.
   AUTO WRECKING OR SALVAGE YARD. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof,
used primarily for the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of
machinery or vehicles that are not in operating condition, or for the sale of
parts therefrom; or for the collecting, storage and salvage of waste paper,
scrap metal or other discard material.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM). Unmanned electronic banking facilities at
which banking transactions may be accepted and/or cash disbursements made.
   BANK or FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Establishments engaged in deposit banking;
typically, commercial banks, savings and loans and credit unions.
   BAR (LOUNGE). An establishment that only sells/serves alcoholic drink for
consumption within the establishment. A BAR is not permitted to operate in any
district of the city.
   BASIC INDUSTRY. The first operation or operations that transform a material
from its raw state to a form suitable for fabrication.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. The use of an owner-occupied or manager-occupied
residential structure to provide temporary lodging, or lodging and meals, with
no more than 12 guest rooms.
   BEDROOM. A room for use as living quarters, within a dwelling, that includes
a closet and requisite number of exterior windows, of sufficient size and
placement, to conform to the National Fire Code.
   BILL OF ASSURANCE. A private agreement attached to a plat which establishes
property use and development rules specific to the properties in the particular
subdivision and which may be binding upon subsequent owners of the property.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond or
instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the city.
   BUILDING. Any structure including a roof supported by walls, designed or
intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals,
chattels or property and forming a construction that is safe and stable.
   BUILDING CODE. Regulations established by local governments describing the
minimum requirements for buildings; includes foundation, roofing, plumbing,
electrical and other specifications for safety and sanitation.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from highest part of the lot(s) upon
which building is constructed to the height of the highest roof surface.
   BUILDING LINES. The lines that are parallel to the front, side, or rear lot
lines of a lot at a distance equal to the minimum setback requirements, and
beyond which the vertical wall of a building or structure shall not be located
closer to said lot lines.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the plot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any structure
containing a dwelling unit of the largest square footage shall be deemed to be
the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the plot on which the same is situated.
   BUILDING SETBACKS. See SETBACKS.
   CAR WASH. A facility for washing or steam cleaning passenger automobiles,
pickups, service vehicles and light trucks (including a self-service
operation), operating either as a separate facility or when installed and
operated in conjunction with another use, and which installation includes
equipment customarily associated with a CAR WASH and is installed solely for
the purpose of washing and cleaning vehicles.
   CARPORT. Space for the housing or storage of motor vehicles and enclosed on
not more than two sides by walls.
   CEMETERY. Land used, or intended to be used, for burial of the dead, whether
human or animal, including a mausoleum, columbarium or cinerarium.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Permission to occupy a building and/or property.
   CHICKEN, HOBBY. Fowl that are being raised on non-agricultural lots as a
hobby instead of as a farming operation. HOBBY CHICKENS are used for the
production of eggs, garden fertilizer and meat production or as pets for non-
commercial purposes.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship, and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, including day cares, is maintained and
controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CITY. Unless specified otherwise within the context of the section, the City
of Holiday Island, Arkansas.
   CLUB or LODGE. An association of persons for the promotion of some non-
profit common purpose, such as charity, literature, science, politics,
fellowship and the like, meeting periodically, and limited to members.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the city designated by the Mayor to
administer and enforce this code.
   COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY. An institution of higher education offering
undergraduate or graduate degrees.
   COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION. Any clearing of the land, excavation,
construction or other substantial action that would adversely affect the
natural environment of the site.
   COMPLETION DATE OF PROJECT. A date established by agreement between the
Planning Commission and applicant as reached at time of preliminary plat
approval.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The city’s Land Use Plan adopted 10-19-2022. May include
a composite of the mapped and written proposals, as adopted by the Planning
Commission and City Council, whether in whole or in part, recommending the
physical development of the community. Said plan may include, but not limited
to, the Planning Area Map, Land Use Plan, Master Street Plan, Master Street
Plan Map, Zoning Map and Zoning Map Table for the city.
   CONDOMINIUM. A condominium (also called a CONDO) is a large property or
complex comprised of individual units, and each unit is owned separately.
Ownership usually includes a non- exclusive interest in certain “community
property” controlled by the condominium management. A condo owner owns the air
space inside their condo, sharing an ownership interest in the community
property, such as the floor, walls, sidewalks, stairwells and exterior areas.
Condominium management is usually made up of a board of unit owners who
oversees the daily operation of the complex, such as lawn maintenance and snow
removal.
   CONSTRUCTION SALES AND SERVICE. An establishment engaged in the retail or
wholesale sale of materials used in the construction of buildings or other
structures, as well as the outdoor storage of construction equipment or
materials on lots other than construction sites. Typical uses include
lumberyards, home improvement centers, lawn and garden supply stores,
electrical, plumbing, air conditioning and heating supply stores, swimming pool
sales and construction and trade contractor storage yards.
   CONTAINER HOUSING. A six-sided steel unit, intermodal shipping container,
originally constructed as a general cargo container used for the transport of
goods and materials that have been repurposed, on or off site, in compliance
with all of the International Building Code (IBC 2021) § 3115 et seq.
requirements for habitable occupancy. CONTAINER HOUSING (“container home”) is
subject to the same setbacks, height limits, minimum square footages, building
codes and permitting requirements as a site-built residential structure.
   CONTAINER, STORAGE. A unit such as, but not limited to, intermodal shipping
container, Conex box or light freight container (pods). A reusable cargo
container of a rigid construction and rectangular configuration; fitted with
devices permitting its ready handling, particularly its transfer from one mode
of transport to another; so designed to be readily filled and emptied; intended
to contain one or more articles of cargo or bulk commodities for transportation
by water or and one or more other transport modes. The term includes completely
enclosed units, open top units, fractional height units, units incorporating
liquid or gas tanks and other variations fitting into the container system. It
does not include cylinders, drums, crates, cases, cartons, packages, sacks,
unitized loads or any other form of packaging. (29 C.F.R. § 1918.2)
   CONVENIENCE STORE. An establishment, not exceeding 3,500 square feet of
gross floor area, serving a limited market area, and engaged in the retail sale
of food, beverages, gasoline and other frequently or recurrently needed
merchandise for household or automotive use, and which may specifically include
a car wash as an accessory use.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A chartered, non-profit membership club catering primarily to
its membership, providing one or more of the following social and recreational
activities: golf, tennis, swimming, riding or outdoor recreation. Such clubs
typically include dining facilities, clubhouses, locker rooms and pro shops.
   COVENANT. A provision in a deed limiting the use of the property and
prohibiting certain uses.
   DAY CARE, GENERAL (DAY CARE CENTER). A commercial establishment where adult
day care services are provided, or where child day care services are provided
for more than eight children; with both such services to be provided pursuant
to state laws and fire codes, and in accordance with, and licensed by
appropriate state agencies.
   DAY CARE, LIMITED (DAY CARE FAMILY HOME). The operator shall reside in the
structure, and the facility residential home must conform to all codes and
regulations, both state and local, applicable thereto, with the most
restrictive regulations prevailing. Section 102.4 of the Arkansas Department of
Human Services’ Minimum Licensing Requirements for Licensed Child Care Family
Homes states that a child care family home “requires licensing when one or more
persons care for six or more children, from more than one family at the same
time”. A maximum of 16 children may be cared for with a child care family home
license.
   DEDICATION. Land and improvements offered to the city and accepted by the
city for public use, control and maintenance. DEDICATIONS may include streets,
alleys, rights-of-way, utility easements, drainage easements or other easement
as appropriate.
   DEED. A legal document conveying ownership of real property.
   DETACHED STRUCTURE. A structure having no party or common wall with another
structure, except an accessory structure.
   DETENTION POND (BASIN). A storm water management facility designed to
protect against flooding and, in some cases, downstream erosion by storing
stormwater runoff for a limited period of time. Water stored by a DETENTION
POND is subsequently released at a controlled rate equal to or less than the
pre-development runoff rate that the facility is designed to maintain. A
DETENTION POND is intended to be dry, except during and after stormwater
producing events.
   DEVELOPER. The person, firm or corporation undertaking to develop a
subdivision or any other type of land development as defined in these
subdivision regulations.
   DEVELOPMENT. The act of changing the state of a tract of land after its
function has been purposefully changed by humans; including, but not limited
to, structures on the land and alterations to the land. DEVELOPMENT does not
include:
      (1)   Lawn and yard care, including mowing, gardening, tree care and
maintenance of landscaped areas;
      (2)   Removal of trees or vegetation damaged by natural forces; or
      (3)   The repair, maintenance or installation of a utility, drainage or
street system that does not disturb land or increase impervious cover.
   DEVELOPMENT OR SITE PLAN. A dimensioned presentation of the proposed
development of a specified parcel of land that reflects thereon the location of
buildings, easements, parking arrangements, public or private access and other
similar and pertinent features.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. Any portion or section of the city within which uniform
zoning regulations apply.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENTS. A facility where services or products are delivered
to persons in vehicles by means of a drive-up window or carhop.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof which is designed or used as living
quarters for one or more families having its own cooking, sleeping and
sanitation facilities, but not including motels, boardinghouses, tourist homes,
convalescent homes, travel trailers, mobile homes or manufactured housing.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling that is joined to another dwelling at one or
more sides by a wall or walls or contiguous roof.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling that is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
   DWELLING, LIVE/WORK. A building used jointly for commercial and residential
purposes on the same floor and where the residential use of the building is
secondary or accessory to the primary use as a place of work.
   DWELLING, LOFT LIVING SPACE. A dwelling unit located in a multi-story
structure where commercial and residential uses are vertically separated with
the commercial uses on the ground floor and the residential uses on the upper
floors.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied by five or more
families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels or motels.
   DWELLING, QUADPLEX. Four dwelling units attached at the side or sides or
contiguous roof, each unit of which has a separate outdoor entrance and is
designed to be occupied by one family per unit.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for residential living
purposes, occupied by one family only, and being on a permanent foundation.
Does not include travel trailers, mobile homes or manufactured housing less
than 24 feet wide. A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING may not have more than two adults
residing in the dwelling per established bedroom and may include minor
children.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE OR ROW HOUSE. Two or more single- or multi-story
dwelling units attached at the side or sides or contiguous roof. Each unit is
located on an individual lot, has a separate outdoor entrance and is designed
to be occupied and owned by one family.
   DWELLING, TRIPLEX. Three dwelling units attached at the side or sides or
contiguous roof, each unit of which has a separate outdoor entrance and is
designed to be occupied by one family per unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A dwelling designed for or occupied by not
more than two families living independently of each other, having singular
ownership of the entire two-unit dwelling and the land upon which it is
constructed and having no common interior connection between the units.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities for living, sanitation,
sleeping and cooking.
   DWELLING, ZERO LOT LINE. A single detached dwelling unit that is constructed
on a side property line of said lot such that the wall located on the side
property line should be “blank” with no openings of any type allowed.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner or trustee for the use by the public,
a corporation or certain persons of a strip described area of land for specific
purposes.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit that contains living, sanitation, sleeping
and cooking facilities, but not a separate bedroom for sleeping, for not more
than two adults.
   EMERGENCY HOUSING UNIT. A manufactured housing unit or residential-design
manufactured housing unit that is located on the same lot as a principal
single-family dwelling to be used solely for the purpose of providing temporary
accommodations for a family member in need of daily assistance due to health
reasons. Such reasons shall be certified by a licensed physician.
   ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer in good standing and licensed
to practice in the state.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a
group of not more than five unrelated persons living together and subsisting in
common as a single, non-profit housekeeping unit utilizing only one kitchen; a
FAMILY may include domestic servants employed by said family. A single-family
dwelling may not have more than two adults residing in the dwelling per
established bedroom and may include minor children.
   FARM. A parcel of land used for the growing or raising of agricultural
products, including related structures thereon.
   FENCE. A barrier constructed to provide privacy or visual separation between
one ownership and another.
   FINAL PLAT APPROVAL. Approval of a plat that is in conformance with the
preliminary plat along with all required financial guarantees.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. Provisions of the city’s Flood Damage Prevention
Code.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The floor area within the inside perimeter of the
exterior walls of the building under consideration, without deduction for
corridors, stairways, closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or
other features. The floor area of a building, or portion thereof, not provided
with surrounding exterior walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal
projection of the roof or floor above. The GROSS FLOOR AREA shall not include
shafts with no openings or interior courts.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The actual occupied area not including unoccupied accessory
areas such as corridors, stairways, toilet rooms, mechanical rooms and closets.
   FOWL. A domesticated “bird”, such as, but not limited to, a chicken, turkey,
duck, goose, guinea, grouse, quail, pheasant, swan, emu or ostrich.
   FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight, brought by motor
trucks or rail, is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or
interstate shipment by motor truck or rail.
   FRONTAGE. The edge of a lot bordering a street.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A street, parallel to and adjacent to a major highway or
thoroughfare, which provides access to abutting properties.
   FUNERAL HOME. An establishment with facilities for the preparation of the
dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of the body and for funerals.
Cremation facilities not covered by this definition.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for automobiles, vans, pick-up trucks and the like, used
solely by the occupants and the guests of the building to which it is
accessory.
   GOLF COURSE. A facility providing private or public golf recreation services
and support facilities, excluding miniature golf facilities.
   GOVERNMENT SERVICES. Buildings or facilities owned or operated by government
entities and providing services for the public, excluding utilities and
recreational services. Typical uses include administrative offices of
government agencies and utility billing offices.
   GREENHOUSE or NURSERY. An establishment primarily engaged in the raising and
retail sale of horticultural specialties such as flowers, shrubs and trees
intended for ornamental or landscaping purposes.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL. The use of a site for residential occupancy by groups of
more than five persons, not defined as a family. Typical uses include residence
halls and boarding or lodging houses.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any solid, liquid, semi-solid or gaseous waste, whether
alone or in combination, whether used, reused or reclaimed, which because of
its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality, or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness or
which may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment.
   HISID. Unless specified otherwise within the context of the section, the
Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District #1, Arkansas.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by the inhabitants
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which meets
all other applicable standards and use limitations as described herein.
   HOME OFFICE. An office space located within the principal building or
accessory unit in a residential zoning district which is used solely by one or
more occupants of the residential dwelling unit for conducting the business
affairs of their trade, profession or occupation.
   HORIZONTAL DATUM. At its most basic level of definition, a collection of
specific points on the earth that have been identified according to their
precise northerly or southerly location (latitude) and easterly or westerly
location (longitude) (National Geodetic Survey, 1986).
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient or medical or surgical care for the sick or injured, and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training and
research facilities, central service facilities, pharmacies and staff offices
which are an integral part of the facilities.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. An establishment where overnight and/or short-term
accommodations are supplied for transient guests. Typical accessory uses
include dining, swimming and meeting facilities.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any betterment of existing conditions of land such as, but not
limited to, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, trails, pavement, pedestrian
ways, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, storm water detention or
retention facilities, signs, monuments, landscaping, streetlights, fire
hydrants or other actions resulting in permanent changes in the condition of
the land.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering drawings showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities, excluding
dwelling units to be installed in conjunction with the development of the
subdivision.
   INCIDENTAL SUBDIVISION. The subdivision of land that does not require an
applicant to go through the complete preliminary and final plat process.
INCIDENTAL SUBDIVISIONS include lot splits, informal plats, property line
adjustments and correction plats.
   IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT. A legal financial instrument in the form
approved by the city. The instrument gives the right to a dollar amount to the
city to guarantee construction or maintenance of improvements in a subdivision.
   KENNEL. The use of land or buildings for the purpose of selling, breeding,
boarding or training dogs or cats or both, or the keeping of more than five
dogs and cats. The word “selling”, as herein used, shall not be construed to
include the sale of animals three months of age or younger which are the
natural increase of animals kept by persons not operating a KENNEL, as herein
defined; nor shall “selling” be determined to include isolated sales of animals
over three months old by persons not operating a KENNEL, as herein described.
   LAND SURVEYOR. An individual licensed to practice land surveying in the
state.
   LAND USE PLAN. A written plan with goals and objectives along with a map
depicting and describing present land uses and future land uses expected in the
city. This plan is approved by the City Council.
   LANDFILL. Also known as a tip, dump, rubbish dump, garbage dump or dumping
ground. It is a place to dispose of refuse and other waste material by burying
it and covering it over with soil. LANDFILL use is not permitted in any zoning
district of the city.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. The development of a parcel or a lot within a
platted subdivision. The term DEVELOPMENT shall include, but not be limited to,
the construction of a new improvement, the construction of an addition to an
existing improvement, or a revision of land use that results in the need for
access and utilities.
   LIBRARY. A publicly operated facility housing a collection of books,
magazines, audio and video tapes, or other material for borrowing and use by
the general public.
   LIQUOR STORE. A retail shop that predominantly sells prepackaged liquors -
typically in bottles - usually intended to be consumed off the store’s
premises.
   LOT. Land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in these
regulations, including one main building together with its accessory building
and/or a single accessory dwelling unit (ADU), and the open spaces and parking
spaces required herein, and having its principal frontage upon a street; or
also to be defined as land occupied only by an accessory building on a separate
adjoining lot and that both lots, with the subordinate accessory unit and the
principal unit, must be conveyed together in the future.
   LOT, AREA. The total horizontal area of a lot lying within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot that is an interior lot extending from one
street to another and abutting a street on two ends.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot which is not a corner lot or has double frontage.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A double frontage lot that is designed to be
developed with the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means
of ingress and egress provided on a minor street.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, the line separating said
lot from that street which is designed as the front street in the request for a
building permit.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the front
lot line. In the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an imaginary
line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line, as defined
herein.
   LOT LINES. The boundary lines of a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Circuit Clerk.
   LOT SPLIT. A subdivision which involves the dividing or redesigning of an
existing lot or lots within a block of a recorded subdivision and which does
not involve the vacating, widening, narrowing or change of alignment of any
thoroughfare, street, alley or easement, or involve improvements required by
these regulations.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot measured at the front building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK. A tract of land in one ownership that is used or
intended to be used by two or more manufactured housing units, and which has
public sanitary sewer facilities, public water, electricity and other utilities
available.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING SUBDIVISION. A tract of land, subdivided into lots of
individual ownership, that is used or intended to be used by two or more site-
built units, residential-design manufactured housing units or manufactured
housing units, and which has public sanitary sewer facilities, public water,
electricity and other utilities available.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT. A detached single-family housing unit fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as a permanent structure with transport features removed, bearing
a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. For purposes of these
regulations, the term MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT, when used by itself, shall not
mean the same as a “residential-design manufactured housing unit”.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT, RESIDENTIAL-DESIGN. See “modular housing.”
   MANUFACTURING, GENERAL.
      (1)   An establishment engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
storage, processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging of such
products, and incidental storage, sales and distribution of such products, but
excluding basic industry, as defined above.
      (2)   GENERAL MANUFACTURING uses may include, but are not limited to:
fabricated metal products, scrap metal processing, food and allied products,
furniture and allied products (large scale), glass products, millwork products,
plywood products, prefabricated structural wood, veneer products, paperboard
containers, lubricating oils and greases, foundry, stone products.
   MANUFACTURING, LIMITED. An establishment engaged in the manufacture,
predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or
parts, including storage, processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and
packaging of such products, and incidental storage, sales and distribution of
such products, but excluding basic industry, as defined above, in such a way
that is complimentary and not detrimental to neighboring commercial and
residential districts. Truck traffic, noise, odor, fumes and overall impact
must be minimal. All LIMITED MANUFACTURING uses may include, but are not
limited to: engraving, machinery, transportation equipment, fabricated wire
products, hardware products, metal stamping and forming, plated ware,
silverware, sporting goods, toys and fire- control equipment.
   MASTER STREET PLAN. The plan made and adopted by the Planning Commission and
accepted by the City Council classifying certain streets within the planning
area as arterial or collector streets.
   MEDICAL SERVICE. An establishment providing therapeutic, preventative or
corrective personal treatment services on an out-patient basis by physicians,
dentists and other licensed practitioners, as well as the provision of medical
testing and analysis services.
   MINING or QUARRYING. The extraction of metallic and non-metallic minerals,
including stone, sand and gravel operations.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built housing unit, fabricated prior
to 6-15-1976, the effective date for the Federal Mobile Home Construction and
Safety Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   MODULAR HOUSING. A habitable structure designed and manufactured for
residential use and constructed in one or more three-dimensional modules in a
factory to the prevailing state and local building codes, then transported to
the residential building site for final assembly and completion onto a
permanent foundation. For the purposes of these Planning and Zoning
Regulations, the phrase "manufactured housing unit, residential design" shall
be understood to be MODULAR HOUSING. For the purposes of these Planning and
Zoning Regulations, this definition shall also include Panelized Construction.
Panelized is a structure constructed in essentially flat units (factory-built
panels or factory-cut building materials), to the prevailing state and local
building codes, to be built and transported to the home site for final assembly
and completion onto a permanent foundation. MODULAR HOUSING is subject to the
same setbacks, height limits, minimum square footages, building codes and
permitting requirements as a site-built residential structure.
   MUSEUM. A building or institution that cares for and displays a collection
of artifacts and other objects of artistic, cultural, historical or scientific
importance.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure, or portion thereof, lawfully existing
at the time these regulations became effective, or as amended, which does not
comply with the setback, height or other development standards applicable in
the district in which the structure is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any structure or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time these regulations, or any amendment thereto, became effective, which does
not conform to the use or area regulations of the district within which it is
located.
   NURSING HOME. Any premises, including assisted living facilities, where more
than three persons are housed and furnished with meals and continuing nursing
services.
   OFF-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business, profession,
event, entertainment, product or service that is located, offered or sold
somewhere other than on the certain premises where the sign is erected.
   OFFICE, GENERAL. An establishment providing executive, management,
administrative or professional services, but not involving medical or dental
services or the sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a permitted use.
Typical uses include real estate, insurance, property management, investment,
employment, travel, advertising, law, architecture, design, engineering,
accounting and similar offices.
   OFFICE, LIMITED. An establishment providing executive, management,
administrative or professional services with no more than five employees, not
involving medical or dental services or sale of merchandise, except as
incidental to a permitted use. Typical uses include real estate, insurance,
property management, investment, employment, travel, advertising, law,
architecture, design, engineering, accounting and similar offices.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. The area of land that is designed to be accessible for
the use and enjoyment of all owners and/or tenants. This space may contain
complementary structures, recreational areas and other such improvements, but
shall not include parking lots or streets.
   OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE. An area of land owned or occupied by a property owner
or tenant and available for their private use and enjoyment.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES, (OUTDOOR LIGHTING). An outdoor illuminating device,
outdoor lighting or reflective surface, lamp or similar device, permanently
installed or portable, used for illumination, decoration or advertisement. Such
devices shall include, but are not limited to, lights used for buildings and
structures; recreational areas; parking lot lighting; landscape lighting;
architectural lighting; product display area lighting; building overhangs; open
canopies; and security lighting.
   OUTDOOR VENDORS. An individual or business selling food, goods or
merchandise, generally in a temporary location rather than a fixed storefront,
operating in various public or private locations with proper permits for a
special event, farmers market or similar venue, which may or may not conduct
its operations from a temporary stall, enclosure or mobile truck, van, trailer
and the like.
   OUT LOTS. Parcels or tracts of land proposed as part of a large-scale
development for future use or development, or as part of a subdivision as non-
conforming lots dedicated for storm water detention, public uses or use by a
property owners association, but not available for building purposes.
   OWNER. The property owner of record, according to the office of the County
Circuit Clerk.
   PARCEL. A division of land in contiguous ownership.
   PARKING, COMMERCIAL. A paved area for off-street parking of operable motor
vehicles on a temporary basis, other than as accessory parking to a principal
use.
   PARKS AND RECREATION. A park, playground, open space or facility, open to
the general public and reserved for active or passive recreational activities.
   PAVING. A substance which is concrete, asphalt, asphaltic seal coat over
rock base or any other approved quality paving material.
   PAWN SHOP. A shop where possessions are left in order to borrow money, or
buy objects that others have left there and that are now for sale.
   PEDESTRIAN ACCOMMODATION. To provide continuous pedestrian travel,
segregated from vehicular traffic, within the subdivision and the subdivision
boundary.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A separate right-of-way dedicated to or reserved for public
use by pedestrians, which crosses blocks or other tracts of land to facilitate
pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERFORMANCE BOND OR GUARANTEE. Any security which may be accepted in lieu of
a requirement that certain improvements be made before the Planning Commission
approves a final plat, including performance bonds by subdividers or
improvement contractors, escrow agreements, letters of credit and other similar
collateral or surety agreements.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A unified development of single-family
homes, condos and/or townhomes, designed to include open green space, and
sometimes including compatible recreational areas and/or commercial businesses,
where every property owner belongs to a property owners association (POA).
   PLANNING AND ZONING OFFICIAL. The administrative official designated by the
Mayor to administer the subdivision regulations, planning and zoning
regulations and any other development related regulations in the city.
   PLANNING AREA, MAP OR BOUNDARY. The area within the city’s territorial
jurisdiction for which the Planning Commission has determined it will prepare
plans and recommend ordinances and regulations; same being the HOLIDAY ISLAND
PLANNING AREA. The PLANNING AREA shall be the area in which provisions of the
city’s subdivision regulations shall apply.
   PLANNING COMMISSION, CITY. The advisory body to the City Council with only
those powers established within this code of ordinances, the planning and
zoning regulations, the subdivision regulations and as may be granted to it by
the City Council.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT, CORRECTION. A correction to an existing plat that is necessary due to
an incorrect legal description or scribner errors.
   PLAT, FINAL. A finished drawing showing completely and accurately all legal
and engineering information and certifications necessary for recording, and
includes the bill of assurance, if applicable.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a
subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate unquestionably its workability in
all aspect, but is not in final form for recording and the details are not
completely computed.
   PLAT, SKETCH. An informal plan of the proposed subdivision to be submitted
by the developer during the preapplication process, the purpose being to
acquaint the developer with city plans and policies relevant to the proposed
subdivision.
   POST OFFICE. A local branch of a national post office handling the mail for
a particular place or area.
   PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE. A meeting between planning officials and a
developer to give the developer an opportunity to obtain advice concerning a
proposed development or subdivision to avoid unnecessary costs or delays, and
to obtain informal guidance to prevent conflicts. This conference takes place
before submission of the formal application for approval of a plan or a
preliminary plat.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building on a lot in which the principal use of the
lot is conducted.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The chief or main recognized use of a structure or of land.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street or roadway that is privately-owned and maintained,
and has not sought public funding in the past for the maintenance of said road.
PRIVATE ROADS will not prohibit access by any police, emergency, utility or
other service vehicles.
   PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT. A transfer or adjustment of a property line that
does not create a separate, new lot. A PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT may or may not
dedicate right-of-way or utility easements.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Property restrictions established by the subdivider
and recorded with the final plat of the subdivision.
   PUBLIC. Pertaining to the whole community of the city; relating to, or
affecting that which concerns all the citizens, property owners and every
member of the community. The Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District
(HISID) is included as a body corporate, solely for the purpose of preserving,
maintaining and operating certain amenities and infrastructure within the city
and thus a vital part of this community.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A public or private business organization, subject to
governmental regulation, that provides an essential commodity or service, such
as water, sewer, natural gas, electricity, transportation or communication, to
the public.
   RE-SUBDIVISION. The changing of any existing lot or lots of any subdivision
plat previously recorded with the County Circuit Clerk. RE-SUBDIVISION includes
new townhouse or condominium projects, and the conversion of rental townhouses
or condominiums into private ownership. RE-SUBDIVISION also includes lots,
parcels, units and real property converted to timeshare units or estates.
   RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR. An establishment offering recreation,
entertainment or games of skill to the general public for a fee or charge, and
that is wholly enclosed in a building. Typical uses include bowling alleys,
indoor theaters, pool halls and video game arcades.
   RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR. An establishment offering recreation,
entertainment or games of skill to the general public for a fee or charge,
wherein any portion of the activity takes place in the open. Typical uses
include archery ranges, batting cages, golf driving ranges and miniature golf
courses.
   RECREATION TRAIL, FOOT AND BICYCLE. An urban paved or unpaved trail designed
for use by pedestrians and/or bicyclists to provide a recreational experience.
   RECREATION TRAIL, MOTORIZED VEHICLE. A trail that is designed to provide a
recreational experience. A primitive trail in an area where there are no
maintained roads or permanent buildings primarily used by motorized vehicles,
including, but not limited to, ATV, motorcycles and four-wheel drives.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. The use of a site providing individual spaces for
towed or self-propelled camping vehicles on a daily fee or short-term rental
basis.
   REPLAT. The act of platting the lots, parcels and easements in a recorded
subdivision or partition plat to achieve a reconfiguration of the existing
subdivision or partition plat, or to increase or decrease the number of lots in
the subdivision.
   RESEARCH SERVICE. An establishment engaged in conducting basic and applied
research, including production of prototype products when limited to the
minimum scale necessary for full investigation of the merits of a product,
excluding production of products used primarily or customarily for sale or for
use in non-prototype production operations.
   RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD. An establishment where the principal business is the
sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages in a ready-to-consume state, and where
the design or principal method of operation is that of a fast-food or drive-in-
style restaurant offering quick food service, where orders are generally not
taken at the customer’s table, where food is generally served in disposable
wrapping or containers, and where food and beverages may be served directly to
the customer in an automobile.
   RESTAURANT, GENERAL. An establishment, other than fast-food restaurant,
where the principal business is the sale of food and beverages in a ready-to-
consume state, where there is no service to a customer in an automobile and
where the design or principal method of operation consists of one or more of
the following:
      (1)   A sit-down restaurant where customers, normally provided with an
individual menu, are generally served food and beverages in non-disposable
containers by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter at which the
food and beverage items are consumed; or
      (2)   A cafeteria or cafeteria-type operation where food and beverages
generally are served in non-disposable containers and consumed within the
restaurant.
   RE-SUBDIVISION. The changing of any existing lot or lots of any subdivision
plat previously recorded with the County Circuit Clerk. RE-SUBDIVISION includes
new townhouse or condominium projects and the conversion of rental townhouses
or condominiums into private ownership. RE-SUBDIVISION also includes lots,
parcels, units and real property converted to timeshare units or estates.
   RETAIL/SERVICE. The sale or rental of commonly used goods and merchandise
for personal or household use or the provision of services to consumers,
excluding those retail and service uses classified more specifically herein.
Typical uses include grocery stores, department stores, furniture stores,
clothing stores and establishments providing the following products or
services: household electronic equipment, sporting goods, bicycles, office
supplies, home furnishings, electronics repair, shoe repair, household
appliances, wallpaper, carpeting and floorcovering, art supplies, kitchen
utensils, jewelry, drugs, self-serve laundries, dry cleaners, cosmetics, books,
antiques, automotive parts and accessories, antiques, books, banks, barber/
beauty, confectioneries, dress-making/millinery/tailor, dry goods, fine art
galleries, florists, hardware, meat/delicatessen, photographic studios or
stationary.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes
shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final
plat. Every RIGHT-OF-WAY is to be separate and distinct from the lots or
parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or
areas of such lots. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, trails, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency or utility company, shall be dedicated to public use by the maker
of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
   R.O.W. See RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   SAFETY SERVICES. A facility for conduct of public safety and emergency
services, including fire and police protection services and emergency medical
and ambulance services.
   SALVAGE YARD.
      (1)   Any parcel of land or building for which the principal or accessory
use is the storing, keeping, dismantling, collection, salvaging, buying or
selling of:
         (a)   Scraps or discarded pieces of metal, paper, rags, tires,
bottles, furniture and other materials; and/or
         (b)   Inoperable, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or discarded automobiles,
automobile parts, boats, campers, machinery, mobile homes, trailers or
appliances.
      (2)   SALVAGE/JUNK/WRECKER YARD shall not include premises on which such
uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, nor shall a
SALVAGE/JUNK/WRECKER YARD include premises used primarily for the sale or
storage of operable automobiles or for the overhaul or full repair thereof, so
long as no inoperable junk or wrecked automobile remains outside more than 90
days. Any premises on which there remains outside more than 90 days an
inoperable, partially dismantled, wrecked or junked automobile, shall be deemed
for the purpose of this chapter, a SALVAGE/JUNK/WRECKER YARD.
   SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE OR HIGH. The use of a site for instructional
purposes on a primary or secondary level.
   SERVICE STATION. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
gasoline or other motor fuels, that may include accessory activities, such as
the sale of lubricants, automotive accessories or supplies, the lubrication or
washing of motor vehicles or the minor adjustment or minor repair of motor
vehicles.
   SETBACK. The distance from the building line to the lot line or the proposed
right-of-way line, whichever is nearer.
   SHORT-TERM. A period of time less than or equal to 30 days.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit, or portion thereof, that is offered or
provided to a guest by a short-term rental owner or operator for a fee for
fewer than 30 consecutive nights, a form of tourist or transient
accommodations. They are commonly referred to as VACATION RENTALS.
   SIGN. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, names, identifications,
descriptions, displays or illustrations, (other than original art display),
trade names or trademarks by which anything is made known, such as are used to
designate an individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a
business, a service or a commodity, or product; which are affixed to, painted
or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, or other outdoor surface
which directs attention to or is designed or intended to direct attention to
the sign face or to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business; and which are visible from any public street or
right-of-way and designed to attract attention. Each display surface of a SIGN
or sign face must be considered to be a SIGN. A SIGN shall not include such
devices located completely within an enclosed building, not exposed to view
from a street, except for illuminated signs within display windows. A SIGN
includes any billboard, but does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of
any state, city or other political unit, or any political, charitable,
educational, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like campaign,
drive, movement or event.
   SIGN AREA. The space enclosed within the extreme edges of the sign on each
sign face, not including the supporting structure or where attached directly to
a building wall or surface; the space within the outline enclosing all the
characters of the words, numbers or design. If the sign lettering and/or logo
is not enclosed or framed in any way, then the area of the letters and/or logo
themselves may be considered the SIGN AREA.
   SIGN FACE. The entire display surface area of a sign upon, against or
through which copy is placed or reflected.
   SIGN, AWNING. A sign where graphics or symbols are painted, sewn or
otherwise adhered to the awning material as an integrated part of the awning
itself.
   SIGN, BANNER. Any sign made of fabric, vinyl or any similar non-rigid
material with no enclosing framework.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. Any off-premises structure or portion thereto upon which
are signs or advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does
not include any bulletin boards used to display government signs or as defined
as a temporary sign.
   SIGN, BULLETIN. Any sign, including, but not limited to, posters, boards,
bulletin boards and weather-proof bulletin boards; used for the purpose of
notification to the public of an event or occurrence of public interest, such
as a church service, political rally, civic meeting or other similar event,
where the information may change or be updated frequently.
   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign that is mounted, painted or otherwise applied on or
attached to a canopy or structural protective cover over an outdoor area.
   SIGN, COMMERCIAL. Any sign that is intended to attract attention to a
commercial or industrial business, occupancy, product, good, service or other
commercial or industrial activity for a commercial or industrial purpose.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION IDENTIFICATION. A sign which identifies architects,
engineers, contractors and other individuals or firms involved with
construction on premises, the name of the building or development, the intended
purpose of the building and/or the expected completion date.
   SIGN, CROWN. A wall sign extending not more than three feet from the
building facade located on the upper horizontal band of a building at least two
stories in height.
   SIGN, DIGITAL. An electronically displayed sign that is static or changes
messages by any electronic process or remote control.
   SIGN, DIGITAL BILLBOARD. An electronically displayed billboard that is
static or changes messages by any electronic process or remote control.
   SIGN, DIGITAL MESSAGE BOARD. An electronically displayed sign that is static
or changes messages by any electronic process or remote control.
   SIGN, DIGITAL POST. A permanently affixed sign which is wholly independent
of a building for support where the primary support is supplied by two posts.
   SIGN, ELECTRIC. Any sign containing electrical wiring. This does not include
signs illuminated by an exterior floodlight source.
   SIGN, FEATHER FLAG. The term FEATHER FLAG is used to distinguish it from
other types of custom flags. An advertising banner that is used to promote a
business, brand or event that is shaped like a bird’s feather. FEATHER FLAGS
are also known as FEATHER BANNERS, SWOOPER FLAGS or FLAG BANNERS.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use. For the purpose of this code, any moving illuminated sign,
except digital billboards, must be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. A government sign is a sign that is constructed, placed or
maintained by the federal, state or local government or a sign that is required
to be constructed, maintained by the federal, state or local government either
directly or to enforce a property owner’s rights.
   SIGN, HIGHWAY. A freestanding sign, integral sign or flat-mounted sign that
is erected and maintained within the view of motorists who are driving on a
highway.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign that is directly lighted by any electrical light
source, internal or external. This definition does not include signs that are
illuminated by streetlights or other light sources owned by any public agency
or light sources that are specifically operated for the purpose of lighting the
area in which the sign is located rather than the sign itself.
   SIGN, INTEGRAL. A sign that is embedded into the material of a building.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A free-standing and permanently affixed sign that is
supported by a solid base (other than poles) and such that no air space is
visible within or between any portion of the sign display area and sign
structure. A MONUMENT SIGN may identify a project or district, or mark an
entrance, which can incorporate a single or multiple licensed business listing.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any non-illuminated building-mounted identification sign,
six square feet or smaller, giving only the name, address and/or occupation of
an occupant or group of occupants of the building.
   SIGN, OFFICIAL. Signs on public property for informing the public.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business, profession,
event, entertainment, product or service that is located, offered or sold
somewhere other than on the premises.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. A sign that advertises goods, products or
services which are not sold, manufactured or distributed on or from the
premises or facilities on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any structure without a permanent foundation or otherwise
permanently attached to a fixed location, which can be carried, towed, hauled
or driven and is primarily designed to be moved rather than be limited to a
fixed location regardless of modifications that limit its movability.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign, other than a wall sign, that is mounted to the
wall or surface of a building or structure and which is supported by a wall of
a building or structure and projects from the building by 12 inches or more.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. Any temporary non-illuminated sign freestanding,
installed, erected or displayed on a property for the notification that a
building, premises or portion thereof is offered for sale, rent or lease.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign located on or above the roof of any building, not
including false mansard roof, canopy or other fascia.
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A moveable sign not secured or attached to the ground
or surface upon which it is located.
   SIGN, SHINGLE. A small projecting sign that hangs from a bracket or support
and is located over or near a property entrance.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A permanently affixed sign which is wholly independent of
a building for support attached along its entire width to a continuous pedestal
or wall that is used to identify the entry to or name of an entire development.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A banner, pennant, poster or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard, wallboard,
plywood or other like materials and that appears to be intended or is
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be displayed for a limited period
of time and/or not permanently attached to a structure or posts anchored below
the surface of the ground.
   SIGN, VEHICLE. Any sign attached to or displayed on a vehicle.
   SIGN, WALL. Any attached sign other than a projecting sign or a banner sign,
which is permanently attached to or painted on any wall of any building and
projects from the plane of the wall less than 12 inches. An integral sign shall
be considered a WALL SIGN.
   SIGN, WINDBLOWN. A fluttering, spinning, windblown or inflatable device,
including, but not limited to: pennants, streamers, propeller discs, tethered
blimps, fly guys or sky dancers (Tall Boy/Air Dancer, aka wacky waving
inflatable arm flailing tube figure).
   SIGN, WINDOW. An attached sign which is not a temporary sign and which is
attached to, painted on, etched or otherwise adhered to a window or which is
displayed within 12 inches of the window and is legible from outside the
window.
   SOIL BORROWING. Materials like soil or gravel are taken from a “borrow” pit
(sometimes called a sandbox) to be used in another location. These materials
may be used for grading, fill or mixing with other construction materials like
concrete.
   STORAGE UNITS, SELF. Storage units, two or more, joined at side and/or rear
walls, having an individual exterior door for each unit intended for rental to
individual parties.
   STORAGE YARDS. Outdoor areas used for storage of outdoor construction
equipment and materials, items for retail and wholesale sales, storage of any
other business-related materials and the like. All vehicles stored outside must
be currently licensed or operational.
   STORY. The horizontal segment of a building between the floor surface and
the ceiling next above it, and wholly above grade.
   STREET. The words STREET or ROAD are synonymous and may be used
interchangeably. STREETS are identified on the City Road and Street Map, the
Master Street Plan and plat mats of development plans.
   STREET, EXISTING. Any street that has a minimum width of 18 feet of hard
surfaced material. Gravel roads or roads which are in extremely poor condition
will not qualify as an EXISTING STREET for purposes of this regulation.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the street used for traffic or when curbs are
used the distance from back of curb to back of curb.
   STRUCTURE. Anything inanimate constructed or erected with a fixed location
on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground
including roof overhangs, carports, garages, porches and other similar
structures.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person dividing or proposing to divide land so as to
constitute a subdivision and includes any agent of the subdivider.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land into separate lots, units or
building sites for the purpose (whether immediate or future) of sale or
building development.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of land into three or fewer lots, parcels
or other divisions.
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. The territory surrounding the city, as defined in
state planning statutes, within which the city’s planning area is constrained.
   TOPSOIL. The upper, outermost layer of soil, usually the top two inches to
eight inches. It has the highest concentration of organic matter and
microorganisms.
   TOWER, COMMUNICATIONS. A structure designed to support antennas for
telecommunications and broadcasting and may include television, cellular phone
or wireless internet or radio signals.
   TOWING/VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD. Premises used primarily for the storage of
operable automobiles or wrecked vehicles until they are placed back in the
control of the owner and/or insurance company, so long as no operable
automobile, motor homes, motorcycles, inoperable junk or wrecked automobile
remains on site for more than 90 days.
   TOWNHOME. Two or more single or multi-story dwelling units attached at the
side or sides. Each unit is located on an individually owned lot, has a
separate outdoor entrance and is designed to be occupied and owned by one
family. Shared walls will establish property lines with no setback between
attached units.
   TRACT. A specified or limited area of land, normally measured by a metes and
bounds description.
   USE. Any functional, social or technological activity, which is imposed or
applied to land or to structures on the land.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner or trustee for the use by the
public, a corporation or certain persons of a described area of land by public
or private utilities.
   UTILITY, MAJOR. Generating plants, electrical switching facilities and
primary substations; water and wastewater treatment plants; water tanks; radio,
television and microwave transmission towers; and similar facilities of
agencies that are under public franchise or ownership to provide the general
public with electricity, gas, heat, communication, rail transportation, water,
sewage collection or other similar service. The term UTILITY shall not be
construed to include corporate or general offices; gas or oil processing;
manufacturing facilities; postal facilities; or other uses defined herein.
   UTILITY, MINOR. Services and facilities of agencies that are under public
franchise or ownership to provide services that are essential to support
development and that involve only minor structures, such as poles and lines.
   VACATION. Legal abandonment of a platted street right-of-way or easement.
   VARIANCE. An official dispensation to act contrary to a zoning regulation.
   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES. An establishment engaged in the retail sale or
rental, from the premises, of motorized vehicles, along with incidental service
or maintenance. Typical uses include automobile and truck sales, automobile
rental, boat sales, motorcycle sales, camper/motor home sales and trailer
sales. These provisions do not apply to machinery used for agriculture
purposes.
   VEHICLE REPAIR, GENERAL. An establishment primarily engaged in painting of,
or bodywork to, motor vehicles or heavy equipment. Typical uses include paint
and body shops.
   VEHICLE REPAIR, LIMITED. An establishment primarily engaged in automotive
repair other than paint and body shops.
   VERTICAL DATUM. Used to measure heights given on maps. The starting point
for measuring these heights are mean sea level points established at coastal
places.
   VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. A use providing education or training in business,
commercial trades, language, arts or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a “college or university” or “primary or
secondary school”.
   WAIVER. Permission from the Planning Commission to depart from certain
requirements herein.
   WAREHOUSE, RESIDENTIAL STORAGE (MINI-WAREHOUSE). An enclosed storage
facility containing independent, separate units or cubicles that are intended
to be leased to persons exclusively for dead storage of their household goods
or personal property. The active utilization of any storage space or cubicle
within such a storage area for a retail or wholesale business operation is
expressly prohibited.
   WAREHOUSING (ANCILLARY). The storage of materials, equipment or products
within a building for manufacturing use or for distribution to wholesalers or
retailers as a secondary use. Excludes residential storage warehouses. Not to
exceed 75% of the total building space.
   WAREHOUSING (PRIMARY). The storage of materials, equipment or products
within a building for manufacturing use or for distribution to wholesalers or
retailers, as well as activities involving significant movement and storage of
products or equipment. Typical uses include truck terminals, major mail
distribution centers, frozen food lockers, motor freight terminals and moving
and storage firms, but excluding residential storage warehouses.
   WELDING OR MACHINE SHOP. A workshop where machines, machine parts or other
metal products are fabricated. Typical uses include machine, welding and sheet
metal shops.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unobstructed from the
ground upward, and measured as the minimum horizontal distance between the lot
line and the main building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street right-
of-way line and the main building or any projections thereof other than the
projections of uncovered steps, uncovered balconies, terraces or uncovered
porches. On corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between the side lot
lines, and measured between the rear lot line in the rear of the main building
or any projection other than steps, unenclosed porches or entranceways.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot,
and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard, and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building
or any projection thereof.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Laws that control the use of land within the city.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-004, passed 3-17-2026; Ord. 2026-
006, passed 3-17- 2026; Ord. 2026-015, passed 7-21-2026)
§ 152.008 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   These rules and regulations shall be administered by the Planning
Commission and the city staff. The Commission may, from time to time, recommend
instructions and operating procedures to be followed in the administration of
these regulations to the end that the public may be better informed and that
approval of plats be expedited.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with all other, current and future, applicable rules,
regulations and laws including but not limited to the Land Use Plan, the Master
Street Plan and the planning and zoning regulations, Building and Housing Codes
and any other regulations adopted by the City Council and any regulations or
special requirements of the State Health Department, State Department of
Transportation or other appropriate state agencies.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.020 PLANNING AND ZONING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The provisions of these zoning regulations shall be administered by
the Planning and Zoning Official. The Planning and Zoning Official may be
provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Mayor may direct. It
shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Official to see that these
regulations are enforced through the proper legal channels. Appeal from the
decision of the Planning and Zoning Official may be made to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Official, and his or her designees, are
generally empowered to carry out or conduct any activities essential to the
proper administration and enforcement of these regulations; said activities to
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Permits. To issue a building permit and certificate of occupancy
when compliance is made with these regulations; to refuse to issue the same in
the event of non-compliance; and to give written notice of such refusal and
reason thereof to the applicant;
      (2)   Collections. To cause the collection of the designated fees as set
forth in these regulations;
      (3)   Records. To make and to keep all records necessary and appropriate
to the office, including records of the issuance and denial of all building
permits, and certificates of occupancy, and the receipt of complaints of
violation of these regulations and action taken on the same, and to file such
for record;
      (4)   Inspections. To inspect any building or land to determine whether
violations of these regulations have been committed or exist;
      (5)   Enforcement. To enforce these regulations and take all necessary
steps to remedy any condition found in violation. The city may enjoin any
individual or property owner who is in violation of these regulations to
prevent or correct such violation. Any individual aggrieved by a violation of
these regulations may request an injunction against any individual or property
owner in violation of these regulations or may mandamus any official to enforce
the provisions of these regulations; and
      (6)   Advisements. To keep the Mayor, City Council, City Planning
Commission and Board of Zoning Adjustment advised of all matters other than
routine that relate to the administration and enforcement of these regulations.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.021 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commence the construction, reconstruction,
moving, demolition or structural alteration of any building until a building
permit has been issued. No building permit shall be issued unless the proposed
construction or use is in full conformity with all the provisions of these
regulations and other applicable building codes, laws or regulations.
Compliance with paved parking and other site standards shall be achieved as a
condition a change of use for commercial, industrial and multi-family purposes.
   (B)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a
reproducible plan drawn to scale, showing the size of the building to be
erected and its location on the zoning lot, the location of any existing
buildings or structures, location and dimensions of all driveways and parking
or loading areas, drainage and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the administration of these regulations; such as, but not limited
to, topographic locations and dimensions of heights of structures.
   (C)   Site plans shall be required for all multi-family development
proposals of three units or more, as well as for all new commercial and
industrial development, and substantial redevelopment. Such plans shall be
reviewed and approved by the city’s Planning Commission. Site plan decisions by
the city’s Planning Commission shall be subject to appeal to the City Council.
Complete requirements for site plans are included herein.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.022 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Purpose and authority. Certificates of occupancy are required to
ensure that completed structures and the development of property of which such
structures are a part, comply with the provisions of this chapter, as well as
any site plans or conditional use approvals for such structures and
development. The Planning and Zoning Official shall have the authority and
responsibility to issue and keep records of certificates of occupancy in
accordance with the requirements set forth in these regulations and the
Building Code. A certificate of occupancy must be applied for, and issued by
the Planning and Zoning Official prior to occupancy and use of a structure or
premises for any of the following:
      (1)   Any new structure;
      (2)   Any addition to an existing non-residential structure;
      (3)   Any change in occupancy or use of a building or premises that
involves non-residential occupancy; and
      (4)   Placement or change in occupancy of any manufactured home on any
lot or parcel, regardless of use.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Official or his or her designated agent
shall inspect the property that is the subject of an application within a
reasonable time after a completed application has been filed and shall issue a
certificate of occupancy if the premises and the property comply in all
respects with the applicable development regulations in effect for the city. If
the premises do not so comply, the Planning and Zoning Official shall deny the
application in a written notice mailed to the applicant with five days,
excluding weekends and holidays, after the inspection of the property,
specifying the provisions of which regulation or code the structure or
development does not comply.
      (2)   A temporary conditional certificate of occupancy may be issued for
a portion or portions of a building that may safely be occupied prior to final
completion of the building. A temporary conditional certificate of occupancy
shall be valid for a period not exceeding one month, and may be renewed on a
monthly basis up to a total of six months. Such temporary conditional
certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as, in any way, altering the
respective rights, duties or obligations of the owner or of the city relating
to the use or occupancy or any other matter required by these regulations.
   (C)   Contents of certificate of occupancy. Information required for
submission to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall include:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Nature and extent of the applicant’s ownership interest in the
subject property;
      (3)   Address of the property for which a certificate is requested;
      (4)   A legal description of the property, the zoning classification for
the property and a statement that the use of the property is allowed or
permitted in the zoning classification for the property;
      (5)   A site plan for any new construction (same as required for a
building permit) for the structure or the development of which such structure
is a part is required; and
      (6)   Such other information as requested by the Planning and Zoning
Official to ensure conformance with applicable development regulations.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.023 AMENDMENTS.
   Two types of amendments to these zoning regulations are recognized: one
being a revision in the text provisions, and the other being a change of
boundary in a zoning district, also known as a map/table amendment or rezoning.
It is expressly understood that in exceptional circumstances, as may be
determined by the City Council, changes may be made by a majority vote of the
City Council as provided by the Arkansas Code.
   (A)   Text amendments.
      (1)   Initiation. Amendments to the text may be initiated by the city’s
Planning Commission, members of the City Council, or by the Mayor. Proposed
amendments shall be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this section.
      (2)   Notice. The Planning and Zoning Official shall be responsible for
scheduling a public hearing in keeping with the adopted planning calendar for
the city before the city’s Planning Commission. The city’s Planning Commission
Secretary shall prepare the content of a public notice, and ensure that the
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city at
least 15 days before the public hearing.
      (3)   Hearing and recommendation by the city’s Planning Commission. The
city’s Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed
amendment, hearing both the proponents and opponents, if any. Following the
public hearing, the Commission shall determine its recommendation(s) regarding
the proposed amendment and make such known by approval of appropriate
resolution(s) to the City Council.
      (4)   Action by the City Council. After receiving the recommendation of
the city’s Planning Commission, the City Council may: approve the amendment as
submitted; approve a revised version they deem appropriate; return it back to
the city’s Planning Commission for further study and reconsideration; table it;
or deny it. If the City Council action does not take place within three months
after the city’s Planning Commission’s public hearing, the amendment process
must begin anew.
   (B)   Rezoning amendments; change in district boundary. A change in a zoning
district boundary, also referred to as a map/table amendment or rezoning, may
be proposed by the City Council, the city’s Planning Commission or by a
property owner or his or her legal agent. Such amendments shall be considered
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
      (1)   Application submittal. A complete application for a change in a
zoning district boundary (or map/table amendment), hereafter referred to as a
rezoning, shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Official in a form
established for that purpose, together with a non-refundable processing fee to
the City Recorder-Treasurer in the amount set forth in §
152.024 of this chapter. Applications shall be filed in keeping with the
adopted planning calendar in order to be placed on the city’s Planning
Commission agenda for its meeting. No application shall be processed until the
Planning and Zoning Official determines that the application is complete and
the required fee has been paid.
      (2)   Notice.
         (a)   Promptly upon determining that the application is complete, the
Planning and Zoning Official shall schedule a public hearing date in keeping
with the adopted planning calendar for the city before the city’s Planning
Commission, notify the applicant of the hearing date, provide at least 15 days’
notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, as
well as send notice, by first class mail to the boards of directors of all
school districts affected by the application, shall be provided sufficiently in
advance to allow representatives of all affected school districts a reasonable
opportunity to submit comments on any proposed plan, ordinance or regulation.
The notice shall indicate the time and place of the public hearing; give the
general location and description of the property, such as the street address
and acreage involved; describe the nature, scope and purpose of the
application; and indicate where additional information about the application
can be obtained.
         (b)   The applicant shall post notice on weatherproof signs provided
by the city; place the signs on the property that is the subject of the
application at least 15 days before the public hearing; and ensure that the
signs remain continuously posted until a final decision is made by the City
Council. One sign shall be posted by the applicant at each of the subject
properties corner(s) abutting a public street. Instances when a subject
property does not abut a public street, one sign shall be placed at each of the
subject properties corner(s) abutting an access easement and shall also post
one sign at the intersection of said access easement and the public street.
Required public notice signage shall not exceed four signs. Signs shall be
placed along each abutting street in a conspicuous manner that makes them
clearly visible to neighboring residents and passers-by.
      (3)   Signed affidavit. Individual property owners applying for changes
to the official zoning map/table shall present a signed affidavit listing the
names and addresses notified, at least 15 days prior to the required public
hearing, that all property owners within 200 feet of the boundary of the
property requesting the rezoning, including those properties on opposing sides
of a public right-of-way upon which the subject property has frontage, have
been notified, via certified mail, of the proposed zoning change, including the
time, date and place of the public hearing.
      (4)   Hearing and recommendation by the city’s Planning Commission. The
city’s Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
rezoning. At the conclusion of the hearing, and after deliberation, the city’s
Planning Commission shall recommend approval as submitted; may recommend
approval of less area and/or of a lesser intensity, but similar classification
than what was applied for; table with cause, not to exceed one time for
consideration at the next meeting; or deny the application. The city’s Planning
Commission shall, regardless of the action taken, submit an accurate written
summary of the proceedings to the City Council.
      (5)   Hearing and action by the City Council. After the city’s Planning
Commission recommends approval of an application, the City Attorney shall be
responsible for preparing the appropriate ordinance and requesting that the
city’s Recorder-Treasurer place it on the City Council agenda. The City
Attorney and Planning and Zoning Official shall review the proposed rezoning
ordinance, prior to its placement on the City Council agenda, to verify that
the contents of the document and the property description therein, accurately
reflect the action taken by the city’s Planning Commission.
      (6)   City Council consideration. If the city’s Planning Commission does
not recommend approval of an application, the City Council may consider the
matter, but only after an appeal is filed by the property owner with the city’s
Recorder-Treasurer, within 15 days of the city’s Planning Commission’s final
action, and a special public hearing is set and subsequently held. Applicant
responsibility with regard to filing documents with the city’s Recorder-
Treasurer, as described above, is also applicable.
      (7)   Reduction. In considering an application for approval, whether on
appeal or not, the City Council may reduce the amount of land area included in
the application, but not increase it, and may change the requested
classification in whole or in part, to a less intense zoning district
classification than was indicated in the City Planning Commission’s required
public notice.
      (8)   Approval criteria. The criteria for approval of a rezoning are set
out in this section. Not all of the criteria must be given equal consideration
by the city’s Planning Commission or City Council in reaching a decision. The
criteria to be considered shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Consistency of the proposal with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Consistency of the proposal with the purpose of these
regulations;
         (c)   Compatibility of the proposal with the zoning, uses and
character of the surrounding area;
         (d)   Suitability of the subject property for the uses to which it has
been restricted without the proposed zoning map/table amendment;
         (e)   Extent to which approval of the proposed rezoning will
detrimentally affect nearby property including, but not limited to, any impact
on property value, traffic, drainage, visual impairment, odor, noise, light,
vibration, hours of use/operation and any restriction to the normal and
customary use of the affected property;
         (f)   Length of time the subject property has remained vacant as
zoned, as well as its zoning at the time of purchase by the applicant; and
         (g)   Impact of the proposed development on community facilities and
services, including those related to utilities, streets drainage, parks, open
space, fire, police and emergency medical services.
      (9)   Successive applications. In the event that the City Council denies
an application for a rezoning, a similar application involving any of the
property considered in the previous rezoning request shall not be considered by
the city’s Planning Commission for six months from the date of the denial by
the City Council, unless the city’s Planning Commission, upon recommendation by
the Planning and Zoning Official, determines that there is a significant change
in the size or scope of the project or that conditions have changed in the area
affected by the proposed rezoning.
      (10)   Appeals. Appeals from the approval of rezoning by the City Council
shall be taken to the Circuit Court of the county using the same procedure as
for administrative appeals of the District Court Rules of the Supreme Court.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.024 FEES.
   (A)   Fees. Fees shall be imposed, as set forth below, to cover a portion of
the cost of public notices and such other expenses as may be incurred in
connection with processing of applications, plan reviews, amendments, permits,
variances and other matters pertaining to the City Planning Commission,
Planning and Zoning Official and/or Board of Zoning Adjustment. A City Council
member may present a resolution to the City Council to waive or reduce
development permit fees otherwise required by this chapter or elsewhere within
the city regulations, where it is permitted. If the reduction or waiver would
serve the public interest, alleviate an unfair burden upon an applicant, or be
beneficial to the city as a whole, the City Council may grant such reduction or
waiver of permit fee.
   (B)   Fee schedule. Unless specific fees are otherwise adopted by the City
Council, the schedule of fees is set forth below.
      (1)   Subdivision fees.
Incidental subdivision application
Incidental subdivision application
   Lot splits, minor subdivisions, property line adjustments and correction $100
plats
Subdivision concept plat                                                       $50
Subdivision final plat
   Non-residential                                                          $800
      Up to 10 residential units                                         $200
      11-25 residential units                                            $400
      26 or more residential units                                       $800
Subdivision preliminary plat
   Non-residential                                                          $800
      Up to 10 residential units                                         $200
      11-25 residential units                                            $400
      26 or more residential units                                       $800
 
      (2)   Zoning.
 
Appeal of Planning Commission interpretation/decision $100
Conditional use application                           $100
CUA short-term rentals                                $150
Planning Commission or Board of Zoning Adjustment variance
   Before any violation has occurred               $25
   After any violation has occurred                $100
Rezoning application                                  $325
 
      (3)   Streets and sidewalks.
 
Driveway, curb cut, sidewalk and all other excavation in public right-of- $25
way
 
      (4)   Permanent signs.
 
Permit for where a CUP is not needed $50
 
      (5)   Supplementary permit fees.
         (a)   Emergency, investigative and after hour(s). In addition to the
permit fee, an emergency fee for after hours inspection, investigations and
emergency inspections shall be $20 per inspection.
         (b)   Re-inspection.
            1.   For a re-inspection to correct a violation(s) and/or if
installation is not ready for requested inspections the fee shall be $25. For
each subsequent re-inspection, the fee shall be double the amount of the
previous fee, with a maximum of $200.
            2.   All re-inspect fees must be paid prior to the inspection
taking place.
         (c)   Affordable housing and homeless shelters. Construction of
single-family non-profit multi-family supportive housing and homeless shelters
funded wholly or primarily by federal community development block grants, non-
profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, Housing and Urban
Development housing loans and similar programs designed to provide affordable,
owner-occupied, single-family residences to low income individuals, non-profit
multi-family supportive housing and homeless shelters shall be exempted from
payment of building permit fees.
         (d)   City-owned facilities. Construction projects that occur on city-
owned properties for facilities that are partially or wholly owned by the city
shall be exempted from payment of building permit fees.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Before any action shall be taken as provided in these regulations,
the applicant shall submit a non-refundable processing fee to the City
Recorder-Treasurer, with the application in accordance with the city codes.
      (2)   Under no condition shall said sum or any part thereof be refunded
for failure of said action to be approved by the city.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.035 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   The city’s Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby established, which shall be
the five members of the Holiday Island City Planning Commission. Members of the
Board of Zoning Adjustment, prior to adoption of this change in membership,
that are not Planning Commissioners shall continue to serve to the end of their
appointed term on the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-016, passed 7-21-2026)
§ 152.036 ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of
its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of these regulations.
   (A)   Meetings shall be held on a regular schedule, typically on the same
date as the Holiday Island City Planning Commission meeting, in keeping with
the adopted planning calendar, and at such other times as the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may determine. Public notification shall be made by publication of
the agenda for the meetings in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
at least one time, seven days in advance of the meetings.
   (B)   All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall keep minutes of its votes, indicating such fact and it shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be a public record.
   (C)   A quorum of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be three members. The
concurring vote of a majority of the total Board of Zoning Adjustment members
shall be necessary to revise any order or decision of the Planning and Zoning
Official, or to decide on any matter upon which it is required to pass.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Official shall attend each meeting of the
Board of Zoning Adjustment and shall bring all plans, specifications, plats and
papers relating to any case before the Board of Zoning Adjustment for
determination.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-016, passed 7-21-2026)
§ 152.037 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have all the powers and duties
prescribed by law and by these regulations, which are more particularly
described as follows.
   (A)   Administrative review.
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by administrative
officers in the enforcement of these regulations; and
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may affirm or reverse, in whole or
in part, said decision of the Administrative Official.
   (B)   Authorizing variances. To authorize upon appeal, in specific cases,
such variance from the terms of this zoning chapter as will not be contrary to
the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship
that would deprive the owner of any reasonable use of the land or building
involved. A variance from the terms of these zoning regulations, shall not be
granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   The applicant demonstrates that special conditions and
circumstances exist which are peculiar to the land, structure or building
involved and which are not applicable to other lands, structures or buildings
in the same district; that literal interpretation of the provisions of these
regulations would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district under the terms of these regulations; that
special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the
applicant; and that granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the zoning regulations to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      (2)   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings
in the same district and no permitted or non-conforming use of lands,
structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance;
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall further make a finding that
the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance,
and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of land, building or structure;
      (4)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall further make a finding that
the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of these zoning regulations and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;
      (5)   In granting any variance, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards that it deems necessary or
desirable. Any prescribed conditions or safeguards for granting any variance
shall become part of the approved building permit. Violations of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of these regulations; and
      (6)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Zoning Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of these zoning
regulations in the district involved, or any use expressly, or by implication,
prohibited by the terms of these regulations in said district.
   (C)   Special exceptions. In addition to the powers and duties specified
above, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall also have the following powers and
duties to hold public hearings and decide the following special exceptions:
      (1)   Interpret zoning district boundaries, upon appeal of the
Administrative Official’s determination and where uncertainty exists, as to the
boundaries of the zoning districts, or when the street or property lines
existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the zoning district
map;
      (2)   Determine the amount of parking required for a use not listed
herein; and
      (3)   Vary the parking regulations by not more than 25% where it is
conclusively shown that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary
the parking spaces otherwise required by these regulations.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.038 MEETING AND NOTICE FOR VARIANCE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall schedule a public hearing
meeting in keeping with the adopted planning calendar for the city and give
meeting notice of the time and place thereof. Meeting notice shall be published
at least one time, 15 days preceding the date of such meeting, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city.
      (2)   The meeting notice shall give the particular location of the
property on which the application is requested, as well as a brief explanation
of the variance request. Additionally, the city’s Planning Commission Secretary
shall provide notice by first class mail to the boards of directors of the
school districts affected by this matter.
   (B)   Individual property owners applying for a variance shall present a
signed affidavit, at least 15 days prior to the required public hearing, that
all property owners within 200 feet of the boundary of the property requesting
the variance, including those properties on opposing sides of a public right-
of-way upon which the subject property has frontage, have been notified, via
certified mailing, of the proposed variance, including the time, date and place
of the public meeting
   (C)   (1)   Public notice shall also be provided by the applicant via
conspicuous posting of said public notice on weather-proof signs provided by
the city. The applicant shall place the sign(s) on the property that is the
subject of the application at least 15 days before the public meeting; and
ensure that the sign(s) remain continuously posted until a final decision is
made by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
      (2)   One sign shall be posted by the applicant at each of the subject
properties corner(s) abutting a public street. Instances when a subject
property does not abut a public street, one sign shall be placed at each of the
subject properties corner(s) abutting an access easement and shall also post
one sign at the intersection of said access easement and the public street.
      (3)   Required public notice signage shall not exceed four signs. Signs
shall be placed in a conspicuous manner that makes them clearly visible to
neighboring residents and passers-by.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.039 APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL DECISIONS.
   (A)   Scope of appeal. Any person, with a vested interest, aggrieved by an
administrative decision in interpreting any section of these planning and
zoning regulations may make an appeal.
   (B)   Applications for appeals. All applications for appeal shall be on
forms provided by the city and include the following minimum information:
      (1)   Summary of any reasons provided by the Administrative Official
concerning the decision made in the case;
      (2)   Reasons why the applicant of the appeal contends that the
Administrative Official erred in its decision; and
      (3)   Any new and pertinent information bearing on the case not
previously considered by the Administrative Official that came to light
following the time at which the Administrative Official made his, her or their
decision.
   (C)   Notice of appeal. Notice of an appeal shall be filed by the applicant
or any other party with legal standing with the Board of Zoning Adjustments
through the City Recorder-Treasurer within 30 calendar days of the decision
together with such non-refundable appeal processing fee according to the
adopted fee schedule in §
152.024 of this chapter.
   (D)   Public notice.
      (1)   Following receipt of the notice of appeal, the City Recorder-
Treasurer shall inform the Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Adjustment to set
the matter for consideration on the Board of Zoning Adjustment’s next available
agenda and give due notice to interested parties of the time and place of the
meeting.
      (2)   Notice of such hearing shall be published at least one time and at
least 15 calendar days prior to the date of the meeting in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.040 APPEALS TO BOARD DECISIONS.
   Any person or persons, or any board, taxpayer, department, board or bureau
of the city aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall
take his, her or their grievance to the Circuit Court of the county using the
same procedure as for administrative appeals of the District Court Rules of the
Supreme Court.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 152.055 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following zoning districts, which may be referred to by their
abbreviations, are hereby established:
   (A)   Base zoning districts:
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
C-1  Neighborhood Commercial
C-2  Limited Commercial
C-3  General Commercial
C-4  Commercial Trades and Services
DP   Deficient Property
G-C  Government - City of Holiday Island
G-F  Government - Federal or State Control
H-C  Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District Commercial
H-G  Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District Green Space
I-L  Light Industrial
I-M  Medium Industrial
R-1  Low Density Single-Family Residential
R-1M Single-Family and Manufactured Homes Residential
R-2  Medium Density Two-Family Residential
R-3  Multi-Family Residential
R-MH Residential Manufactured Homes
RW   Rural Wooded
 
   (B)   Overlay and special purpose zoning districts:
 
PUD Planned Unit Development District
 
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.056 ZONING DISTRICT HIERARCHY.
   References in this chapter to less restrictive and more restrictive zoning
districts refer to the base zoning districts established above; and represent a
progression from the R-1 District as the most restrictive base district to the
I-M District as the least restrictive base district. Overlay, special purpose,
H, G, RW and DP Districts are not included in the zoning district hierarchy.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.057 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARY MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established herein
are defined as shown on a map entitled “City of Holiday Island, Arkansas Zoning
Map”, which is on file in the office of the City Recorder-Treasurer. This map,
together with all explanatory data thereon and attached “City of Holiday Island
UBL (UNIT-BLOCK-LOT) Zoning Map Table”, is hereby adopted by reference, and
declared to be a part of these regulations. The official zoning map shall be
certified as such by signature of the Mayor and the City Planning Commission
Chairperson, attested by the City Recorder-Treasurer.
Current LINK to Zoning Map Table: ZoningMapTable.pdf_-_Google_Drive 
   (B)   If, in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, changes
are made in zoning district boundaries or other data portrayed on the attached
official zoning map table and/or the official zoning map, such changes shall be
made on said map or attachment within 30 days after the amendment has been
approved by the City Council.
   (C)   No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or
information shown thereon or attached official zoning map table, except in
conformity with the procedures set forth in these regulations. Any unauthorized
change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a
violation of these regulations.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map and official zoning map table, which may from time to time be made or
published, the official zoning map and official zoning map table located in the
office of the City Hall, shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of property within the city limits.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-005, passed 3-17-2026; Ord. 2026-
012, passed 6-16- 2026)
§ 152.058 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts shown on the
official zoning map, together with all explanatory data thereon and the
attached official zoning map table, the Planning and Zoning Official and/or the
City Planning Commission shall employ the following rules in interpretations
thereof. Decisions of the Planning and Zoning Official are subject to appeal to
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following waterways shall be construed to be
following the thread of the stream.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of features
mentioned in the preceding rules, shall be so construed.
   (G)   Where distance is not specifically indicated on the official zoning
map, as is typically the case with unsubdivided property, distance shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.059 CLASSIFICATION OF ANNEXED LANDS.
   (A)   All lands proposed for annexation shall be assigned zoning district
classification(s) that will become effective at the same time the annexation
becomes final.
   (B)   The map amendment procedures contained herein shall be followed in
assigning said classification(s).
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.060 VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated or abandoned by
action of the City Council pursuant to law, the zoning district classification
of the property to which the vacated portions of land accrue, shall become the
classification of the vacated land.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.061 PARCELS/LOTS ASSIGNED UNIT-BLOCK-LOT DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   All parcels and lots within the city municipal limits, property not
identified by a unit-block-lot, shall be assigned a unique unit-block-lot
designation by the city’s Planning Commission and determine the appropriate
zoning classification.
   (B)   Whenever any parcel is subdivided into lots, the city’s Planning
Commission shall assign a unique unit-block-lot number for each lot. The County
911 Coordinator shall assign the street address for each lot. The zoning
classification for each lot shall remain the same as the parcel that has been
subdivided.
   (C)   All changes in unit-block-lot designations or zoning classifications
shall be made on the official zoning map and the official zoning map table,
approved by the City Council, and the City Recorder- Treasurer shall report the
changes to the County Assessor and the Holiday Island Suburban Improvement
District (“HISID”).
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.075 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   There are five districts designed to meet present and future housing needs;
to protect the character of, and property values in, residential areas; to
encourage a suitable environment for family life; and to provide choice in
density, as well as in type of housing.
   (A)   One of the districts is for low-density single-family uses and are
intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not
performing a function necessary to the low density, residential environment.
   (B)   One district is intended for medium-density single-family uses, and
one exists for multi-family residential uses.
   (C)   One district is intended for affordable housing single-family uses.
More specific descriptions of the residential districts are as follows and it
is the intent and desire of the city that all zoned areas be served by the
HISID water and sanitary sewer service.
   (A)   R-1, Low Density Single-Family Residential District.
      (1)   This district is characterized by single-family residential
development on lots of not less than 10,000 square feet, with maximum density
not exceeding four units/acre. The purpose of this district is to accommodate
single-family residential uses with one residence per lot supporting religious,
recreational and institutional uses.
      (2)   However; in R-1 Districts, a single-family residence can optionally
be constructed on two adjoining lots that share the same street frontage, with
the principal building occupying one lot and one detached accessory structure
on the adjoining lot. In all these cases, a conditional use permit as set forth
in §§
152.125 through
152.128 and
152.164 of this chapter is required.
      (3)   If the permit is granted, the lot lines crossed shall no longer be
subject to setback requirements and all lots shall be considered developed
(improved); also the structure or property deeds must meet one of the following
conditions for the conditional use permit to be granted:
         (a)   The structure must have a common roof structure, connecting
breezeway, common foundation wall or some other permanent and inseparable
construction feature that prevents any of the involved lots from being sold
separately (which would cause one or more lots to be left with a non-conforming
detached accessory use structure);
         (b)   Must satisfy the conditions of §
152.164(A) of this chapter; and
         (c)   This section shall not be construed to restrict, prohibit or
otherwise regulate the use of an accessory dwelling unit (ADU).
   (B)   R-2, Medium Density Two-Family Residential District.
      (1)   This district is characterized by single-family residential
development on lots of not less than 5,000 square feet, with maximum density
not exceeding eight units/acre. The purpose of this district is intended to
provide two-family duplex or townhome residential uses, each unit of each
duplex or townhome on an individual lot.
      (2)   This district serves as a buffer in providing for a step-down in
intensity from higher to lower density residential and other types of
development.
   (C)   R-3, Multi-Family Residential District.
      (1)   This district is characterized by single-family residential
development on lots of not less than 2,500 square feet, with maximum density
not exceeding 16 units/acre.
      (2)   The purpose of this district is intended to provide single-family
residential multi-family development uses and is characterized by traditional
apartment-type, and townhome units in attached living complexes, not exceeding
four units per attached living complex. Condominium complexes shall be on lots
not less than 5,000 square feet and of a size not less than twice the aggregate
square footage of the condominium and attachments, not exceeding four units per
attached living complex. Congregate housing for the elderly is also anticipated
in this zone. This district also serves as a buffer between lower density
residential uses and commercial uses and other types of development.
   (D)   R-1M, Single-Family and Manufactured Homes Residential District. This
district is characterized by single-family residential development on lots of
not less than 10,000 square feet, with maximum density not exceeding four
units/acre. The purpose of this district is intended to provide for single-
family site-built housing and manufactured housing units placed on individual
lots, on a code permitted permanent foundation with the transport features
removed.
   (E)   R-MH, Single-Family Manufactured Home District.
      (1)   This district is characterized by single-family residential
development on lots of not less than 5,000 square feet, with maximum density
not exceeding eight units/acre. This district encourages affordable housing of
varied types in specified locations within the city.
      (2)   This district is characterized by residential-design manufactured
housing units, and/or manufactured housing units placed on individually owned
lots in manufactured housing subdivisions as well as manufactured housing
parks. Each housing unit shall be installed on a code permitted permanent
foundation, with the transport features removed. Areas so classified must have
all municipal services available.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.076 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted in the residential districts are set forth in the
following table. Where the letter “P” appears opposite a listed use and
underneath a residential district, the use is permitted in that district “by
right” subject to:
      (1)   Providing off-street parking and loading facilities as required by
§
152.195 of this chapter;
      (2)   Providing landscaping and screening; and
      (3)   Conformance with special conditions applying to certain uses as set
forth in §§
152.125 through
152.128 of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the letter “C” appears instead of “P”, the use is permitted
subject to acquiring a conditional use permit as set forth in §§
152.125 through
152.128 of this chapter. Where neither “P” nor “C” appears, and “NP” appears in
the table, the use is not permitted.
   (C)   When a use is proposed that is not listed in this chapter, the city’s
Planning and Zoning Official and/or the city’s Planning Commission shall
recommend the appropriate districts based on land uses that are similar in
size, bulk and traffic generation. If the applicant does not agree with this
interpretation, he or she may appeal the interpretation to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment.
Residential Zoning Districts R-1 R-1M R-2 R-3 R-MH
Residential Zoning Districts                R-1 R-1M R-2 R-3 R-MH
AGRICULTURE USES
   Agriculture, animal                   NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Agriculture, crop                     NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Agriculture, product sales            NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Animal, farm                          NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Chicken, hobby                        P   P    NP  NP  NP
CIVIC AND COMMERCIAL USES
   Airport: or airstrip                  NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Animal care, general                  NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Animal care, limited                  NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Automated teller machine              NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Bed and breakfast                     C   C    C   C   C
   Cemetery                              NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Church                                C   C    C   P   NP
   Club or lodge                         NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   College or university                 NP  NP   NP  C   NP
   Communication tower                   C   C    C   C   C
   Container, shipping (accessory buildinNP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Convenience store                     NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Day care, limited (family home)       P   P    P   P   P
   Day care, general                     NP  NP   NP  C   C
   Golf course                           C   C    C   C   C
   Government service                    C   C    C   C   C
   Hospital                              NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Library                               C   C    C   P   NP
   Liquor store                          NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Medical services                      NP  NP   NP  C   C
   Museum                                C   C    C   C   C
   Nursing home                          NP  NP   NP  C   NP
   Outdoor vendors                       NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Parks and recreation                  C   C    C   C   C
   Post office                           NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Recreation/entertainment, outdoor     C   C    C   C   C
   Recreation trail, foot and bicycle    C   C    C   C   C
   Recreation trail, motorized vehicles  NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Restaurant, general                   NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Safety services                       NP  NP   NP  C   NP
   School, elementary/middle             C   C    C   P   C
   Short-term rental                     C   C    C   C   C
   Utility, major                        C   C    C   C   C
   Utility, minor                        C   C    C   C   C
   Vocational school                     C   C    C   C   C
MANUFACTURING AND EXTRACTIVE USES
   Asphalt or concrete plant             NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Mining or quarrying                   NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Sod farm                              NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Topsoil                               NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
RESIDENTIAL USES
   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU)         P   P    NP  NP  NP
   Container housing (container home)    NP  P    NP  NP  NP
   Container, shipping (accessory buildinNP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Duplex                                NP  NP   P   P   NP
   Emergency housing unit                NP  NP   NP  NP  NP
   Group residential                     NP  NP   NP  C   C
   Manufactured housing park             NP  NP   NP  NP  P
   Manufactured housing unit             NP  NP   NP  NP  P
   Modular housing                       P   P    P   P   P
   Multi-family                          NP  NP   NP  P   NP
   Single-family detached                P   P    P   NP  NP
   Townhome/condominum                   NP  NP   C   P   NP
   Triplex and/or quadplex               NP  NP   NP  P   NP
 
   (D)   (1)   Only one principal structure per lot shall be permitted in R-1,
R-2, R-3, R-1M and R-MH districts which shall be single-family districts
residential development. See division (O) below for alternative to only one
principal structure per lot.
      (2)   In addition to the accessory uses provided for in §§
152.105 through
152.111 , an accessory structure may be permitted for sheltering riding horses
on a residential zoned lot or parcel with a minimum area of two acres, provided
that:
         (a)   The structure is at least 100 feet from adjacent property lines;
         (b)   No more than two horses are kept and sheltered on the property;
and
         (c)   The stall area does not exceed 450 square feet.
   (E)   Lot, yard and height regulations.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no lot or yard shall be
established or reduced in dimension or area in any residential district that
does not meet the minimum requirements set forth below; nor shall any building
or structure be erected or enlarged that will cause the maximum lot coverage or
maximum height regulations to be exceeded for such district as set forth below.
         (b)   A listing of supplements and exceptions to these regulations
follows the table.
      (2)   Minimum dimension requirements as set forth below.
Residential Minimum Square Footage
     Declaration                            Area under Roof - Including
     of          Enclosed Heated Area       Covered Contiguous Porch/Patio/
Unit Reservation                            Garage
     Date        R-1/R-1M R-2 each R-3 each R-1/R-1M R-2 each R-3 each unit
                          unit (1) unit (1)          unit (1) (1)
Residential Minimum Square Footage
            Declaration                            Area under Roof - Including
            of          Enclosed Heated Area       Covered Contiguous Porch/
Unit        Reservation                            Patio/Garage
            Date        R-1/R-1M R-2 each R-3 each R-1/R-1M R-2 each R-3 each
                                 unit (1) unit (1)          unit (1) unit (1)
104 - n/a   n/a         n/a      X        n/a      n/a      X        n/a
108 - n/a   n/a         X        X        n/a      X        X        n/a
123 - n/a   n/a         n/a      X        X        n/a      X        X
127 - n/a   n/a         X        X        n/a      X        X        n/a
128 - n/a   n/a         n/a      X        X        n/a      X        X
129 - n/a   n/a         n/a      X        X        n/a      X        X
301 Block 5 10/29/12    1,700    X        X        rm       X        X
302 Block 2 09/25/19    rm       rm       X        rm       rm       X
304 - n/a   n/a         n/a      X        X        n/a      X        X
Notes to Table:
Note (1) = R-2 has 2 dwelling units; R-3 has 3 or 4 dwelling units
Note (2) = ground floor of 2-story dwelling not less than 600 sq ft.
n/a = Declaration of reservation not available for inspection
rm = Declaration of reservation minimum requirement missing
X = This residential zone not permitted in this unit
 
   (F)   When an existing lot is reduced because of conveyance to a federal,
state or local government for a public purpose, and the remaining area is at
least 75% of the required minimum lot size for the district in which it is
located, then that remaining lot shall be deemed to comply with minimum lot
size requirements.
   (G)   Utility facilities, using land or an unoccupied building requiring
less than 1,000 square feet of site area, are exempt from minimum lot size
requirements of all districts.
   (H)   Minimum lot size requirements shall not be interpreted as prohibiting
the construction of a single-family residential dwelling unit on a lot that was
legally platted and recorded before the adoption of these regulations. For lots
that are rendered non-conforming, the necessity of obtaining a variance from
such created non-conformity shall not be required as a condition of issuance of
a building permit; provided, all setback and other requirements can be met.
   (I)   Certain architectural features may project into required yards
(setback) as follows.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies, eaves or other architectural features may
project a distance not to exceed 30 inches.
      (2)   Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding four and one-half
feet from the exterior wall of the building.
      (3)   An uncovered stair and necessary landings may project a distance
not to exceed three feet; provided, such stair and landing shall not extend
above the entrance floor of the building, except for a railing not exceeding
three feet in height.
      (4)   Bay windows, balconies and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding 30 inches; provided that, such features do not occupy, in the
aggregate, more than one-third of the length of the building wall on which they
are located.
   (J)   When an existing setback is reduced because of conveyance to a
federal, state or local government for a public purpose, and the remaining
setback is at least 75% of the required minimum setback for the district in
which it is located, then that remaining setback shall be deemed to satisfy
minimum setback requirements.
   (K)   When a majority of the lots have existing principal structures on them
and the street setbacks of said principal structures are on lots within the
same block, with the same zoning classification and fronting on the same side
of the street, and are less than the required street setback, applicants shall
be allowed to use the “average” street setback on that block. In such cases,
the “average setback” shall be the mean (average) setback of all developed lots
on the same side of the street within the same block as the subject property
and with the same zoning classifications; provided that, in no case shall more
than six lots on either side of the subject property be included in the
calculation.
   (L)   Maximum height limitation is 30 feet above the highest part of the lot
(s) upon which the structure is constructed or located in all residential
zones, nor shall exceed two stories in height. Chimneys, smokestacks,
ventilators, cooling and water towers, bulkheads, grain elevators and silos,
utility and flagpoles, belfries, spires and steeples, and monuments and
ornamental towers, may be erected to any height not in conflict with other city
ordinances or federal regulations. Communication towers are exempt only to the
extent authorized through conditional use approval.
   (M)   Pursuant to A.C.A. § 14-56-204(d)(4), the city shall establish the
minimum enclosed heated square footage (having a minimum of six feet of
headroom) and the minimum area under roof, including the covered contiguous
porch/patio/garage, for all residential structures as detailed below.
   (O)   An alternative to division (D) above: single-family residential
development may optionally be constructed across one or more lot lines of
adjoining lots sharing the same street frontage with the following conditions.
      (1)   All involved lots must be zoned the same residential district.
      (2)   The owner of all involved lots must provide warranty deeds
confirming identical ownership of each lot to the Building Inspector.
      (3)   Single-family residential development shall not be constructed to
cross over any easements.
      (4)   Front, side and rear setbacks are considered as if the lots
involved are viewed as a single lot.
      (5)   All involved lots are considered developed, regardless of the
percentage used by the residential development.
      (6)   All involved lots shall be conveyed together in the future.
      (7)   A conditional use permit is not required for the primary single-
family residential development crossing the lot lines of adjoining lots along
the same street frontage.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-004, passed 3-17-2026; Ord. 2026-
006, passed 3-17- 2026; Ord. 2026-010, passed 4-21-2026; Ord. 2026-015, passed
7-21-2026)
§ 152.077 COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   Commercial districts are principally intended for the provision of services
and the conduct of business and retail and wholesale trade essential to support
residents within the city and the surrounding area. Such districts are
established herein to provide for the diversity of uses and appropriate
locations required for the range of goods and services needed in the city.
   (A)   C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District. This district is intended to be
embedded in and serve residential neighborhoods, such as home office uses,
childcare and small retail and service type businesses that will not disrupt
the normal and orderly development of the surrounding area are anticipated.
Buildings are to be of residential character regarding outward appearance.
   (B)   C-2, Limited Commercial District. This district is intended to
accommodate administrative, executive and professional offices and associated
uses, as well as limited retail trade and services designed to serve adjacent
residential neighborhoods, usually of a high or medium density character. Such
districts should generally be limited to main/primary street locations or other
carefully selected areas. Uses with drive-thru service such as restaurants,
banks and pharmacies shall be planned in a way to minimize physical and visual
impact on the pedestrian realm.
   (C)   C-3, General Commercial District. This purpose of this district is to
provide appropriate locations for commercial and retail uses that are
convenient and serve the needs of the public. This district also provides
locations for limited amounts of merchandise, equipment and material being
offered for retail sale that are more suitable for storage and display outside
the confines of an enclosed structure. Appropriate locations for this district
are generally along heavily traveled streets and highways, where convenient
access and high visibility exist. However, development of groupings of
facilities shall be encouraged in the future, as opposed to less desirable
strip commercial, such as that that exists along Highway U.S. 23.
   (D)   C-4, Commercial Trades and Services District. The purpose of this
district is to provide appropriate locations for commercial uses that do not
require high public visibility and may have a limited manufacturing or
ancillary warehouse/storage component. Some uses may have retail storefronts.
Uses such as lumber/plumbing/electrical supply, vehicle service/repair,
screened equipment yards, limited manufacturing and small warehousing spaces
are anticipated in this zone.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.078 INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   Industrial zoning districts are defined as follows.
   (A)   I-L, Light Industrial District. The Light Industrial Zoning District
is intended to provide for the development of light intensity industrial uses
and their related facilities. Certain commercial and other complementary uses
are also permitted. Appropriate standards for the district are designed to
assure compatibility with other similar uses and to minimize any conflicts with
non-industrial uses located in close proximity to industrial uses. Suitable
uses in this district include warehousing, wholesaling, packaging, storage,
storage yards, display and such limited manufacturing as does not create a
nuisance for residential and commercial neighbors. Adequate and suitable
transportation facilities are a necessity to this district. Industrial uses
must be screened from more restrictive uses.
   (B)   I-M, Medium Industrial District. The Industrial Zoning District is
intended to provide for the development of light to medium intensity industrial
uses and their related facilities. Certain commercial and other complementary
uses are also permitted. Appropriate standards for the district are designed to
ensure compatibility with other similar uses and to minimize any conflicts with
non-industrial uses located in close proximity to industrial uses. Suitable
uses in this district include freight terminals, warehousing, wholesaling,
packaging, storage, storage yards, fabrication, display and such manufacturing
as does not create a nuisance for residential and commercial neighbors.
Adequate and suitable transportation facilities are a necessity to this
district. Industrial uses must be screened from more restrictive uses.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.079 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS USES.
   Commercial and industrial district uses are defined as follows.
   (A)   Uses permitted in the foregoing districts are set forth in the
following table. Where the letter “P” appears opposite a listed use and
underneath a district, the use is permitted in that district “by right” subject
to:
      (1)   Providing off-street parking and loading facilities as required by
§
152.195 of this chapter;
      (2)   Providing landscaping and screening; and
      (3)   Conformance with special conditions applying to certain uses as set
forth in §§
152.155 through
152.166 of this chapter. Commercial uses must be screened from more restrictive
uses.
   (B)   Where the letter “C” appears instead of “P”, the use is permitted
subject to acquiring a conditional use permit as set forth in §§
152.125 through
152.128 of this chapter. Where neither “P” nor “C” appears within the table and
“NP” appears, the use is not permitted.
   (C)   When a use is proposed that is not listed in this chapter, the City
Planning and Zoning Official and/or the City Planning Commission shall
recommend the appropriate districts based on land uses that are similar in
size, bulk and traffic generation. If the applicant does not agree with this
interpretation, he or she may appeal the interpretation to the City Council.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial structures may optionally be constructed
across one or more lot lines of adjoining lots sharing the same street frontage
with the following conditions.
      (1)   All involved lots must be zoned the same commercial or industrial
district.
      (2)   The owner of all involved lots must provide warranty deeds
confirming identical ownership of each lot to the Building Inspector.
      (3)   Commercial or industrial structures shall not be constructed to
cross over any easements.
      (4)   Front, side and rear setbacks are considered as if the lots
involved are viewed as a single lot.
      (5)   All involved lots are considered developed, regardless of the
percentage used by the commercial structure.
      (6)   All involved lots shall be conveyed together in the future.
      (7)   A conditional use permit is not required for the primary commercial
or industrial structure crossing the lot lines of adjoining lots along the same
street frontage.
Zoning Districts C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 I-L I-M
Zoning Districts                                             C- C- C- C- I- I-M
                                                             1  2  3  4  L
AGRICULTURAL USES
   Agriculture, animal                                    NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Agriculture, crop                                      NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Agriculture, farmers’ market                         NP P  P  P  P  P
   Agriculture, product sales                             NP C  C  C  P  P
   Animal, farm                                           NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Chicken, hobby                                         NP NP NP NP NP NP
CIVIC AND COMMERCIAL USES
   Airport or airstrip                                    NP NP NP NP NP C
   Animal care, general                                   NP NP P  C  P  P
   Animal care, limited                                   NP P  P  P  P  P
   Auditorium or stadium                                  NP NP C  C  C  C
   Automated teller machine (ATM)                         P  P  P  P  P  P
   Bank or financial institution                          C  P  P  P  P  P
   Bars or lounges                                        NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Bed and breakfast                                      C  C  C  C  C  NP
   Car wash                                               NP C  P  P  P  P
   Cemetery                                               NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Church                                                 P  P  P  P  P  P
   College or university                                  C  C  C  C  NP NP
   Communication tower                                    NP C  C  C  C  C
   Construction sales or service                          NP NP P  P  P  P
   Container, shipping (accessory building)               NP NP P  P  P  P
   Convenience store                                      NP P  P  P  P  C
   Day care, limited (family home)                        NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Day care, general                                      C  P  P  P  C  C
   Entertainment, adult                                   NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Funeral home                                           NP C  C  C  C  C
   Golf course                                            NP P  P  P  NP NP
   Government service                                     P  P  P  P  P  P
   Hospital                                               NP C  P  P  P  NP
   Hotel or motel                                         NP NP P  P  NP NP
   Library                                                P  P  P  P  NP NP
   Liquor store                                           NP P  P  NP NP NP
   Medical service/office                                 C  P  P  P  P  P
   Museum                                                 P  P  P  P  C  C
   Nursing home                                           C  C  P  P  C  NP
   Office, limited                                        P  P  P  P  P  P
   Office, general                                        NP P  P  C  C  C
   Outdoor vendors                                        P  P  P  P  P  P
   Parking lot, commercial                                NP NP P  P  C  C
   Parks and recreation                                   P  P  P  P  P  C
   Safety services                                        P  P  P  P  P  P
   School, pre-K/elementary/ middle/high                  P  P  P  P  NP NP
   Service station                                        NP C  P  P  P  P
                                                                            NP ** The
                                                                            placements
                                                                            of all
   Short-term rentals                                     C  NP NP NP NP shall be
                                                                            in
                                                                            accordance
                                                                            with city
                                                                            code
   Storage, outdoor (yard)                                NP NP NP P  P  P
   Storage units, self                                    NP NP P  P  P  P
   Utility, major                                         NP NP C  C  C  C
   Utility, minor                                         C  P  P  P  P  P
   Vehicle and equipment sales                            NP P  P  C  P  P
   Vehicle repair, general                                NP NP P  C  P  P
   Vehicle repair, limited                                NP NP P  C  P  P
   Vocational school                                      NP C  P  P  P  P
   Warehouse, residential (mini) self-storage             NP NP P  P  P  P
INDUSTRIAL, MANUFACTURING AND EXTRACTIVE USES
   Asphalt or concrete plant                              NP NP NP NP NP C
   Auto wrecking or salvage yard                          NP NP NP NP NP c
   Basic industry                                         NP NP NP NP C  p
   Freight terminal                                       NP NP C  C  C  p
   Manufacturing, general                                 NP NP NP NP C  p
   Manufacturing, limited                                 NP NP NP P  P  p
   Mining or quarrying                                    NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Soil borrowing                                         NP NP NP NP C  C
   Research services                                      NP NP C  C  C  P
   Warehousing primary                                    NP NP NP C  P  P
   Warehousing ancillary                                  NP NP NP P  P  P
   Welding or machine shop                                NP NP NP P  P  P
RESIDENTIAL USES
   Condominiums (see lot, yard and height regulations for NP NP NP NP NP NP
requirements)
   Container Housing (container home)                     NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Duplex                                                 NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Group residential                                      C  C  C  C  NP NP
   Loft living space                                      P  P  P  P  C  C
   Modular housing                                        NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Multi-family                                           NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Single-family detached                                 NP NP NP NP NP NP
   Townhomes (see lot, yard and height regulations for    NP NP NP NP NP NP
requirements)
   Triplex and/or quadplex                                NP NP NP NP NP NP
 
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-006, passed 3-17-2026; Ord. 2026-
010, passed 4-21- 2026; Ord. 2026-015, passed 7-21-2026)
§ 152.080 SUBURBAN IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ZONING; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   H-G, HISID Green Space District. The purpose of this district is to
guide the conversion of these lands to residential use or community spaces,
such as trails or parks, when appropriate. Natural areas should be protected by
appropriate standards until they are well served by municipal facilities and
services that will permit development.
   (B)   H-C, HISID Commercial District. The purpose of this district is
principally intended for the provision of HISID amenity services and the
conduct of HISID business. This district is intended to be embedded in and
serve residential neighborhoods.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.081 SUBURBAN IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ZONING USES.
   (A)   The city recognizes that certain HISID properties, lots and parcels do
not align well with the surrounding intended zoning uses as defined in these
regulations.
   (B)   The HISID properties, lots and parcels will be permitted to continue
being used as they are upon the date of adoption of these regulations by
ordinance.
   (C)   Proposed future changes in the use of HISID properties, lots and
parcels must comply with the processes defined in §§
152.125 through
152.128 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.082 GOVERNMENT DISTRICT; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   G-C, City of Holiday Island. The purpose of this district is to
identify the lands/properties that are owned and/or controlled by the city.
   (B)   G-F, Federal or State Control. The purpose of this district is to
identify the lands/properties that are owned and/or controlled by a federal or
state government agency or department.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.083 GOVERNMENT DISTRICT USES.
   Uses of this district are determined by the respective federal government
agency or department.
Zoning District G-C G-F
Zoning District          G-C G-F
CIVIC USES
   Airport or airstripP   NP
   Auditorium or stadiPm  NP
   Cemetery           P   NP
   Government service NP  P
   Library            P   NP
   Post office        NP  P
   Signs              **  **
Notes to Table:
** The placements of all shall be in accordance with city code
 
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.084 RURAL WOODED DISTRICT ZONING; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   RW, Rural Wooded parcels with a minimum acreage of ten acres that are
primarily undeveloped woodlands.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.085 RURAL WOODED DISTRICT USES.
   Permitted timber, hunting, single-family residence, hobby farming. Well and
septic are allowed. No commercial uses are allowed. Multiple housing units per
parcel are prohibited.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.086 DEFICIENT PROPERTY DISTRICT; GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   DP, Deficient Property, has characteristics that do not permit another
zoning classification; including, but not limited to, any of the following
conditions: insufficient size, unusual configuration, lack of both water and
sewer service availability or extreme topography:
   (A)   Insufficient size as determined by §§
152.075,
152.076 and
152.088 of this chapter;
   (B)   Unusual configuration that limits construction of residential,
commercial or incidental use structure due to zoning district setbacks and
minimums;
   (C)   Lack of water and sewer lines along the property lines or opposite
side of an adjoining roadway; and
   (D)   Extreme topography as determined by grades exceeding 30% on up-lots or
exceeding 40% on down-lots as measured at 30 feet from frontage property line.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.087 DEFICIENT PROPERTY DISTRICT USES.
   (A)   No commercial uses are allowed. No residential uses are allowed. No
structures of any kind are allowed. No storage of materials, boats, trailers,
equipment or vehicles is allowed.
   (B)   Development of the lot is limited to an entrance to the lot over an
approved culvert, if deemed necessary by HISID, and a maintained vehicle
pathway through the lot with optional fencing, as permitted in §
152.199 of this chapter, that may be constructed only along a 25-foot setback
from the back property line. Development described in this section requires a
building permit, at zero cost, that may be approved by the city’s Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.088 NON-RESIDENTIAL LOT, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. No lot or yard shall be established or reduced in dimension
or area in any non- residential district that does not meet the minimum
requirements in the table that follows; nor shall any building or structure be
erected or enlarged that will cause the maximum lot coverage or maximum height
regulations to be exceeded for such district as set forth in said table. A
listing of supplements and exceptions to these regulations follows the table.
   (B)   Minimum dimension requirements; non-residential districts.
Non-Residential Lot, Yard and Height Regulations
     Minimum Dimensions Are in Feet
                             Corner          Minimum
Unit Front   Total   Minimum Lot     Rear    Street   Maximum Maximum Side     Rear
     Setback Side    Side    Side    Setback Frontage Height  Lot %   Easement Easement
             Setback Setback Street          (Feet)           Covered
                             Setback         [*2]
Non-Residential Lot, Yard and Height Regulations
     Minimum Dimensions Are in Feet
                             Corner          Minimum
Unit Front   Total   Minimum Lot     Rear    Street   Maximum Maximum Side     Rear
     Setback Side    Side    Side    Setback Frontage Height  Lot %   Easement Easement
             Setback Setback Street          (Feet)           Covered
                             Setback         [*2]
C-l  10      15      5       10      25      75       30      50      5        7.5
C-2  10      10      5       10      25      50       30      75      5        7.5
C-3  25      50      20      20      25      100      30      50      5        7.5
C-4  50      100     20      50      25      250      30      75      5        7.5
l-L  25      50      20      25      25      100      30      75      5        7.5
l-M  50      100     20      50      50      100      30      75      5        7.5
Notes to Table:
[*2] Setbacks for development in R-3 may vary when adjacent to “triggering property”
based on §
152.198.
“Triggering properties” include: properties zoned R-1, R-1M and R-2, as well as
property occupied by a single-family dwelling unit.
 
   (C)   Size reduced for public purpose. When an existing lot is reduced
because of conveyance to a federal, state or local government for a public
purpose, and the remaining area is at least 75% of the required minimum lot
size for the district in which it is located, then that remaining lot shall be
deemed to comply with minimum lot size requirements.
   (D)   Utility exemption. Utility facilities, using land or an unoccupied
building requiring less than 1,000 square feet of site area, are exempt from
minimum lot size requirements.
   (E)   Setback reduced for public purpose. When an existing setback is
reduced because of conveyance to a federal, state or local government for a
public purpose, and the remaining setback is at least 75% of the required
minimum setback for the district in which it is located, then that remaining
setback shall be deemed to satisfy minimum setback requirements.
   (F)   Maximum height exclusions.
      (1)   Chimneys, smokestacks, flares, ventilators, engine exhaust towers,
cooling and water towers, bulkheads, grain elevators and silos, utility and
flag poles, belfries, spires and steeples and monuments and ornamental towers
may be erected to any height not in conflict with the other city ordinances or
federal regulations.
      (2)   Communication towers are exempt only to the extent authorized
through conditional use approval, if such use is not a use permitted by right.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.089 OVERLAY AND SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The purpose of overlay and special purpose districts is to provide for
enhanced standards to protect and enhance the unique characteristics of
specific areas and/or corridors, such as natural scenic beauty or human-made
features, while providing for development opportunities. Examples of such
purposes include: promoting the safe and efficient use of specific roadways by
controlling access and other traffic measures; encouraging the redevelopment of
an area consistent with a particular design theme; giving special attention to
landscaping, buffering, signage, lighting and building setbacks in those
districts identified as needing special attention; and giving special attention
to the existing architectural style or to the style which is planned, so as to
create an easily identifiable area in those areas identified as architecturally
or historically significant.
   (B)   The City Council, upon recommendation from the city’s Planning
Commission, may adopt overlay and special purpose districts as the needs are
identified in order to implement specific purposes, intents and design
standards generally consistent with the city’s Land Use Plan provisions for the
area being regulated, which shall be applied as additional standards to other
city regulations. The development criteria for each district shall be those
standards as set out in each respective district that is adopted. Such
districts shall be made a part of the zoning regulations through the standard
amendment procedures; and upon adoption, the boundaries of such districts,
shall be delineated on the official zoning map and the official zoning map
table.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.090 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to encourage development with
superior living environments brought about through unified development, and to
provide for the application of design ingenuity in such developments, while
protecting existing and future surrounding areas in achieving the goals of the
Comprehensive Development Plan, to the extent they exist, for the city. The
planned unit development (PUD) provisions herein established are intended to
provide for greater flexibility in the design of buildings, yards, courts,
circulation and open space than would otherwise be possible through the strict
application of other district regulations and to produce:
      (1)   A maximum choice in the type of environment and living units
available to the public;
      (2)   Open space and recreation areas;
      (3)   A pattern of development which preserves natural features, prevents
soil erosion and protects water quality;
      (4)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
development;
      (5)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets and thereby lowering costs; and
      (6)   An environment of stable character in harmony with surrounding
development.
   (B)   The PUD regulations are designed to provide for small- and large-scale
developments incorporating a single type or a variety of residential,
commercial and related uses that are planned and developed as a unit. Such
development may consist of individual lots or it may have common building
sites. Private or public common land and open space should be an essential and
major element of the plan that is related to and affects the long-term value of
the homes and other development. A planned unit shall be a separate entity with
a distinct character and be in harmony with surrounding development.
   (C)   (1)   Ownership control. The land in a PUD District shall be owned,
leased or otherwise controlled by a person, firm, group of individuals,
partnership, corporation or trust; provided, assurances are given through the
procedures contained herein that the project can be successfully completed.
      (2)   Minimum district area. The minimum area for a PUD District shall be
two acres. In calculating the minimum area for a PUD District, the measurements
shall include the area of all dedicated streets entirely within the boundary of
the proposed PUD, and one-half of the area of all boundary or perimeter
streets.
      (3)   Uses permitted. In order to increase creativity and flexibility in
the development of areas suitable for a PUD, there are no specifically
prescribed uses that are permitted within the boundaries of a PUD. The
developer shall be responsible for preparation of a list of permitted uses
within the specific PUD requested. The development list shall take into account
the nature and purpose of the PUD area, and such uses and locations shall be
appropriate in order to protect and be in harmony with surrounding development.
      (4)   Description; list of uses. At the time of the pre-application plan
and conference, the applicant shall generally describe the nature and types of
land uses to be located within the boundaries of the PUD District. At the time
of zoning application and consideration of the preliminary plat, a specific
written list of uses to be “permitted by right” shall be submitted for review
by the Planning Commission. If approved by the Planning Commission and City
Council, the list of specific uses permitted by right shall serve as the
control list in issuance of building permits and certificates of occupancy.
      (5)   Conditional uses. In addition to the above permitted uses that are
established by right, certain other uses may be prescribed by the developer in
accordance with the restrictions included herein and said uses are designated
as conditional uses. These uses more intensely dominate the area in which they
are located than do other uses which might be permitted in the PUD District
and, as such, they require special considerations and restrictions. If the
developer and/or Planning Commission agree that certain conditional uses should
be included within the PUD District, the applicant shall precisely indicate the
specific use, its location, area to be included, maximum building square
footage, and such other information as required by the Planning Commission to
properly and comprehensively evaluate the nature and impact of such conditional
uses. When such conditional uses are approved at the time of rezoning, they
shall not be subsequently changed to any other use until and unless they are
changed to another use that is permitted by right, or the new proposed use if
not permitted by right in a PUD District, is resubmitted for rezoning approval.
      (6)   Parking and off-street loading. All uses established within a PUD
District shall comply with the off-street parking and loading requirements as
established in the city’s planning and zoning regulations and street section
requirements within the city’s adopted Future Land Use Plan and Master Street
Plan. However, the requirements for individual structures or lots may be met
through either provision of adequate parking on the lot on which such structure
is so located, or upon adjacent property which is under the control of a
property owners’ association, to which said lot is an automatic participant. In
no case, however, shall the cumulative requirements of all parking and off-
street loading requirements be less than if said uses were individually
established and located in any other zoning district within the city.
      (7)   Perimeter requirements. In order to assure compatibility with
surrounding development, the developer shall submit specific information as to
the setbacks, building height, coverage factors and other elements necessary
for all perimeter lots that are adjacent to the boundary of the PUD District or
adjacent to any boundary or perimeter street right-of-way. While no specific
setback requirements are herein established, the Planning Commission shall
consider the nature, extent and character of the adjacent development and shall
take into consideration the types of area regulations applicable to adjacent
properties.
      (8)   Residential density standards. The maximum number of dwelling units
permitted within a PUD District is dependent upon both the type and number of
each type of residential units intended to be included in the PUD District.
Densities within certain areas of the PUD may be beyond the overall limits
through a transfer of density. However, overall project densities shall not be
exceeded in accordance with the following schedule:
         (a)   Eight dwelling units per net residential acre for single-family
attached and detached houses and duplexes;
         (b)   Fifteen dwelling units per net residential acre for triplexes,
fourplexes and row or terrace housing;
         (c)   Eighteen dwelling units per net residential acre for two story;
         (d)   For purposes of calculating densities, net residential acres are
defined as gross acres of the PUD site minus all public rights-of-way, and less
the area of all parcels or lots devoted to commercial, industrial or
institutional uses not of a residential nature; and
         (e)   Common open space that is owned and maintained by a property
owners association shall be included in calculating the residential acres
available for all dwelling units that automatically belong to such an
association. Where more than one property owners’ association is to be created,
then each common open space can only be attributed to the lot or dwellings
which have automatic membership for that specific common open area.
      (9)   Green space and lawn space.
         (a)   Green space and lawn space constitutes an essential ingredient
in a PUD and is one of the most basic and important design elements. Green
space and lawn space should be distributed more or less equitably throughout
the PUD District in relationship to the dwelling units and other use areas that
are intended to be served by the green space and lawn space. Adequate
guarantees must be provided that the green space and lawn space areas as
contained in the plan for the PUD District are preserved and maintained for
those purposes only. A minimum of 20% of the total project area shall be
devoted to green space and lawn space. The percentage of the required green
space and lawn space shall be calculated from the total acreage of the
development.
         (b)   At least 3% of the project total shall be designated common
space. Common space may be included as part of the 20% required green space and
lawn space. Example: 80-acre raw tract of land, 20% green space and lawn space
= 16 acres green space and lawn space, at least 2.4 acres must be common space.
Common space may include the following:
            1.   Public plazas and hard surfaced recreation areas including,
but not limited to, pools, basketball courts, tennis courts, boccie courts,
pickle ball courts, soccer fields, weight rooms, clubhouses, picnic shelters,
playground equipment, baseball fields or similar outdoor recreation facilities,
and associated parking, that are open to the residents and users of the PUD;
            2.   Pedestrian paths, trails, and covered walkways, excluding
those required in rights-of-way and along private drives;
            3.   Wetlands and water bodies, including the normal water surface
area of retention ponds that hold water, if accessible by property owners
within the PUD. Dry detention ponds shall not be included; and
            4.   Vegetated/landscaped areas. If arrangements satisfactory to
the Planning Commission have not been made, for improving, operating and
maintaining all such common open space areas, a property owners association
shall be required for the PUD. At the time the plan and plat are submitted, the
articles of incorporation and bylaws of the property owners association shall
be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission. Additionally, the
restrictive covenants which run with the land must be submitted and include
similar provisions to preserve all green space and lawn space areas within the
PUD.
   (D)   Procedures for obtaining PUD zoning. A three-step review procedure is
required for obtaining PUD zoning and final approval of the final plan and
plat. The first step involves a pre-application plan and conference which is
designed to provide information to the city of the developer’s intention with
respect to the nature and scope of the proposed PUD District, and to allow the
developer to be informed of the city’s regulations and policies concerning
development alternatives for the area. The second step involves submission of a
formal application for rezoning of the area to a PUD District and simultaneous
submission of a preliminary plat in accordance with
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances. The last step involves submission of
the final development plan and plat for approval and recording prior to
commencing building construction. These steps are outlined as follows with
respect to the procedure followed and submission requirements at each step.
      (1)   First step: pre-application plan and conference.
         (a)   Procedure.
            1.   A pre-application plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for review of the area and proposed uses relative to the
compatibility of a PUD project with existing development in the surrounding
area and the Comprehensive Development Plan of the city. If determined by the
Planning Commission that the proposed PUD project is compatible, then the
process should continue.
            2.   Each applicant shall confer with the Planning Commission
Chairperson and the Planning Commission Secretary in connection with the
preparation of the PUD application. It shall be the responsibility of the
Planning Commission Chairperson to contact and invite interested department
heads and other parties to a joint meeting. The general outlines of the
proposal, evidenced schematically by the pre-application plan and such other
information as may be desired, are to be considered before submission of the
PUD application.
            3.   Upon review of the site plan and general area, and following
completion of the pre-application conference, the Zoning Official shall furnish
the applicant with written comments regarding the conference, including
appropriate recommendations to inform and assist the applicant prior to
preparing the components of the PUD application.
         (b)   Submission requirements. At the time of requesting a pre-
application conference, the applicant shall submit a scaled site plan and such
other narrative or graphic information the applicant deems pertinent to the
city’s initial review and evaluation of the potential of the PUD District
proposed. The pre-application plan shall include the following:
            1.   Boundaries of the property involved;
            2.   Existing zoning of the area and zoning of adjoining
properties;
            3.   Existing roadways, easements and waterways;
            4.   Indication of availability of all utilities; and
            5.   General plan of development at a level of detail sufficient to
indicate to the city the nature and scope of the project as to its magnitude in
terms of approximate number and types of dwelling units; location and extent of
non-residential elements; proposed locations of major open space areas; and
circulation and access.
      (2)   Second step: zoning application and preliminary plat. After
receiving written comments following the pre-application conference, the
applicant may proceed in preparing a formal application for a PUD to the
Planning Commission. The application shall consist of a simultaneous submission
of a preliminary plat and a rezoning application. The preliminary plat shall
conform to all requirements contained in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances, with the exception of certain design
requirements regarding lots, setbacks and the like that are specifically
exempted or modified by provisions of this section. The rezoning application
shall be processed following the procedure for map amendments in §
152.023 of this chapter.
         (a)   Submission requirements. The applicant shall simultaneously
submit both a preliminary plat and a rezoning application. To form the basis
for the rezoning application, a preliminary plat shall be submitted and it
shall include all requirements for the preliminary plat and include the
following information:
            1.   Proposed title of the project and name of every engineer,
architect, land planner, land surveyor, landscape architect or company
responsible for various elements of the plan;
            2.   North point, graphic scale and date;
            3.   Boundaries of the properties involved, all existing easements,
section lines and property lines, existing streets, existing buildings,
watercourses, waterways or lakes and other existing physical features in and
adjoining the property;
            4.   Location and sizes of sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts and other underground structures in and adjacent to the project;
            5.   Topography of the project area with appropriate contour
intervals;
            6.   General land use development plan of the area, indicating:
               a.   The location of different land uses;
               b.   Dwellings by types and numbers;
               c.   Areas designated for commercial uses and other non-
residential uses;
               d.   Areas proposed for open space and recreational use;
               e.   For all residential areas, the site plan shall clearly
indicate the type and number of dwellings to be located per parcel, lot or
block in accordance with the preliminary plat;
               f.   For all commercial or other non-residential uses, the areas
shall clearly be indicated in accordance with lots, parcels or blocks and each
such parcel shall indicate the type of building proposed, number of stores and
gross square footage to be included on each parcel;
               g.   The boundaries of all open space areas shall be clearly
indicated along with the form of proposed ownership, that is by property
owners’ association or public park or other legal entity, and in such case
where more than one property owners’ association is being created,
documentation shall be clearly submitted as to which areas will have automatic
membership into said associations;
               h.   This requirement, however, shall not be interpreted as
requiring a detailed site development plan that includes the exact boundaries
and locations of all structures proposed for construction; and
               i.   The location of different land uses, dwellings by types and
numbers, areas designated for commercial uses and other non-residential uses,
and areas proposed for open space and recreational use. For all residential
areas, the site plan shall clearly indicate the type and number of dwellings to
be located per parcel, lot or block in accordance with the preliminary plat.
For all commercial or other non-residential uses, the areas shall clearly be
indicated in accordance with lots, parcels, or blocks and each such parcel
shall indicate the type of building proposed, number of stories, and gross
square footage to be included on each parcel. The boundaries of all open space
areas shall be clearly indicated along with the form of proposed ownership,
that is, by property owners association or public park or other legal entity,
and in such case where more than one property owners association is being
created, documentation shall be clearly submitted as to which areas will have
automatic membership into said associations. This requirement, however, shall
not be interpreted as requiring a detailed site development plan that includes
the exact boundaries and locations of all structures proposed for construction.
            7.   All setback lines for all properties shall be shown;
            8.   If the project is to be developed in more than one phase, the
boundaries of each proposed phase shall be clearly indicated on the site plan
map;
            9.   Calculations shall be submitted of the total number of gross
acres in the project, and the acres and percentage thereof, proposed to be
devoted to the several dwelling types, commercial uses, other non-residential
uses, streets, parks, schools and other reservations; and
            10.   Tabulation of the total number of dwelling units by various
types in the project and the total number of net residential acres within the
project.
         (b)   Conformance. The tabulations shall so indicate conformance of
the proposed project, or each phase within the project, to the residential
density standards for the PUD District.
      (3)   Third step: final plan and plat. Upon approval of the rezoning
request by the City Council, the applicant may proceed with the preparation of
the final plan and plat. The final plat shall meet all applicable requirements
of
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances and shall be processed in accordance
with those regulations. The applicant shall submit a written and graphic
description of any modifications made to the final plan from the approved
preliminary plan. If it is determined that no changes have been made from the
preliminary plan, or if only minor plan changes have been made in accordance
with the definition provided herein below, then the review by the Planning
Commission may proceed and the plat may be submitted to the Planning Commission
for approval. If approved, the plat shall be filed in the office of the County
Circuit Clerk.
   (E)   Amendments. Amendments may be required either to the preliminary site
plan or the final development plan. The procedure governing the disposition of
amendments shall be as follows.
      (1)   Amendments to preliminary plan. At the time a final plan is
submitted for review, it shall be determined whether or not any amendments have
been made to the approved preliminary plan. If amendments have been made, then
a determination shall be required as to whether or not said amendments
constitute a major or minor plan change. Modifications from the previously
approved preliminary plan shall be deemed to be minor plan changes if any and
all modifications by the applicant of the plan do not:
         (a)   Vary the total number of dwelling units by more than 5%;
         (b)   Involve a reduction of the area set aside for common open space
or the substantial relocation of such area or areas;
         (c)   Increase by more than 5% the total floor area proposed for any
non-residential use; and
         (d)   Does not substantially change the location of any non-
residential areas as shown on the preliminary plan.
      (2)   Modifications. Additionally, modifications in the location or
design of minor streets, cul-de- sacs, alleys or facilities for water and for
disposal of storm water and sanitary sewage shall not be considered as major
modifications. All other changes in the PUD, including changes in the site plan
and development schedule, must be made under the procedures that are applicable
to the initial approval of a PUD.
      (3)   Amendments to final development plan. The final development plan as
submitted and approved may be amended in accordance with the following
procedure. Minor changes may be authorized by the Zoning Official, in such
cases where changes are required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the final development plan was approved. No change
authorized by the Zoning Official under this section, however, may either
increase the total area devoted to any and all non-residential uses, or
decrease the amount of area devoted to common open space, or increase the total
number of dwelling units located on any lot, block or parcel as approved in the
final development plan. Notwithstanding any of these conditions, the Zoning
Official may not permit changes beyond the minimum or maximum requirements set
forth in these regulations. All other changes in the PUD, including changes in
the site plan or the development schedule, must be made under the procedures
that are applicable to the initial approval of a PUD.
      (4)   Administration and enforcement.
         (a)   Review standards. The Planning Commission shall investigate and
ascertain that the plans for a PUD meet the following conditions:
            1.   The tract of land for the entire project comprises not less
than two acres;
            2.   The project is in conformity with the requirements and
standards of development of the PUD District and is consistent with the intent
and purpose of this section;
            3.   The proposed project constitutes an environment of sustained
desirability and stability, and that it is in harmony with the character of the
surrounding neighborhood, and is not inconsistent with the city’s Comprehensive
Development Plan; and
            4.   The property adjacent to the proposed development will not be
adversely affected.
         (b)   Recorded plat and plot plan required. The proposed development
shall follow all applicable procedures, standards, regulations and laws
governing the subdivision of land. No building permit for any structure shall
be issued until a final plat of the proposed development, or part thereof, is
approved and recorded and an approved plot plan is submitted in accordance with
these regulations.
         (c)   Submissions.
            1.   Phasing and development schedule. The applicant shall clearly
indicate on the site plan map, the boundaries of each proposed phase. If the
sequence of construction of various portions of the development is to occur in
phases or stages, then the open space and/or recreational facilities should be
developed or committed thereto in proportion to the number of dwelling units
intended to be developed during any given stage of construction.
            2.   Sequence of development. Additionally, the applicant shall
submit a schedule of construction for the project, or for each phase within the
project, indicating the sequence of development according to residential type
and other non-residential construction within the project. Upon adoption of the
schedule of construction, the Building Inspector shall be responsible for
enforcing this schedule. If the Building Inspector determines that the rate of
construction of residential units or non-residential structures differs from
the construction schedule, he or she shall so notify the developer in writing.
Thereafter, the Building Inspector may issue such orders to a developer as
necessary to correct said schedule and, upon continued violation of this
section, may suspend the developer from further construction of dwelling units
or non-residential structures until compliance is achieved.
         (d)   Guarantee of completion. Before approval of the final
development plan, the Planning Commission shall require a contract with
safeguards satisfactory to the Planning Commission guaranteeing completion of
the development plan for any single phase in a period to be specified by the
Planning Commission, but which period shall not exceed five years unless
extended by the Planning Commission.
         (e)   Causes for revocation. The Planning Commission may recommend to
the City Council that any previous PUD approval be revoked, and all building
permits be voided under the following circumstances:
            1.   If the applicant has not submitted a final development plan to
the city within one year of preliminary plat approval. Where an optional staged
development plan is utilized, the affected portion of the approved preliminary
plan may be revoked in its entirety or to the extent of that portion on which a
final development plat has not been submitted and approved;
            2.   If no building permit has been issued within one year from the
recording date of the final development plan map, or initial plan of a staged,
final development plan and the applicant has not been granted an extension; and
            3.   If the applicant does not adhere to the phased development
schedule as stated in the approved preliminary development plan. If the
construction and provision of all common open spaces and public and
recreational facilities which are shown on the final development plan map are
proceeding at a substantially slower rate than other project components. From
time to time, the Planning Commission shall compare the actual development
accomplished with the approved development schedule. If the Planning Commission
finds that the rate of construction of dwelling units or other structures is
substantially greater than the rate at which common open spaces and public
recreational facilities have been constructed and provided, then the Planning
Commission may initiate revocation action or cease to approve any additional
final development plans/plats if preceding phases have not been finalized. The
city may also issue a stop work order or discontinue issuance of building
permits, or revoke those previously issued.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 152.105 CONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Any lawfully established use of a structure or land, on the effective
date of these regulations or of amendments hereto, that does not conform to the
use regulations for the district in which it is located, shall be deemed to be
a legal non-conforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   (B)   Any legal non-conforming structure may be continued in use provided
there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and repair, except
as otherwise permitted herein.
   (C)   Any structure for which a building permit has been lawfully granted
prior to the effective date of these regulations, or of amendments hereto, may
be completed in accordance with the approved plans. Such building shall
thereafter be deemed a lawfully established building.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.106 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Whenever any part of a structure or land occupied by a non-conforming
use is changed to, or replaced by, a use conforming to the provisions of these
regulations, such premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a non-
conforming use, even though the structure may have been originally designed and
constructed for the prior non-conforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a non-conforming use of a structure or part thereof, has been
discontinued or abandoned for a period of six months or more such use shall not
be re-established, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district.
   (C)   Where no enclosed structure is involved, discontinuance of a non-
conforming use for a period of six months or more shall constitute abandonment,
and shall not thereafter be used in a non-conforming manner.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.107 CHANGE OF USE.
   (A)   The non-conforming use of any structure or portion thereof, may be
occupied by a similar or less intense non-conforming use as may be determined
by the Planning and Zoning Official, subject to appeal to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment. No building in which a non-conforming use has been changed to a
more restricted use shall again be devoted to a less restricted use. All
changes of use and or occupancy must comply with all applicable provisions of
the Building Code.
   (B)   A non-conforming use of land without substantial buildings or
structures may not be extended or expanded, nor shall it occupy more area than
was in use on the effective date of these regulations. If such non-conforming
use or portion thereof is discontinued for a period of six months, or changed,
any future use of such land or change of use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of the district in which such land is located.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.108 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a non-conforming structure or of a conforming
structure containing a non-conforming use is permitted.
   (B)   Alterations may be made when required by law, or when such alterations
will actually result in eliminating the non-conformity.
   (C)   No structure partially occupied by a non-conforming use shall be
altered in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space
occupied by such non-conforming use.
   (D)   A structure that is non-conforming with respect to yards, height or
any other element of bulk regulated by these regulations, shall not be altered
or expanded in any manner that would increase the degree or extent of its non-
conformity with respect to the bulk regulations for the district in which it is
located.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.109 ACCESSORIES TO PRIMARY NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Addition of, or enlargement, alteration or relocation of, accessories
which are incidental to and accommodate the primary non-conforming use may be
permitted if, after notices and public hearing and recommendation by the city’s
Planning Commission, the City Council finds that the accessory promotes the
public health, safety and welfare and does not expand or enlarge the primary
non-conforming use.
   (B)   The procedures for application and review shall be the same as those
for a conditional use, with the exception that all notifications must make
reference to a request for “alteration, enlargement or relocation of non-
conforming use” instead of a request for a conditional use.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to restrict, prohibit or otherwise
regulate the use of an accessory dwelling unit.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.110 DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
   If a non-conforming structure or a structure containing a non-conforming use
is damaged or destroyed by natural disaster, fire or other casualty, the
structure may be repaired or reconstructed and used for the same purpose as it
was before the occurrence; provided, such repair or reconstruction is commenced
within six months and completed within one year of the date of such damage or
destruction. Failure to exercise this option within the time specified shall be
considered a voluntary abandonment and the structure may be rebuilt and used
thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance with provisions of the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.111 DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a zoning district are changed, so as to transfer
an area from one district to another, the foregoing provisions shall also apply
to any newly created non-conforming uses therein.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 152.125 NATURE AND DESCRIPTION.
   Certain uses may or may not be appropriately located within various
districts due to their unusual or unique characteristics of operation and
external effects. Given their unusual character, analysis and judgment of the
consequences of each development and use must be given so as to provide for
such reasonable conditions and protective restrictions as are deemed necessary
to protect the character and integrity of the area in which uses are proposed
to be located. Such uses are listed under the various districts herein as
“conditional uses”, and may be located in the district or districts so
designated only in accordance with the procedure described herein.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.126 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REVIEW GUIDELINES.
   (A)   All development shall be designed in such a way as to minimize any
potential negative impact on the surrounding area. Special attention shall be
given to buffering commercial developments from adjacent single-family areas.
Design of the internal traffic circulation system, ingress and egress, off-
street parking, loading and pedestrian ways shall be sensitive to such
conditions as safety, convenience, separation of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, general attractiveness and the proper relationship of different land
uses. Landscaped areas shall be provided to protect water quality, and reduce
erosion, heat and glare. Such areas shall be maintained in an attractive
condition. Existing trees on a development site shall be retained where
possible. Screening, open space or other buffer may be required to give
adequate separation between uses which are marginally compatible, and shall
also be provided for the beautification and enhancement of the property.
   (B)   In carrying out the purpose of this section, the following development
standards and design specifics shall be subject to review and approval. The
appropriateness of these standards shall be determined for each specific
conditional use location:
      (1)   The proposed use is within the provision of “conditional uses”, as
set out in these regulations;
      (2)   The proposed use conforms to all applicable provisions herein set
out for the district in which it is to be located;
      (3)   The proposed use is so designated, located and proposed to be
operated that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      (4)   The proposed land use is compatible with and will not adversely
affect other property in the area where it is proposed to be located;
      (5)   The size and shape of the site, including the size, shape and
arrangement of proposed structures, as well as signage related thereto, is in
keeping with the intent of these regulations;
      (6)   The proposed ingress and egress, internal circulation system,
location and amount of off-street parking, loading and pedestrian ways are
sufficiently adequate and not inconsistent with requirements of these
regulations;
      (7)   The proposed landscaping and screening of the proposed use are in
accordance with provisions of these regulations; and
      (8)   Safeguards proposed to limit noxious or offensive emissions,
including lighting, noise, glare, dust and odor are addressed.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.127 PROCEDURE FOR AUTHORIZING.
   The following procedure is established to properly integrate a conditional
use with other land uses located in the district. These uses shall be reviewed
and authorized or rejected under the following procedure.
   (A)   Application. An application shall be made by the property owner and
filed with the city’s Planning Commission Secretary, upon forms prescribed for
that purpose, together with the non-refundable application fee established by
the City Council set forth in §
152.024 of this chapter to defray processing costs, remitted to the City
Recorder-Treasurer. The application shall be accompanied by a graphic
representation showing the location and proposed use of the site, along with
such other descriptive material necessary for decision-making. Such may
include, but is not limited to: proof of ownership; preliminary site plans
showing proposed uses and structures; proposed ingress and egress to the site,
including adjacent streets; new streets named; proposed off-street parking and
landscaping; lighting and signage; a preliminary plan for provision of
sanitation and drainage facilities; proximity of adjacent uses and buildings;
and appropriate dimensioning.
      (1)   Each application shall be verified by at least one of the owners of
the property proposed to be changed, attesting to the truth and correctness of
all facts and information presented with the application by notarized
signature.
      (2)   The filing deadline for inclusion on the city’s Planning Commission
agenda shall be the second Tuesday of the month prior to the city’s Planning
Commission regular meeting on the approved planning calendar. The regular
meeting is subject to being moved or canceled by the City Planning Commission
Chairperson for various reasons.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   Upon determining that an application is proper and complete, the
Planning and Zoning Official and/or City Planning Commission Secretary shall
insure that the matter is set for public hearing before the city’s Planning
Commission. The city’s Planning Commission Secretary shall schedule a public
hearing meeting in keeping with the adopted planning calendar for the city and
give meeting notice of the time and place thereof. Meeting notice shall be
published at least one time, 15 days preceding the date of such meeting, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. The meeting notice shall give the
particular location of the property on which the application is requested, as
well as a brief explanation of the variance request. Additionally, the city’s
Planning Commission Secretary shall provide notice by first class mail to the
boards of directors of the school districts affected by this matter.
      (2)   The applicant shall: post notice on weatherproof signs provided by
the city; place the signs on the property that is the subject of the
application at least 15 days before the public hearing; and ensure that the
signs remain continuously posted until a final decision is made by the city’s
Planning Commission or made by the City Council if the decision is appealed.
One sign shall be posted by the applicant at each of the subject properties
corner(s) abutting a public street. Instances when a subject property does not
abut a public street, one sign shall be placed at each of the subject
properties corner(s) abutting an access easement and shall also post one sign
at the intersection of said access easement and the public street. Required
public notice signage shall not exceed four signs. Signs shall be placed in a
conspicuous manner that makes them clearly visible to neighboring residents and
passers-by.
   (C)   City Planning Commission review and action.
      (1)   The city’s Planning Commission shall review conditional use permit
applications at a regularly scheduled meeting in keeping with the adopted
planning calendar for the city, at which time interested persons may appear at
the required public hearing and offer information in support of or against the
proposed conditional use. Following the public hearing and after deliberation,
the city’s Planning Commission may approve the application as presented,
approve the application with conditions, table the application with cause for
not to exceed one month, or deny the application. An approval or approval with
conditions shall require an affirmative vote of a majority of the authorized
membership of the city’s Planning Commission.
      (2)   In approving such conditional uses, the city’s Planning Commission
may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the premises as it deems
necessary to reduce or minimize the adverse effects of the use. Compatibility
with surrounding property shall be insured to the maximum extent practicable.
If the city’s Planning Commission denies a conditional use application, the
reasons for such action shall be given in a written response by certified mail
to the applicant within 15 days from the date of the decision. If the
conditional use application is denied by the city’s Planning Commission, no
application for such use or similar use shall be permitted involving part of
the same property for a period of six months.
   (D)   Effective.
      (1)   No decision of the city’s Planning Commission granting a
conditional use permit under this section shall become effective until after an
elapsed period of 15 days from the date of the city’s Planning Commission
mailing the written response required in division (C)(2) above following the
hearing during which the request was heard. During this 15-day period, an
appeal of the decision, whether to grant or to deny the permit, may be taken to
the City Council by filing a letter of appeal with the city’s Recorder-
Treasurer together with such non-refundable appeal processing fee according to
the adopted fee schedule in §
152.024 of this chapter. The letter shall state the nature of, and reasons for,
the appeal. The following persons or entities may appeal: the applicant, a
property owner or leaseholder who owns or leases property within 200 feet of
the property to which the conditional use applies. The City Council shall hear
such appeal and consider all relevant evidence prior to rendering a final
decision. The City Council may vote to grant or deny the conditional use
permit.
      (2)   If the City Council denies a conditional use permit, the reasons
for such action shall be given in a written response to the applicant within 15
days from the date of the decision. If the conditional use permit is denied by
the City Council, no application for such use or similar use shall be permitted
involving part of the same property for a period of six months.
   (E)   No reduction. In no case, shall the City Planning Commission or City
Council authorize reduction from minimum requirements of these regulations
relating to height, area, setbacks, parking or landscaping. In addition, no
conditional use authorized by the city’s Planning Commission or City Council
shall be subsequently considered in connection with a variance request to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.128 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure not
in conformance with the site plan and all other conditions imposed in granting
a conditional use permit in §
152.127 of this chapter. The construction, location, use or operation of all
land and structures within the site shall be in accordance with all conditions
and limitations set forth in the approval. No structure, use or other element
of any approved site plan shall be eliminated, significantly altered or
provided in another manner unless an amendment to the conditional use is
approved. The procedure for amending a conditional use permit shall be the same
as required for the original approval.
   (B)   (1)   Substantial work or construction under a conditional use permit
must be commenced within one year or the permit shall terminate.
      (2)   Conditional use permits shall be valid for an unlimited period
unless a lesser period shall be provided in a particular permit.
      (3)   Upon the expiration of the time limit specified in the particular
permit, the property owner may request that the permit be reviewed by the
city’s Planning Commission, which may extend it for an unlimited period or for
an additional period of years.
   (C)   (1)   Once any portion of the conditional use permit authorization is
utilized, all such conditions pertaining to such authorization shall become
immediately operative. All conditions relating to or limiting the use, status
or operation of the development, after issuance of an occupancy permit, shall
be complied with by the applicant or his successors or assigns.
      (2)   Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of these regulations
and cause for revocation of the conditional use authorization.
   (D)   Provided sufficient site information is submitted with the approved
development plan, the city’s Planning Commission may waive otherwise mandated
site plan review requirements.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
ACCESSORY USES
§ 152.140 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   An accessory building is a subordinate building or a portion of the
principal building, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the
dominant use of the principal building or land. An accessory use is one that is
customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of
land and buildings, and located upon the same lot therewith. As prescribed in §
152.075(A) of this chapter, residential accessory buildings may be detached and
located on an adjoining lot to the principle building. Subject to limitations
herein, accessory buildings and uses are permitted in all zones.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.141 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   An accessory building shall not be located within a required street
(front or street side) setback; shall be subject to all setback standards of
the underlying zoning district; shall not be located within any public easement
or over any known utilities or septic system lines. Accessory buildings, in all
zones, shall not exceed the gross floor area of the principal use or as noted
below, as long as the zoning district listed meets minimum lot size. Unless
otherwise provided herein, and provided site line visibility is not obstructed,
signs, fences and walls shall be allowed within setbacks.
 
R-1  100%
R-2  100%
R-3  67%
R-1M 67%
R-MH 67%
Notes to Table:
**Note** If the primary use is residential, and it is located in a commercial
or industrial zoning district, the setback requirements would follow the
zoning district in which located.
 
   (B)   (1)   An accessory building attached to a main building shall be made
structurally a part and have a common wall with the main building and shall
comply in all respects with the requirements applicable to the principal
building. Provided detached, open-sided carports may be located in the side
yard, no closer to the front lot line than the front building line of the
principal building and provided required side setbacks are met. Unless attached
to the principal structure, accessory buildings shall be located at least ten
feet from any other structure or as provided in the building code whichever is
more restrictive.
   (C)   With regard to height limitations, accessory structures in residential
districts shall not exceed the height of the primary structure, measured from
the eave; and in commercial and industrial districts, such structures shall not
exceed 30 feet in height above the highest part of the lot(s) upon which it is
constructed or the height of the principal structure on the lot.
   (D)   A principal structure must already exist on a lot, or a similarly
owned adjoining lot, prior to issuing a building permit for an accessory
building.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-010, passed 4-21-2026)
§ 152.142 RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   General. Residential accessory uses shall include the following
accessory uses, activities, facilities and structures: accessory dwelling units
(ADU), fences and walls; garages, carports and off-street parking and loading
areas; gardens; greenhouses; gates and guard houses; home occupations (subject
to limitations and requirements of divisions (B) and (C) below); playhouses,
patios, cabanas, porches, gazebos and household storage buildings; radio and
television receiving antennas; recreational and play facilities for residents;
storm and fallout shelters; and other necessary and customary uses determined
to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal use on the lot.
   (B)   Home occupations permitted.
      (1)   The home office or business is clearly secondary to the use of the
dwelling as a residence and does not change the residential character or
appearance of the dwelling or lot in any visible manner.
      (2)   The work done in the home office or business creates no
objectionable odor, noticeable vibration or offensive noise that increases a
level of ambient sound at the property lines.
      (3)   The home office or business does not involve the external display
of goods or services and does not cause unsightly conditions or waste visible
from off the property.
      (4)   The home office or business does not cause interference with any
type of communication signal reception in the vicinity.
      (5)   Permitted home occupations shall not include the employment of any
persons not residing on the premises in the performance of the occupation.
      (6)   The home office or business sells no articles on the premises that
are not produced on the premises.
      (7)   The home office or business occupies no more than 10% of the total
floor area of the residence.
      (8)   There shall be no external alteration of the dwelling, nor storage
of supplies or equipment outside.
      (9)   Not more than one truck of not more than and one-half-ton capacity
and no semi-trailers, incidental to the home occupation, shall be kept on the
premises, except as allowed by conditional use.
      (10)   Customers may visit the site only during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. and no more than six customers or clients may visit the site in any
single day.
      (11)   Parking to serve a home occupation shall be provided off-street
and no such parking shall be permitted in a required setback, other than in a
driveway. In no event shall yard areas be converted to off-street parking to
serve a home occupation.
   (C)   Home occupations prohibited. Prohibited home occupations include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Barber and beauty shops with more than one chair, and requiring any
upgrade in electric service;
      (2)   Dispatch centers, where workers come to the site to be dispatched
to other locations;
      (3)   Commercial stables, kennels and animal boarding and care
facilities;
      (4)   Assembly or repair of large appliances; and
      (5)   Repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with internal
combustion engines or any other work related to motor vehicles and their parts.
   (D)   Garage sales. Garage sales, also commonly called rummage or yard
sales, are permitted as accessory uses; provided, they meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Each such sale shall be permitted by an approved garage sale
application.
      (2)   Each property address and/or person shall be limited to no more
than four such sales per year.
      (3)   Sales shall not last longer than three consecutive days.
      (4)   Sales are conducted on the owner’s property. Multiple-family sales
are permitted if they are held on the property of one of the participants.
      (5)   Directional and advertising signs, not larger than nine square
feet, shall be free standing; that is, they shall not be placed on traffic or
official signs, utility poles or trees, and shall be removed promptly after
completion of the sale.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.143 NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Non-residential accessory uses are allowed only in association with
permitted, non-residential principal uses and shall include, but not be limited
to, the accessory uses, activities, facilities and structures enumerated below.
Such uses shall not be allowed if such would cause or increase parking non-
conformity for the principal use. Such use may also necessitate additional
required parking because of its own nature or character. Accessory uses shall
not occupy required parking areas or off-street parking areas (spaces or isles)
approved as part of a site plan. Accessory use must be placed in compliance
with §§
152.088 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential accessory uses include:
      (1)   Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food services when operated
primarily for the convenience of employees, residents, clients or visitors to
the principal use;
      (2)   Dwelling units, other than mobile homes, when used or intended to
be used for security or maintenance personnel;
      (3)   Guard houses, gates, fences and walls;
      (4)   Offices for allowed business and industrial uses when the office is
located on the same site as the principal use;
      (5)   Parking garages and off-street parking and loading facilities;
      (6)   Radio and television receiving antennas;
      (7)   Restaurants, newsstands, gift shops, swimming pools, tennis courts,
workout rooms, club and lounges when in a permitted hotel, motel or office
building;
      (8)   Sale of goods produced as a part of allowed industrial activities
when on the same site as the principal industrial use;
      (9)   The storage of merchandise when located within the same building as
the principal business;
      (10)   On-premises commercial, bulletin, nameplate and real estate signs;
provided, such are non-flashing; and
      (11)   Other necessary and customary uses determined by the Planning
Official to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal use on
the lot.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
SPECIAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES
§ 152.155 GENERAL.
   Uses permitted, or those permitted subject to conditional use approval,
shall be subject to the requirements of the district provisions as supplemented
or modified by this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.156 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   All adult entertainment uses shall be subject to the following standards.
   (A)   The building housing an adult entertainment use shall be located at
least 1,320 feet from the following uses: church; library; day care center;
elementary, middle or high school; and single-family, duplex or multi-family
residential uses. This distance shall be defined by a radius of 1,320 feet,
measured from the nearest exterior wall of the subject building.
   (B)   An adult entertainment use shall not be conducted in any manner that
provides the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”, from any public
right-of-way. This provision shall apply to any and all displays, decorations
or show windows.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.157 CAR WASHES.
   Car washes and similar such establishments shall provide paved parking for
at least five vehicles, plus 50 feet of stacking space for vehicles. Where any
such use is located on a lot abutting a residential district, and where any
part shall be built along such line, any entrance or exit shall be by way of a
major street. Wastewater from such establishments shall not be allowed to run
into the street or storm sewer; rather, such discharge of wastewater shall be
into a sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.158 EMERGENCY HOUSING UNITS.
   Emergency housing units shall not be approved as conditional uses in R-1, R-
2, R-3, R-1M and R-MH Districts, for the purpose of providing temporary
accommodations for persons in need of daily assistance due to health reasons.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.159 MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARKS.
   Manufactured housing parks may be permitted as conditional uses in R-MH
Districts. The following minimum standards apply to new parks and expansions of
existing parks.
   (A)   Setbacks. Each manufactured housing unit space shall be set back at
least 30 feet from all street rights-of-way and at least 20 feet from all other
lot lines.
   (B)   Minimum lot size and space size. Manufactured housing parks shall
contain at least 4,350 square feet of gross site area for each manufactured
housing unit space within the park. Each individual manufactured housing unit
space shall be at least 3,000 square feet in area but shall not occupy more
than 50% of the lot area.
   (C)   Separation of units. Each manufactured housing unit and accessory
structure shall be separated by at least 20 feet of horizontal distance from
all other manufactured housing units and accessory structures.
   (D)   Parking. At least two paved parking spaces, 180 square feet in area in
each space, shall be provided as a part of each manufactured housing unit
space. To provide for guests, one additional paved parking space, at least 180
square feet in area, shall be provided for each ten manufactured housing unit
spaces. These guest parking spaces shall be centrally located within the park.
   (E)   Driveways.
      (1)   Length and design. Internal driveways or courts designed to have
one end permanently closed, shall be no more than 400 feet long unless approved
by the city’s Planning Commission. A turn-around having an outside roadway
diameter of at least 80 feet shall be provided at the closed end of any
driveway.
      (2)   Paving. All internal driveways shall be paved with asphalt. The
minimum requirements are six inches of compacted SB2 gravel with three inches
of asphalt surface on firm subgrade. Property owners shall be responsible for
maintaining paving on all internal driveways.
      (3)   Width. Drives shall have a minimum paved width of 26 feet. One-way
drives are specifically prohibited.
   (F)   Signs. One detached, indirectly illuminated sign, not exceeding 20
square feet in area, may be erected at the main entrance to the manufactured
housing park.
   (G)   Refuse collection facilities. Refuse collection facilities and/or
provisions shall be indicated on the site plan and shall be provided in
accordance with city standards. There shall be opaque screening on three sides
of dumpsters.
   (H)   Fire protection. Fire lines and fire hydrants shall be shown on the
site plan and shall be provided in accordance with recommendations of the Fire
Marshal. No manufactured housing unit space shall be more than 250 feet from a
fire hydrant.
   (I)   Water and wastewater service. Each manufactured housing unit shall be
connected to a public sanitary sewer and a public water supply system.
   (J)   Underground utilities. All light, gas, water, telephone and cable
television distribution and service lines to each individual manufactured
housing unit shall be placed underground and conform to all state and local
codes and regulations.
   (K)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Official
to make an annual inspection of each approved manufactured housing park, and
present to the park owner and unit owner, a written list of existing
violations, should there be any.
   (L)   Resident managers. In manufactured housing parks containing 30 or more
units, a manager must reside within the park area.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.160 MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNITS; RESIDENTIAL DESIGN.
   (A)   Manufactured housing units, those that do not meet the definition of
manufactured housing unit, residential design, shall be considered permitted
uses only in R-1M and R-MH Districts. Compliance with the standards outlined in
§
152.159(D) through (H) of this chapter are required. All used MHU manufactured
housing units must pass an inspection provided by the owner to ensure
compliance with the federal standards. No permit or other approval shall be
granted for the placement of a mobile home within the city corporate limits.
Exchange or replacement of existing manufactured housing units shall only be
permitted in accordance with §
152.110 of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance with all of the standards of this section is required in
order for a manufactured housing unit to be classified as a residential design,
manufactured housing unit.
      (1)   Size.
         (a)   The minimum width of a residential design, manufactured housing
unit shall be 24 feet; with width measured perpendicular to the longest axis at
the narrowest part.
         (b)   The length of a residential design, manufactured housing unit
shall not exceed four times its width, with length measured along the longest
axis.
         (c)   A residential design, manufactured housing unit shall have a
minimum area of 1,200 square feet (enclosed and heated living area).
      (2)   Roof.
         (a)   Pitch. The roof must be predominantly double-pitched and have a
minimum vertical rise of four inches for every 12 inches of horizontal run.
         (b)   Materials. The roof must be covered with material that is
customarily used on site-built housing units. Customary materials include
asphalt composition or fiberglass shingles.
         (c)   Eaves. The roof shall have a minimum eave projection and roof
overhang of ten inches, which may include a gutter.
      (3)   Siding.
         (a)   Materials. Exterior siding must be of a material customarily
used on site-built housing units. Customary materials include wood,
composition, simulated wood, clapboards, conventional vinyl or metal siding,
brick, stucco or similar materials. Customary materials do not include smooth,
ribbed or corrugated metal or plastic panels or material that has a high gloss
finish.
         (b)   Design and placement. Siding material shall extend below the top
of the foundation or curtain wall or the joint between the siding and enclosure
wall shall be flashed in accordance with the city’s adopted Building Code.
      (4)   Installation of unit.
         (a)   Guidelines. The unit shall be installed in accordance with the
recommended installation procedures of the manufacturer, and the standards
established by the International Building Code, as adopted by the state, as
well as those established by the state’s Manufactured Home Commission.
         (b)   Foundation. A continuous, permanent concrete or masonry
foundation or masonry curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation
and access, which may include walk-out basements and garages, shall be
installed under the perimeter of the unit; also, in accordance with the above
referenced requirements.
      (5)   Entrance landing area. At the main entrance door to the unit, there
shall be a landing that is a minimum of five square feet, constructed in
accordance with Building Code requirements.
      (6)   Transport equipment. All running gear, tongues, axles and wheels
must be removed at the time of installation of the unit on the lot.
      (7)   Finished floor elevation. The finished floor of the unit shall meet
the manufacturer’s specifications unless the unit is located in a floodplain;
in which case floodplain regulations shall rule.
      (8)   Additions. Attached additions and detached garages shall comply
with the Building Code and floodplain regulations, if applicable. All standards
of this section shall apply to such additions and garages.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.161 MANUFACTURED HOUSING SUBDIVISIONS.
   Manufactured housing subdivisions may be permitted as conditional uses in R-
MH Districts. The following minimum standards apply to new manufactured housing
subdivisions and expansions of existing manufactured housing subdivisions.
   (A)   Setbacks. Each manufactured housing unit space shall be set back at
least 30 feet from all street rights-of-way and at least 20 feet from all other
lot lines.
   (B)   Minimum lot size and space size. Manufactured housing subdivisions
shall contain at least 4,350 square feet of gross site area for each
manufactured housing unit space within the subdivision. Each individual
manufactured housing unit space shall be at least 3,000 square feet in area,
but shall not occupy more than 50% of the lot area.
   (C)   Separation of units. Each manufactured housing unit and accessory
structure shall be separated by at least 20 feet of horizontal distance from
all other manufactured housing units and accessory structures.
   (D)   Parking. At least two paved parking spaces, 180 square feet in area in
each space, shall be provided as a part of each manufactured housing unit
space. To provide for guests, one additional paved parking space, at least 180
square feet in area, shall be provided for each ten manufactured housing unit
spaces. These guest parking spaces shall be centrally located within the
subdivision.
   (E)   Driveways.
      (1)   Length and design. Internal driveways or courts designed to have
one end permanently closed, shall be no more than 400 feet long unless approved
by the city’s Planning Commission. A turn-around having an outside roadway
diameter of at least 80 feet shall be provided at the closed end of any
driveway.
      (2)   Paving. All internal driveways shall be paved with asphalt. The
minimum requirements are six inches of compacted SB2 gravel with three inches
of asphalt surface on firm subgrade. Property owners shall be responsible for
maintaining paving on all internal driveways.
      (3)   Width. Drives shall have a minimum paved width of 26 feet. One-way
drives are specifically prohibited.
   (F)   Signs. One detached, indirectly illuminated sign, not exceeding 20
square feet in area, may be erected at the main entrance to the manufactured
housing subdivision.
   (G)   Refuse collection facilities. Refuse collection facilities and/or
provisions shall be indicated on the site plan and shall be provided in
accordance with city standards. There shall be opaque screening on three sides
of dumpsters.
   (H)   Fire protection. Fire lines and fire hydrants shall be shown on the
site plan, and shall be provided in accordance with recommendations of the Fire
Marshal. No manufactured housing unit space shall be more than 250 feet from a
fire hydrant.
   (I)   Water and wastewater service. Each manufactured housing unit shall be
connected to a public sanitary sewer and a public water supply system.
   (J)   Underground utilities. All light, gas, water, telephone, internet and
cable television distribution and service lines to each individual manufactured
housing unit shall be placed underground and conform to all state and local
codes and regulations.
   (K)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Official
to make an annual inspection of each approved manufactured housing park, and
present to the lot owner and unit owner, a written list of existing violations,
should there be any.
   (L)   Resident managers. In manufactured housing subdivisions, a manager is
not required to reside within the subdivision area.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.162 TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Temporary uses, buildings and structures, not used for dwelling purposes,
may be placed on a lot or parcel and occupied only under the following
conditions.
   (A)   Exemption. Temporary uses located in temporary structures will not
require a conditional use permit if they meet the following requirements: the
use and/or structure shall not exceed three days in a 12-month time period; the
temporary structure shall not exceed 800 square feet in size and shall not
create a traffic hazard.
   (B)   Conditional use permit required. A temporary use such as a helicopter
ride, balloon ride, carnival, circus, church tent revival, temporary tent
sales, sales using non-permanent temporary structures and outdoor sales/service
activity or similar temporary uses that do not meet the exemption requirements
shall be permitted only in a non-residential zoning district and shall have no
facilities located nearer to a residential district than 200 feet and no nearer
a occupied residential structure than 300 feet. The site shall have access
drives so located as to minimize traffic hazards. The applicant shall show that
adequate measures will be taken to prevent odor, dust, noise, lights and
traffic from becoming a nuisance to uses on other adjacent properties. Each
conditional use permit for such an enterprise shall be valid for a period of
not more than 15 days and shall not be permitted for more than two such periods
for the same location within any one calendar year.
   (C)   Temporary classrooms. Up to two temporary classrooms may be permitted
for public or private schools with expansion needs. The classrooms shall meet
local codes and ordinances. The buildings shall be removed within 15 days after
construction of any permanent structure intended for expansion purposes is
complete. The temporary classrooms shall not be allowed more than 18 months,
unless expressly authorized by the city’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.163 ANIMAL FARMS; CHICKENS.
   (A)   Farm animals and fowls are not permitted in any district.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An officer employed by or under contract with
the city that is responsible for animal control operations in the city. The
City Code Enforcement Official may be designated as the Animal Control Officer
by the Mayor for this section.
         ANIMAL RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal off the premises of the owner, or
off the premises of any person having charge of an animal, and not under the
control of the owner or person in charge, or a member of his immediate family,
by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any, hobby
chicken, domesticated fowl and including domesticated ducks, to run at large
within the corporate limits of the city. It shall be lawful to keep poultry
flocks of any size in RW Zones of the city, so long as such fowl are confined.
      (3)   It shall be lawful for any person to keep, permit or allow any fowl
within the corporate limits of the city in only zones R-1 and R-1M, under the
following terms and conditions.
         (a)   No more than four hens total shall be allowed for each single-
family dwelling. No birds shall be allowed in multi-family complexes, including
duplexes, townhomes and condominiums.
         (b)   No roosters shall be allowed.
         (c)   There shall be no outside slaughtering of fowl.
         (d)   All fowl must be kept at all times in a secure enclosure. Secure
enclosure shall include a self-contained fenced coop, if said fence is
constructed from a solid non-permeable material built with either solid wood,
metal or plastic components. A fenced-in yard shall not suffice as a secure
enclosure.
         (e)   Coops must be situated at least 25 feet from the nearest
neighbor’s residence or dwelling and must be located in the rear or side yard
(not placed in side yard of corner lots), and not in the front yard.
         (f)   Enclosures must be kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all
times and must be cleaned on a regular basis so as to prevent offensive odors.
         (g)   All food used for chickens shall be kept in a suitable container
with a tight-fitting cover so as to be inaccessible to rodents.
      (4)   This division (B) is not intended to apply to indoor birds, which
in the opinion of the Animal Control Officer, are kept as pets, including as an
example, but not limited to, parrots or parakeets, nor is it intended to apply
to the lawful transportation of fowl through the corporate limits of the city
or apply to poultry or fowl kept in areas of the city which are zoned RW as set
forth herein above.
      (5)   Fowl currently existing in the city shall not be “grandfathered” or
permitted to remain after the effective date of this code, except as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.164 DETACHED ACCESSORY UNITS; ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   (1)   A detached accessory unit is a subordinate building to the
principal building and normally must be located on the same lot as the
principal building; however, if the subordinate accessory building is located
on an adjacent lot to the principal building and if the both lots share the
same ownership and zoning district, the subordinate accessory building may be
approved; provided that, adequate assurance is provided by the applicant to the
city, at the sole discretion of the reviewing authority of the city, that both
lots with the subordinate accessory unit and the principal unit must be
conveyed together in the future.
      (2)   The use of the subordinate building must be a use that is an
approved residential accessory use, and must be permitted through the
conditional use permitting process. Both the principal and accessory building
must have similar or compatible construction features and materials, as well as
coloring.
      (3)   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) must be located on the same lot as
the principal building.
   (B)   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is a self-contained, and
independently accessed, living unit on the same parcel as a single-family
dwelling of greater square footage that includes its own living, cooking,
sleeping and sanitation facilities.
      (1)   It may be attached, detached or internal to the principal single-
family dwelling structure.
      (2)   If attached or detached, shall not be more than 75% of square
footage of house, or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less.
      (3)   An ADU application fee to review site and building plans must be
submitted.
      (4)   Site plan must include location of any existing sewer, water,
electrical or telecommunication lines, as well as any proposed new sewer,
water, electrical or telecommunication lines.
      (5)   After approval of site plan, ADU building permit fee must be
submitted.
      (6)   An applicant must provide a “will-serve” letter for water and sewer
services from the Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District.
      (7)   The site plan and construction must conform to applicable
regulatory requirements, such as the state’s Fire Prevention Code and other
locally adopted codes and ordinances.
      (8)   If attached or detached, only one ADU is permitted per lot having a
single primary dwelling of a single-family residence.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.165 SELF-STORAGE UNITS.
   The following are prohibited uses of self-storage facilities or areas.
   (A)   Residential (mini) self-storage units; the following are prohibited
uses of self-storage facilities or areas:
      (1)   Storage of flammable or hazardous chemicals, petroleum products or
explosives;
      (2)   No retail sales, commercial, wholesale, miscellaneous sales shall
take place from individual units or other areas within the area surrounding the
individual units with the exception of the commercial frontage or office
buildings on-site;
      (3)   The servicing, repairing or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats,
trailers, lawn mowers, appliances or other similar equipment;
      (4)   The operation of power tools, spray-painting equipment, table saws,
lathes, compressors, welding equipment, kilns or other similar equipment by the
renters of the units and/or renters of any outdoor storage space; and
      (5)   Any use that is noxious or offensive because of odors, dust, noise,
fumes or vibrations.
   (B)   No individual storage unit may be used for the purposes of operating a
business, except for the purpose of providing storage for a business that is
located off-site.
   (C)   Any outside storage including boats, trailers, equipment, vehicles
and/or vehicles/equipment for rental use shall be screened and shielded from
view (in all seasons) of adjacent property or a public right-of-way.
   (D)   Self-storage uses located within or adjacent to any district other
than I-M (Medium Industrial) or I-L (Light Industrial) shall provide the
following:
      (1)   A minimum eight-foot tall masonry wall or other opaque decorative
fence (as approved by the city) on the sides and rear of the property;
      (2)   The frontage of the property shall not contain any visible exterior
roll up doors. Along with driveways and parking areas, the right-of-way
frontage of the property shall consist of one or a mixture of the following
structure types:
         (a)   The facility office, manager’s residence, retail or other mixed
use type buildings (as allowable within the zoning category where the
development is located);
         (b)   Storage buildings with facades mimicking standard commercial/
office development;
         (c)   Any portion of the right-of-way frontage not containing
buildings or entrance gates must be completely screened from the ROW by a six-
foot tall minimum height masonry wall/decorative fencing facing the street;
and/or
         (d)   1.   Entrance gates may not be chain link. The gates shall be an
opaque material such as wood, decorative metal or other material.
            2.   Decorative non-opaque gates such as wrought iron or other
similar type gates may be acceptable at the discretion of the city’s Planning
Commission.
      (3)   All lighting shall not exceed 20 feet in height and be full cut-
off, shielded lighting as defined by the IESNA. Such lighting shall be directed
to prevent the trespass of light onto the adjacent residential district or use;
and
      (4)   Doors remain in good repair and closed unless being accessed.
   (E)   Self-storage units located adjacent to an H-G, H-C, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-
1M or R-MH District or existing single-family detached or duplex residential
use shall provide the following (in addition to all above requirements in this
section): an undisturbed vegetative buffer of at least 15 feet in width
adjacent to those areas bordering the residential district or use. Where such
buffer does not have dense preexisting vegetation at least eight feet in
height, one tree for each 30 linear feet and one shrub for each five linear
feet shall be planted and maintained within the buffer. Fast growing species
that provide dense evergreen foliage shall be used to meet these requirements
and shall be subject to the approval of the city’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.166 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   All permitted outdoor storage of material and equipment within
C-2 and I-L Zones shall be screened from the public street right-of-way and
private drives in accordance with the regulations of this section. All
permitted outdoor storage within C-2 and I-L Zones shall be screened from all
surrounding properties in accordance with the regulations of this section.
      (2)   The outdoor display of materials or equipment solely for retail
sale or lease, such as automobiles, farm and garden supplies, and the like
shall not be required to be screened as set forth in this section.
   (B)   At the expense of the owner or lessee of the property, outdoor storage
uses shall be completely surrounded by a view-obscuring physical barrier
(fencing, earthen berms, walls and the like), by view-obscuring vegetation or
by a combination of a physical barrier and vegetation. The view-obscuring
physical or vegetative barrier shall be of sufficient height to prevent the
view of the premises from vehicular and pedestrian traffic on adjacent streets
and to screen the view from adjacent properties.
   (C)   Where vegetation is used to meet the requirements of this section, the
vegetation shall be planted at a density sufficient to become view-obscuring
(in all seasons) within two years from the date of planting. If vegetation
planted under this division does not become view-obscuring within two years, a
view-obscuring fence or other physical barrier shall be immediately installed.
If vegetation dies, and no longer provides view obstruction, a view-obstructing
physical barrier or replacement vegetation shall be immediately installed.
      (1)   The vegetative buffer shall be a minimum of ten feet wide in depth,
and at least 50% of the trees and shrubs shall be evergreen. A landscape plan
shall be submitted for review and approval by the Planning Official. The
landscape plan shall provide the following information:
         (a)   The landscaping plan is required to address the following
requirements:
            1.   Street trees;
            2.   Landscape street frontage buffer;
            3.   Interior parking lot landscaping; and
            4.   Perimeter landscaping.
         (b)   The following information is required on landscape plans and
shall be completed by a landscape architect or landscape professional in order
for the Planning Official to review for compliance:
            1.   Existing vegetation. Location, general type and quality of
existing vegetation, including trees on site;
            2.   Preservation. Existing vegetation to be saved;
            3.   Protection. Methods and details for protecting existing
vegetation during construction and approved sediment control plan;
            4.   Proposed plants. Location and labels for all proposed plants;
            5.   Landscape details. Plant list with botanical and common names,
quantity, spacing and size of all proposed landscape improvements such as earth
berms, walls, fences, screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture, lights
and courts or paved areas;
            6.   Installation details. Planning and installation details as
necessary to ensure conformance with all required standards;
            7.   Corner sight triangle. The corner sight triangle shall be
indicated on the plan with dimensioned shaded area;
            8.   Irrigation. The plans shall indicate the type of irrigation to
be used. If a hose bib is proposed, the location shall be shown on the plan.
            9.   Three-year guarantee. The guarantee from the developer that
all plant materials will be warranted for a period of three years from the time
of installation. If any material should fail to survive during that period, it
would be replaced during the appropriate planting season.
      (2)   Existing vegetation may be used to meet the requirements for
screening.
         (a)   The existing vegetation shall obscure view in all seasons.
         (b)   Existing vegetation, fencing or walls, to be used as screening
shall be located entirely on the subject property, and cannot be considered if
located within the street right-of-way or on adjacent property.
   (D)   When a physical barrier is used to meet the requirements of this
section, the structure shall be opaque and provide view obstruction from
surrounding properties and from the street right-of-way as set out in this
section.
      (1)   Fencing and walls shall be a minimum of six feet in height and
shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   Berms may exceed eight feet in height if needed to be effective for
screening. Berms shall not have side slopes steeper than three horizontal feet
to one vertical foot. Berms shall be vegetated. The vegetation plans shall be
submitted for review and approval by the Planning Official.
      (3)   Chain link (even with screening cloth or slats), barbed wire,
corrugated metal and other agricultural type fencing is not allowed to be used
as a physical screening barrier.
      (4)   No commercial signage shall be allowed to be placed on the physical
barrier.
      (5)   Screening shall be uniform, consistent and neat in appearance, of
materials compatible with the surrounding development, and shall be properly
maintained during the life of the use.
      (6)   In commercial and industrial districts, a physical barrier does not
include portable structures like railroad cars, semi-trailers, van bodies,
Conex boxes and the like. An exception is allowed for shipping containers (ISO
intermodal containers) uniformly painted a neutral color and having a similarly
colored, pitched roof installed on top thereof, oriented outward from the
storage area.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025; Ord. 2026-010, passed 4-21-2026)
§ 152.167 OUTDOOR VENDORS.
   (A)   Purpose and overview.
      (1)    The purpose of this section is to ensure pubic health, safety,
order and promote the welfare of the community by establishing a uniform set of
rules governing outdoor vendors.
      (2)    Short-term vendors and recurring vendors will be allowed in
commercial zoned areas only and as outlined in following sections.
   (B)   Definitions.
      CITY. The City of Holiday Island
      OUTDOOR VENDOR. Any individual or business selling crafts, food, produce
or merchandise from a temporary setup includes, as example, trucks, wagons
temporary structures tables, tents and the like, not attached to permanent
building or foundation.
      REOCCURRING TEMPORARY VENDOR. A temporary vendor of three days or less
which will run on a regular basis (i.e. weekly or monthly) for all or part of a
year. This category of vendor requires a permit as later described.
      SHORT-TERM. A period of less than three continuous days.
   (C)   Outdoor vendors without permit. Allowed outdoor vendors not requiring
permit include:
      (1)   Goods wares or merchandise temporarily deposited on sidewalk in
normal of delivery, shipment or transfer;
      (2)   Unattended stands for sale of newspapers, magazines, periodicals or
similar materials;
      (3)   Outdoor or sidewalk sales as part of full-time retail tenant’s
seasonal promotional activities;
      (4)   Local residents temporary produce stand selling personally grown
fruit or vegetables, farm produce or edible goods on owner’s property or with
owner’s permission;
      (5)   Outdoor markets, special events if organized, sponsored or in
conjunction with activity organized by HIHA, FOB, the city, HISID, Chamber of
Commerce, Elks, Rotary, Fire Department or Auxiliary, any local church or
generally recognized local organization; and
      (6)   Garage sales as permitted by city ordinance.
   (D)   Permit required.
      (1)   A reoccurring temporary vendor will be required to obtain a permit.
      (2)   If reoccurring on regular basis, a permit will be required per
season. “Per season” may be a part of year or one year, but not longer than one
calendar year.
      (3)   The permit can be obtained at City Hall at a cost of $25.
      (4)   The permit requires details of location, times and items sold
permission of property owner and after issuance must be displayed in visible
location at all times.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any above requirements, all vendors are responsible
for compliance with state, county and local laws concerning vending. Any
complaints will be reviewed by the Planning Commission, reserving the right to
revoke any permit.
(Ord. 2026-006, passed 3-17-2026)
SIGNS
§ 152.180 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Exception. Signs are prohibited in all zoning districts unless:
      (1)   Constructed pursuant to a valid building permit when required by
this code; and
      (2)   Authorized under this code.
   (B)   Prohibition of fees. A property owner may not accept a fee for posting
or maintaining a sign allowed under division (C) below and any sign that is
posted or maintained in violation of this provision is prohibited.
   (C)   Commercial signs in residential zones. Commercial signs are prohibited
in exclusively single-family residential zones (R-1, R-2 or R-3), except for
those properties on which a home occupation or a transient residential use has
been approved by the city.
   (D)   Prohibited signs. The following signs shall be prohibited in the city:
      (1)   Billboards and digital billboards;
      (2)   Highway signs;
      (3)   Signs with fluctuating illumination, including any sign that
flashes, blinks, fluctuates in light intensity or is animated;
      (4)   Signs which revolve, rotate or move in whole or in part;
      (5)   Windblown signs, except flags as described in §
152.181(A)(5) of this chapter, as provided herein;
      (6)   Signs that constitute a traffic hazard are prohibited, and no sign
or other advertising shall be erected at the intersection of any street in such
a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision as defined in §
152.197 of this chapter;
      (7)   Off-premises signs;
      (8)   Roof signs;
      (9)   Search lights;
      (10)   Signs on or affixed to trees or utility poles; except that, signs
may be placed on utility poles for utility identification purposes by the
proper utility;
      (11)   Reflective or mirrored signs;
      (12)   Signs placed or affixed within public right-of-way or encroach
upon a public right- of-way, except for government signs and wall signs, awning
signs, canopy signs, projecting signs, shingle signs and sandwich board signs
may encroach, as provided herein; and
      (13)   Residential districts do not permit any signs greater than four
square feet.
   (E)   Vehicles. It shall be unlawful to use a vehicle or trailer as a sign
in circumvention or violation of any part of this code. Painted, decaled and
magnetic signs attached to vehicles relating to the commercial business of the
vehicle owner are permitted.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.181 SIGNS AUTHORIZED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
   The following provisions sets forth signs that are authorized by §
152.180(A)(2) of this chapter in every district and do not require a permit.
   (A)   Government signs. This code does not apply to signs erected,
maintained or posted by Holiday Island Suburban Improvement District, city,
county, state or federal governments, but the regulations in this code clarify
that government signs are allowed in every zoning district of the city which
form the expression of this government when erected and maintained and include
the signs described herein below when erected and maintained pursuant to law.
      (1)   Traffic control. Traffic control devices on private or public
property are allowed to be erected and maintained in order to provide for
public safety and in order to comply with the traffic control laws of the state
and the city, as well as the manual on uniform traffic-control devices adopted
by the Federal Highway Administration.
      (2)   Public interest signs. Public interest signs of a non-commercial
nature and in the public interest, erected by or on the order of a public
officer in the performance of their duty, such as public notices, safety signs,
danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic and street signs, memorial plaques and
signs of historical, environmental or local interest.
      (3)   Street numbers.
         (a)   Each property owner must mark their property using numerals that
identify the address of the property so that public safety departments can
easily identify the address from the public street. Where required under §
153.137 of this code of ordinances or other law the identification must be on
the principal building on the property.
         (b)   The size and location of the identifying numerals and letters if
any must be proportional to the size of the building and the distance from the
street to the building and in no case larger than four square feet. In cases
where the building is not located within view of the public street, the
identifier must be located on the mailbox or other suitable device such that it
is visible from the street.
      (4)   Required postings by law. Where a federal, state or local law
requires a property owner to post a sign on the owner’s property to warn of a
danger or to prohibit access to the property either generally or specifically,
the owner must comply with the federal, state or local law to exercise that
authority by posting a sign on the property. The size of such signs should be
no larger than 16 square feet or the minimum size required by law. No more than
two such signs are allowed or the minimum amount of signs that are required by
law.
      (5)   Flags. A flag may be displayed as provided under the law that
adopts or regulates its use and as provided in division (E) below.
      (6)   Public safety. The signs described in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) and
(A)(3) above are an important component of measures necessary to protect the
public safety and serve the compelling governmental interest of protecting
traffic safety, serving the requirements of emergency response and protecting
property rights or the rights of persons on property.
      (7)   Construction signs. Government sign placards and other signs
required by state and/or federal law to be displayed during construction or
remodeling of buildings or other site/infrastructure work.
   (B)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary sign limitations. It is the intent of this code to limit
the aesthetic impact of signs on properties in order to prevent unsightly
clutter, protect streetscapes, preserve property values and to promote traffic
safety. The unregulated accumulation of signs adversely affects these goals,
property values and public safety and so, accordingly, a person exercising the
right to place temporary signs on a property as described in this division (B)
must limit the number of temporary signs on the property per quarter acre at
any one time to two, plus a sign allowed in division (B)(2)(b) below, or if the
property is smaller than quarter acres, then no more than two signs, plus a
sign allowed in division (B)(2)(b) below per principal building on the property
unless a court having jurisdiction determines that additional signs must be
permitted and then the signage must be limited to the fewest signs and the
smallest accumulated sign area permissible under the court’s determination.
      (2)   Temporary signage. Temporary signs are allowed at any:
         (a)   A property owner may place signage with sign face square footage
not to exceed four square feet and less than four feet in height on the
property at any time; and
         (b)   A property owner may place one sign no larger than six square
feet in one window on the property at any time.
      (3)   Temporary signs during elections. Temporary signs may be located on
the owner’s property for a period of 60 days prior to any federal, state or
local election that represents the district in which the property is located or
involves an issue on the ballot of an election within the district where the
property is located. All such temporary signs shall be removed within three
days after the election has occurred.
      (4)   Temporary signs during times when a property is open to the public.
One temporary sign may be located per entrance (from private/public road) on
the owner’s property on a day when the property owner is opening the property
to the public during duration of seasonal openings; such sign shall not exceed
12 square feet in size and should be removed after the seasonal opening or
other temporary opening is complete.
      (5)   Temporary signs for new business openings. One temporary sign may
be located per entrance from the road on the owner’s property on a day when the
property owner is opening the property/business to the public; allowed for 90
days. Such sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in size.
      (6)   Temporary signs during holiday periods. (Reserved.)
      (7)   Sign face limitation. The sign face of any temporary sign, unless
otherwise limited in this division (B) must not be larger than six square feet.
   (C)   Lessors. For purposes of this section, a lessor of a property is
considered the property owner as to the property if the lessor holds a right to
use exclusive of others (or the sole right to occupy). If there are multiple
lessors of a property, then each lessor must have the same rights and duties as
the property owner as to the property the lessor leases and has the sole right
to occupy and the size of the property must be deemed to be the property that
the lessor has the sole right to occupy under the lease.
   (D)   Signs not in view. Signs not otherwise prohibited in this subchapter
and which are not exposed to view from a public street or public right-of-way,
public place or other property, shall not be regulated by the code.
   (E)   Flags. Flags shall be permitted on properties as follows.
      (1)   Residential zoning districts.
         (a)   In residential zoning districts (such as the zones currently
recognized in the city: R-1 Single-Family Residential, R-1M Single-Family and
Manufactured Homes Residential, R-2 Single-Family Residential, R-3 Single-
Family Residential and R-MH Residential Manufactured Homes) two flags and one
flag pole shall be allowed per premises.
         (b)   Each flag shall be a maximum of 15 square feet in area. The flag
pole shall be a maximum of 25 feet in height or no higher than the highest
point of the principal building’s roof, whichever is lower. Flag poles must be
placed within the property lot lines.
      (2)   Non-residential zoning districts. In all other non-residential
zoning districts, one flag per 25 feet of frontage on a right-of-way up to a
maximum of six flags and six flag poles per premises. Each flag shall be a
maximum of 24 square feet in area. Flag poles shall be a maximum of 50 feet in
height. Flag poles must meet the minimum of ten feet or utility easement
whichever is more restrictive.
   (F)   Obscuring traffic. Signs shall not be placed or located in such a
manner as they obscure the view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic and shall
not be placed within §
152.197 of this chapter.
   (G)   Permanent signs. Property owners in residential zones R-1, R-1M, R-MH,
R-2 and R-3 are permitted to place a permanent sign to advertise a home-based
business or short-term rental with a sign face square footage not to exceed
four square feet and less than four feet in height on the property.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.182 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   In general. A sign permit is required prior to the display and
erection of any permanent sign.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Application. An application for a sign permit must be filed with
the Code Enforcement Officer or designee on forms furnished by the city. The
applicant must provide sufficient information to determine if the proposed sign
is allowed under this code and other applicable laws, regulations and
ordinances. An application for any sign must state the date when the owner
intends to erect it.
      (2)   Review by Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer or
designee must promptly process the sign permit application and approve the
application, reject the application or notify the applicant of deficiencies in
the application within ten days after receipt. Any application that complies
with all provisions of this code, the zoning ordinance, the Building Code and
other applicable laws, regulations and ordinances shall be approved.
      (3)   Rejection of application. If the sign permit application is
rejected, the Code Enforcement Officer shall provide a list of the reasons for
the rejection in writing. An application must be rejected for non-compliance
with the terms of this code, the zoning ordinance, Building Code or other
applicable law, regulation or ordinance.
   (C)   Permit fee. A non-refundable fee as set forth in §
152.024 of this chapter adopted by the city must accompany all sign permit
applications.
   (D)   Duration and revocation of permit. If a sign is not installed and a
use permit issued within six months following the issuance of a sign permit the
permit shall be void. The city may revoke a sign permit under any of the
following circumstances and at any time:
      (1)   Misleading. The city determines that information in the application
was materially false or misleading;
      (2)   Conformity to application. The sign as installed does not conform
to the sign permit application;
      (3)   Violation of code. The sign violates this code, the zoning
ordinance, Building Code or other applicable law, regulation or ordinance; or
      (4)   Maintenance and abandonment. The Code Enforcement Officer
determines that the sign is not being properly maintained or has been
abandoned.
   (E)   Permits not required. Signs in residential districts as defined in §
152.181(G) of this chapter do not require permits.
   (F)   Appeals. All decision and interpretations of the Code Enforcement
Officer(s) under this code shall be considered final administrative actions for
the purpose of appeals set forth in § 152.069 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.183 SIGN REGULATIONS BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The following signs shall be permitted to the zoning districts as
indicated below. Specific requirements for each sign are shown on the following
pages. All of the following permanent sign types require a sign permit.
Sign/Zone H-C H-G R-1/ R-2 R-3 R-MH C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 I-L I-M DP PUD
                  R-1M
Sign/Zone      H-C H-G R-1/ R-2 R-3 R-MH C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 I-L I-M DP PUD
                       R-1M
Awning         C   X   X    X   X   C    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Canopy         C   X   X    X   X   C    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Crown          C   X   X    X   X   C    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Digital        X   X   X    X   X   X    X   C   C   C   C   C   X  C
Double post    C   X   X    X   X   X    X   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Monument       C   X   C    C   C   C    C   C   P   P   P   P   X  C
Projecting     C   X   X    X   X   X    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Pylon          X   X   X    X   X   X    X   C   C   C   C   C   X  C
Sandwich board C   X   X    X   X   X    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Shingle        SA  X   SA   SA  SA  SA   SA  P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Subdivision    C   X   C    C   C   C    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Wall           C   X   X    X   X   C    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Window         C   X   X    X   X   C    C   P   P   P   P   P   X  C
Notes to Table:
X = Not allowed
SA = See following tables/images
P = Permitted
C = Allowed through conditional use permit issued by the Planning
Commission
 
   (B)   Any sign type that is not listed in the table of division (A) above
shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The regulations for each sign type shall apply to any permitted and
allowed use in a zoning district listed in the table of division (A) above are
found as follows. The images illustrated are intended to convey pictorially a
sign type, not design recommendations. Image credits to: https://www.bing.com/
images/search.
      (1)   Awning signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-641.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A sign where graphics or symbols are painted, sewn
or otherwise adhered to the awning fabric or material that is soft or flexible
as an integrated part of the awning itself.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Width (max): no greater than 75% of the width or depth of the
awning.
            2.   Area (max): no maximum.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Shall not extend beyond the awning itself.
            2.   Only awnings over ground story windows may contain a sign.
         (d)   Number of signs. In a single tenant situation, one awning sign
permitted per awning. The awning sign can be placed on either the front or side
valance. For multi-tenant awning signs, and a canopy that extends the length of
several tenants, each tenant may have a maximum of nine square feet on the
awning sign.
         (e)   Total sign area allocation. The combined square footage of
awning, canopy, crown, projection and wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the
total square footage of the wall area of that side of the building, not to
exceed a maximum total amount of 800 square feet.
      (2)   Canopy signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-643.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. Any sign that is mounted, painted or otherwise
applied on or attached to an architectural canopy or structural protective
cover over an outdoor area.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Width: no greater than 75% of the width or depth of the
canopy.
            2.   Height of text or graphics on the canopy (max): two feet.
            3.   Sign area (max): 24 square feet.
            4.   Sidewalk/driving surface clearance (min): ten feet.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   For awnings attached to a building:
               a.   The canopy sign shall not extend beyond the length or the
width of the canopy, but it may extend either above or below the canopy.
               b.   Only awnings over ground story windows may contain a sign.
            2.   For free-standing awnings: the canopy sign shall not extend
beyond the length or the width of the canopy, but it may extend either above or
below the canopy.
         (d)   Number of signs.
            1.   For awnings attached to a building: one canopy sign permitted
per each customer entrance. The canopy sign can be placed on either the front
or side valance.
            2.   For free-standing awnings: one sign allowed per side for up to
two sides maximum.
         (e)   Total sign area allocation.
            1.   For awnings attached to a building: the combined square
footage of awning, canopy, crown, projection and wall signs shall not exceed
20% of the total square footage of the wall area of that side of the building,
not to exceed a maximum total amount of 800 square feet.
            2.   For free-standing awnings; no more than 24 square feet total
of awning signage allowed per free-standing awning.
      (3)   Crown sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-645.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A wall sign extending not more than three feet from
the building facade located on the upper horizontal band of a building at least
two stories in height.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area: 250 square feet.
            2.   Height (max): eight feet.
            3.   Projection from facade: three feet.
            4.   Width: no greater than 75% of the width or depth of the
facade.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Only permitted on buildings at least two stories in height.
            2.   Cannot be placed below the start of the highest floor and
cannot extend above the roofline.
            3.   Cannot cover architectural detail or windows.
         (d)   Number of signs.
            1.   No more than one crown sign per building facade and no more
than two crown signs per building are allowed.
            2.   No more than one tenant can be identified on the sign.
         (e)   Total sign area allocation. The combined square footage of
awning, canopy, crown, projection and wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the
total square footage of the wall area of that side of the building, not to
exceed a maximum total amount of 800 square feet.
      (4)   Digital sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-647.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. An electronically displayed sign that is static or
changes messages by any electronic process or remote control. Permanently
affixed sign which is wholly independent of a building for support. Must be
part of a free-standing sign type (monument, pylon or double post). A digital
sign shall only be used in conjunction with another non-digital signage type.
         (b)   Sign height, dimensions and number of signs.
            1.   Sign face area and height. The digital sign shall be no
greater than 50% of the size of the accompanying non-digital signage. Reference
the individual sign area restrictions for signage type with which the digital
sign will be paired.
            2.   Only one digital sign is allowed per street frontage of each
lot.
            3.   Total structure height (max): Divided into two sections of
intensity: 25 feet in height or less along Arkansas 23 in the commercial
district.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Allowed only within 50 linear feet of Arkansas 23 right-of-
way.
            2.   Must be set back at least ten feet from the front lot line and
ten feet back from the side lot line.
            3.   Must have highway frontage.
            4.   No sign message shall be displayed for a period of time less
than eight seconds.
            5.   No sign shall display animated messages, including flashing,
blinking, fading, rolling, shading, dissolving or any other effect that gives
the appearance of movement.
            6.   No sign shall include any audio message.
            7.   Transition from one message to another message shall appear
instantaneous as perceived by the human eye.
            8.   Each sign message shall be complete in itself and shall not
continue on a subsequent sign message.
            9.   Signs shall utilize automatic dimming technology to adjust the
brightness of the sign relative to ambient light so that at no time shall a
sign exceed a brightness level of three-tenths (0.3) foot candles above ambient
light, as measured using a foot candle (Lux) meter.
            10.   All signs shall contain a default mechanism that will cause
the sign to revert immediately to a black screen if the sign malfunctions.
      (5)   Double post sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-649.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A permanently affixed sign which is wholly
independent of a building for support where the primary support is supplied by
two posts.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area (max): 48 square feet.
            2.   Height (max): eight feet.
         (c)   Regulations. Must be set back at least five feet from the front
lot line and five feet back from the side lot line.
         (d)   Number of signs.
            1.   Only one double post sign structure (or monument or pylon
sign*) is allowed per street frontage.
            2.   Where more than one monument sign or pylon sign* is allowed on
the same property, must be a minimum of 500 feet apart.
      (6)   Monument sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-651.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A free-standing and permanently affixed sign that
is supported by a solid base (other than poles) and such that no air space is
visible within or between any portion of the sign display area and sign
structure.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area (max per sign):
               a.   One tenant: 48 square feet.
               b.   Two to three tenants: 72 square feet.
               c.   Four to five tenants: 84 square feet.
               d.   Six or more tenants: 108 square feet.
            2.   Height (max): eight feet for one to three tenants, 12 feet for
four to six or more tenants.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Must be set back at least ten feet from the front lot line and
ten feet from the side lot line.
            2.   The size of the monument sign for applicants which include
more than six tenants may be increased by conditional use permit approved by
the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Number of signs.
            1.   Only one monument, double post or freestanding sign structure
is allowed per street frontage.
            2.   Where more than one monument, double post or freestanding sign
structure is allowed on the same property, must be a minimum of 500 feet apart.
      (7)   Projecting sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-653.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A sign, other than a wall sign, that is mounted to
the wall or surface of a building or structure and which is supported by a wall
of a building or structure and projects from the building by 12 inches or more.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Height (max): four feet (mounted below second floor); eight
feet (mounted between the second).
            2.   Spacing from building facade (max): one foot.
            3.   Projection width (max): six feet.
            4.   Depth (max): one foot.
            5.   Clear height above sidewalk (min): ten feet.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   May be mounted on a building corner when the building is at
the intersection of two streets.
            2.   Top of the sign may be no higher than the top of the building.
         (d)   Number of signs. A maximum of one projecting sign or shingle
sign for each individual building or for each public/private street or parking
area frontage side of an individual building.
         (e)   Total sign area allocation. The combined square footage of
awning, canopy, crown, projection and wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the
total square footage of the wall area of that side of the building, not to
exceed a maximum total amount of 800 square feet.
      (8)   Pylon sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-655.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A sign erected and maintained on a freestanding
frame, mast or pole not attached to any building, and not including signs
mounted to the ground.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area (max): 60 square feet.
            2.   Total structure height 25 feet in height or less along
Arkansas 23 in commercial districts.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Single tenancy use only.
            2.   Allowed only within 50 linear feet of Arkansas 23.
         (d)   Number of signs.
            1.   Only one pylon sign structure* (or double post/monument sign)
is allowed per street frontage of each lot.
            2.   Where more than one monument sign or pylon sign structure* is
allowed on the same property, must be a minimum of 500 feet apart.
            3.   Placement of the sign within the lot may be evaluated by the
Planning Official to achieve appropriate spacing of signage between adjoining
lots (the goal is to keep signage evenly spaced along R.O.W. when possible).
      (9)   Sandwich board sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-657.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A movable sign not secured or attached to the
ground or surface upon which it is located.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area (max): nine square feet.
            2.   Sign height (max): three feet.
            3.   Sign width (max): two and one-half feet.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Must be removed and placed indoors at the close of business
each day.
            2.   Cannot obstruct vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian traffic and
must comply with ADA clearance and accessibility.
            3.   May not be illuminated.
         (d)   Number of signs. Each ground floor tenant can have one sidewalk
sign located adjacent to the primary facade on the sidewalk with the principal
customer entrance or up to eight feet from the facade.
      (10)   Shingle sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-659.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A small projecting sign that hangs from a bracket
or support and is located over or near a property entrance.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area (max): larger than four and less than nine square
feet.
            2.   Height (max): three feet.
            3.   Spacing from building facade (max): one foot.
            4.   Projection width (max): three feet.
            5.   Depth (max): six inches.
            6.   Clear height above sidewalk (min): ten feet in commercial
districts.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Must be located within five feet of an accessible building
entrance in commercial districts.
            2.   Must be located below the window sill of the second story on a
multi-story building or below the roof line of a single story building.
            3.   May not be illuminated.
         (d)   Number of signs. A maximum of one projecting sign or shingle
sign for each individual building or tenant of each individual building or for
each public/private street or parking area frontage side of an individual
building.
      (11)   Subdivision sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-661.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. A permanently affixed sign which is wholly
independent of a building for support attached along its entire width to a
continuous pedestal or wall that is used to identify the entry to or name of an
entire development.
         (b)   Sign dimensions.
            1.   Sign area (max): 32 square feet (sign face).
            2.   Height (max): eight feet (sign face).
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Must be set back at least ten feet from the front property
line and 15 feet from the side property line.
            2.   Must not impair vision or line of sight for incoming or
outgoing traffic.
         (d)   Number of signs. Two subdivision signs are allowed per street
frontage, one on each side of an entrance street into a subdivision.
      (12)   Wall sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-663.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. Means any attached sign other than a projecting
sign or a banner sign, which is permanently attached to or painted on any wall
of any building and projects from the plane of the wall less than 12 inches.
         (b)   Sign dimensions. Sign area: a maximum of 15% of the square
footage of the building’s wall area facing a public/private street, drive or
parking area.
         (c)   Regulations.
            1.   Must be no higher than the highest point of the second floor
of the building.
            2.   Must not extend above the roof line or above a parapet wall of
a building with a flat roof.
            3.   May not cover architectural detail.
            4.   May not extend above the lower eave line of a building with a
pitched roof.
         (d)   Number of signs.
            1.   While there is no set restriction on the maximum number of
signs allowed, multi-tenancy buildings must consider that the percentage of
wall area must be divided between multiple tenants (if a building has multi-
tenancy occupancy).
            2.   In no event shall the sign area for available frontage used by
multiple tenants exceed the maximum sign area set forth in this section.
         (e)   Total sign area allocation. The combined square footage of
awning, canopy, crown, projection and wall signs shall not exceed 20% of the
total square footage of the wall area of that side of the building, not to
exceed a maximum total amount of 800 square feet per wall.
      (13)   Window sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-665.gif]
 
         (a)   Description. An attached sign that is not a temporary sign and
which is attached to, painted on, etched or otherwise adhered to a window or
which is displayed within 12 inches of the window and is legible from outside
the window.
         (b)   Regulations.
            1.   No permit required.
            2.   Limited to 35% of window area.
         (c)   Number of signs. No restrictions.
   (D)   Sign regulations enacted for overlay districts within the city shall
supersede this code to the extent that such regulations conflict.
   (E)   No sign shall be erected or maintained which, by use of lights or
illumination, creates a distracting or hazardous condition to a motorist,
pedestrian or the general public. In addition:
      (1)   Illumination is restricted to incandescent or LED light bulbs rated
at 150 watts, or an amount not to exceed 2,700 lumens.
      (2)   Internal illumination. Internally illuminated signs must be lit
from a concealed source. No exposed lamps or tubes shall be permitted. The
minimum depth for illuminated signs shall be four inches. Illuminated signs may
be set out from the mounting surface in order to create a silhouette effect.
      (3)   External illumination. Signs may be externally illuminated as
provided herein, but external illumination must direct light at the sign only
and avoid spill-over of light.
   (F)   Manual and electronic changeable copy on monument signs shall be
permitted provided that the manual or changeable copy does not exceed 40% of
the sign area and the copy rotation may not exceed three times per day.
   (G)   Applications for a sign permit must be processed through the Building
Official.
   (H)   (1)   A non-conforming sign cannot be replaced by another non-
conforming sign, including face material; except that, the substitution or
interchange of poster panels or painted boards on a non-conforming sign is
permitted. All non-conforming signs must be maintained in a safe manner and in
good repair.
      (2)   Minor repairs and maintenance of non-conforming signs is permitted.
However, no structural repairs, structural changes or changes in the size,
shape or technology currently being used on the sign is permitted, except to
bring the sign out of its non-conforming condition and into compliance with the
requirements of this code.
      (3)   Non-conforming signs may stay in place until one of the following
conditions occurs:
         (a)   The business advertised ceases at that location; except that,
the substitution or interchange of poster panels or painted boards is
permitted;
         (b)   The deterioration of the sign makes it a hazard; or
         (c)   The sign has damage exceeding 50% of its replacement cost.
   (I)   Any non-conforming sign which is altered, relocated, replaced in a
manner not specifically covered in division (H) above must be brought
immediately into compliance with all provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.184 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Severability clause. Should any section or provision of this
subchapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that
decision shall not affect the validity of the subchapter as a whole or any part
thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.
   (B)   Substitution clause. These regulations are not intended to regulate
the message or content of non- commercial signs or temporary signs. A sign with
a non-commercial message may substitute a sign with a commercial message;
provided, it meets all requirements of this code.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, these regulations shall be
enforced by the Building Official(s) appointed or designated by the Mayor. It
shall be a violation of these regulations for any person to erect, alter, move
or improve any sign until an appropriate sign permit has been obtained under
these regulations. Code Enforcement Officer(s), or other designated persons,
may remove temporary signs that are in violation of these regulations,
including, but not limited to, signs which have been improperly placed in the
city right-of-way.
      (2)   (a)   If the Building Official or designee shall find that any sign
is unsafe or insecure, is abandoned or maintained in a dilapidated condition or
has been constructed or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of
the regulations or any other ordinance of the city, the Building Official or
designee shall give written notice of the violation or problem to the sign
permittee or owner of the property on which the sign is located.
         (b)   The notice shall require removal of the sign and/or structure
within seven days. If the permittee or owner fails to remove or alter the sign
so as to comply with the standards set forth in these regulations seven days
from the receipt of said notice, the city may remove or alter such sign to
comply with this municipal code. All expense incidental to such removal or
alteration shall be charged to the owner of the property upon which the sign is
or was located and shall constitute a lien upon the property.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided, a violation of this subchapter shall
be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as set forth in §
152.999 of this chapter. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation of these regulations or the city municipal code.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 152.195 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose. Parking and off-street parking and loading requirements
stated in this section and throughout this chapter reflect the need to provide
necessary vehicular space in orderly and aesthetically pleasing manner to
reduce congestion on city streets and to minimize the impact on adjacent land
uses.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   General. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in
accordance with the regulations of this section for all new development (any
rebuilt structure shall be considered a new development), and for any existing
development that is altered in a way that enlarges or increases capacity by
adding or creating dwelling units, guestrooms, floor area or seats.
      (2)   Parking and loading schedules.
         (a)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
following off-street parking Schedule A.
         (b)   The number of parking spaces required for a use not listed shall
be the same as that of a similarly listed use. When the required number cannot
be determined by the Planning Official, the question should be submitted to the
Planning Commission. Such determination shall be appealable to the full City
Council.
Off-Street Parking Schedule A
 Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Off-Street Parking Schedule A
                                          Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking
                                          Spaces Required
CIVIC AND COMMERCIAL USES
   Animal care, general                1 per 400 square feet
   Auditorium, arena, theater          1 for each 4 seats, based on maximum
                                          capacity
   Bank or financial institution       1 per 300 square feet
   Bed and breakfast                   2 per building, plus 1 per guest room
   Church                              1 for each 4 seats in the sanctuary
   College or university               1 per 300 square feet, or 1 for each
                                          2 students, whichever is greater
   Communication tower                 1 space (plus office space, if on
                                          site)
   Construction sales and service      1 per 500 square feet
   Convenience store                   1 per 200 square feet
   Day care, limited or general        1 per employee and/or attendant, plus
                                          2 spaces
   Funeral home                        1 for each 4 chapel seats, plus 1 per
                                          employee
   Government service                  1 per 300 square feet
   Hospital                            1 for each bed
   Hotel or motel                      1 per guest room, plus 1 per 10 guest
                                          rooms
   Library                             1 per 500 square feet
   Medical service                     6 per doctor or dentist
   Museum                              1 per 500 square feet
   Office, general                     1 per 300 square feet
   Recreation/entertainment, indoor    1 per 400 square feet
   Recreational vehicle park           1 per camping space
                                          1 per 150 square feet for first 2,500
   Restaurant, general                 square feet, plus 1 per 100 square
                                          feet over 2,500 square feet
   Retail/service, general             1 per 250 square feet
   Retail/service, furniture and bulky 1 per 500 square feet
items
                                          1 per staff and employee, plus 1
   School, all                         space per classroom
                                          1 for each 3 students, plus 1.5 per
                                          classroom
                                          2 per dwelling/unit, or 1 space per
                                          bedroom, whichever is greater; 2
                                          spaces may be within a garage/carport
   Short-term rentals                  structure (attached or detached), and
                                          the other two spaces may be within
                                          the driveway. Minimum driveway length
                                          shall be 25 feet measured from the
                                          street right-of-way
   Service station                     2 per service bay, plus 1 per pump
   Vehicle and equipment sales         1 per 500 square feet
   Vehicle repair, general or limited  5 per service bay
   Vocational school                   1 per 3 students, plus 1 per faculty
                                          member
                                          1 for each 5 storage bays, or 1 per
   Warehouse, residential (mini) storag1,000 square feet, whichever is
                                          greater
INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING USES
                                          *1 per 1,000 square feet or 1 per
   Asphalt or concrete plant           employee, whichever is greater;
                                          spaces to be provided pursuant to
                                          Schedule B
   Auto wrecking or salvage yard       Spaces to be provided pursuant to
                                          Schedule B
   Manufacturing, general              Spaces to be provided pursuant to
                                          Schedule B
   Manufacturing, limited              Spaces to be provided pursuant to
                                          Schedule B
   Warehousing                         Spaces to be provided pursuant to
                                          Schedule B
   Welding or machine shop             Spaces to be provided pursuant to
                                          schedule B
RESIDENTIAL USES
   Duplex                              2 per dwelling unit
                                          1.25 per efficiency unit
   Multi-family                        1.75 per 1-bedroom unit
                                          2.25 per 2-bedroom unit
   Manufactured housing (all)          2 per dwelling unit
   Manufactured housing park           2 per unit, plus 1 for each 10 units
                                          4 per dwelling/unit; 2 spaces may be
                                          within a garage/carport structure
                                          (attached or detached), and the other
                                          two spaces may be within the
                                          driveway. Minimum driveway length
   Single-family detached              shall be 25 feet measured from the
                                          street right-of-way. Construction of
                                          an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) does
                                          not require additional parking beyond
                                          that required of the primary single-
                                          family detached home
   Zero lot line single-family         2 per dwelling unit
 
      (c)   Off-street loading space shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum standards:
Off-Street Loading Schedule B
Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Off-Street Loading Spaces Requirement
Off-Street Loading Schedule B
Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Off-Street Loading Spaces Requirement
OFFICE, NURSING HOME, HOSPITAL, HOTELS AND INSTITUTIONS
100,001 to 335,000       2
335,001 to 625,000       3
625,001 to 945,000       4
945,001 or more          5, plus 1 per 500,000 square feet above 945,001
RETAIL AND SERVICE, WAREHOUSE, WHOLESALE AND MANUFACTURING USES
3,000 to 25,000          1
25,001 to 85,000         2
85,001 to 155,000        3
155,001 to 235,000       4
235,001 to 325,000       5
325,001 to 425,000       6
425,001 to 535,000       7
535,001 to 655,000       8
655,001 to 775,000       9
775,001 to 925,000       10
925,001 or more          10, plus 1 per 200,000 square feet above 925,001
 
      (3)   Computing off-street parking and loading requirements.
         (a)   Multiple uses. Lots containing more than one use shall provide
parking and loading in an amount equal to the total of the requirements for all
uses.
         (b)   Fractions. When measurements of the number of required spaces
result in fractions, any fraction of one-half or less shall be disregarded and
any fraction of more than one-half shall be rounded upward to the next highest
whole number.
         (c)   Area. Unless otherwise noted in these provisions, all square
footage-based parking and loading standards shall be computed on the basis of
gross floor area.
         (d)   Employees, students and occupant-based standards. For the
purpose of computing parking requirements based on the number of employees,
students, residents, or occupants, calculations shall be based on the largest
number of persons working on any single shift, the maximum enrollment or the
maximum fire-rated capacity, whichever is applicable and whichever results in
the greater number of spaces.
         (e)   Americans with Disabilities Act requirements (ADA). Pursuant to
federal ADA standards, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., a portion of the total
number of required off-street parking spaces in each off-street parking area
shall be specifically designated, located and reserved for use by person with
physical disabilities. Responsibility for compliance with ADA, in all respects,
shall rest with the applicant.
      (4)   Location and design of off-street parking and loading spaces.
         (a)   On-site. Except as otherwise specifically provided, required
off-street parking and loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use.
         (b)   Right-of-way. Required off-street parking must be provided
within a setback and must not interfere with any public right-of-way or
interfere with any abutting public street.
         (c)   Setbacks. Where parking is to be provided in the street of a
multi-family dwelling, there shall be established a parking setback line of ten
feet. The area between the parking setback line and front shall be prepared and
planted in manner consistent with other landscaping and protected by an
interior curb.
         (d)   Ingress and egress. Off street parking and loading spaces shall
be designed to permit exiting vehicles to enter the public right-of-way in a
forward motion. No off-street parking shall be allowed that requires vehicles
to back onto a public right-of-way excepting single-family and duplex residents
on local or collector streets.
         (e)   Surfacing. All required off-street parking and loading spaces,
and the driveways serving off-street parking and loading spaces, shall be paved
with asphalt, concrete or brick, a minimum of 100 feet from the street frontage
right-of-way. Areas designated for display of items for sale (e.g., vehicles,
tractors, implements, ATVs, RVs and the like) will not be required to adhere to
this requirement. Residential driveways, not in a platted subdivision shall be
required to pave with asphalt, concrete or brick, the portion of driveway from
the edge of the street pavement to the property line or the right-of-way
according to the Master Street Plan, whichever is greater.
         (f)   Drainage. All off-street parking and loading areas shall be
designed with drainage facilities adequate to dispose of all storm water and to
not increase the storm water runoff onto the surface of adjoining properties or
streets
         (g)   Curbing. The perimeter of all off-street parking and loading
areas and their access drives shall be curbed, with the exception of single-
family and duplex residences. Landscape islands and other interior features
within parking lots shall also be protected by curbs. In addition, the
principal building on the lot shall be protected by curbs and/or raised
walkways. Rollover curbs shall not be permitted, and wheel-stops are expressly
prohibited as alternatives to meeting curbing requirements. The area between
the curb and the property line, except for the driveway(s), shall be maintained
as green space.
         (h)   Striping. Off-street parking areas containing five or more
spaces shall have parking spaces delineated by pavement striping.
         (i)   Parking space dimensions for residential subdivision. Off-street
parking spaces located outside of a garage/carport structure shall contain a
minimum area of at least 225 square feet per parking space, with a minimum
width of nine feet and a minimum length of 25 feet, measured from the street
right-of-way.
         (j)   Loading space dimensions. Off-street loading spaces shall be a
minimum of 14 feet by 45 feet in size, with a minimum height clearance of 18
feet.
         (k)   Aisle dimensions. Drive aisles within off-street parking lots
shall comply with the following minimum width requirements:
 
Parking Angle One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle
90 degrees    24 feet       24 feet
60 degrees    18 feet       24 feet
45 degrees    16 feet       24 feet
30 degrees    13 feet       24 feet
 
         (l)   Use of off-street parking and loading spaces. Required off-
street parking spaces shall be used solely for the parking of licensed motor
vehicles in operating condition and shall not be used for temporary storage.
      (5)   Off-site parking spaces. Required off-street parking shall be
located on the same lot as the use it is intended to serve; provided that, a
portion, not to exceed 25%, of the required off- street parking spaces may be
located on a remote and separate lot from the lot on which the principal use is
located, if the off-site parking complies with the following standards.
         (a)   Ineligible activities. Off-site parking shall not be used to
satisfy the off-street parking standards for residential uses, restaurants,
convenience stores or other convenience-oriented uses.
         (b)   Location. No off-site parking area shall be located more than 80
feet from the required parking lot of the use served, unless a shuttle service
is provided. Distance shall be measured along the shortest legal, practical
walking route.
         (c)   Zoning classification. Off-site parking areas shall require the
same or a more intensive zoning classification than that required for the use
served.
         (d)   Agreement for off-site parking. In the event that an off-site
parking area is not under the same ownership as the principal use served, a
written agreement shall be required. An attested copy of the agreement between
the owners of record shall be submitted to the Planning Official for recording
with the city. In addition, whether under the same ownership or not, a legal
document, such as a deed restriction, to prevent development of the off-site
parking area shall be executed and recorded with the city and the County Clerk.
Recording of the agreement(s) and restrictive document(s) shall take place
before any conditional use permit is granted and issuance of a building permit
for any use to be served by the off-site parking area; or in the case of an
existing building, prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (6)   Shared parking. The Planning Official, subject to appeal to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment, may authorize a reduction in the number of required
parking spaces for multiple use developments, and for uses that are located
near one another that have different peak parking demands and operating hours.
Shared parking shall be subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Location. Shared off-street parking spaces shall be located no
further than 300 feet from the building and uses they are intended to serve
unless shuttle service is provided.
         (b)   Study. An acceptable parking study provided by the applicant
shall be submitted which clearly establishes that uses will make use of the
shared spaces at different times of the day, week, month or year.
         (c)   Agreement. A shared parking plan shall be enforced through
written agreement. Proof of recording of the agreement shall be presented prior
to issuance of a building permit.
         (d)   Revocation of certificate of occupancy. Failure to comply with
the shared parking provisions of this section shall constitute a violation of
these regulations, and shall specifically be cause for revocation of a
certificate of occupancy.
      (7)   Outdoor parking/storage of boats, trailers and recreational
vehicles. One boat, trailer and/or recreational vehicle may be parked outdoors
on a lot in a residential district; provided that:
         (a)   The boat, trailer or recreational vehicle is owned and used by a
resident of the premises;
         (b)   The boat, trailer or recreational vehicle is not parked in the
area between the front of the residence and the street or other area between
the structure and the street, except for the purpose of loading or unloading
during a period of not more than 24 hours;
         (c)   The boat, trailer and/or recreational vehicle is located in the
side or rear yard;
         (d)   The boat, trailer and/or recreational vehicle is not used for
living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes; exception, recreational vehicles may
be inhabited by visitors to an occupied residence for a period not to exceed
seven days;
         (e)   The boat, trailer or recreational vehicle is currently operable,
registered and licensed, as required by state law;
         (f)   The area must be kept free of weeds and debris; and
         (g)   Recreational vehicles may be inhabited by visitors to a
residence for a period not to exceed seven calendar days.
      (8)   Vehicle stack space for drive-thru facilities. In addition to
meeting the off-street parking requirements of the section, establishments with
drive-thru facilities shall comply with the following minimum vehicle stack
space standards.
         (a)   Stack space schedule.
 
Automatic car washes  50 feet as measured from the entrance
Banks                 70 feet as measured from the teller drop
Fast-food restaurants 110 feet as measured from the order station
Other uses            30 feet as measured from the pick-up window
 
         (b)   Design and layout. Vehicle stack spaces shall be subject to the
following design and layout standards.
            1.   Stack spaces shall be designed so as not to impede pedestrian
access to the building, on and off-site traffic movements, or movements into or
out of parking spaces.
            2.   Stack space lanes shall be a minimum of eight feet wide, and
shall be separated from other internal driveways with painted lines or curbing.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.196 DRIVEWAYS AND ACCESS; MULTI-FAMILY AND NON-RESIDENTIAL USES.
   The following standards shall apply to all driveways providing access to
multi-family and non- residential uses.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Access to property shall be allowed only by way of driveways, and
no other portion of the lot frontage shall be used for ingress or egress.
Continuous curb cuts are prohibited.
      (2)   Driveway design shall be such that minimization of interference
with through street traffic is achieved, and shall be subject to site plan
approval. The types of vehicles that a driveway is intended to serve shall be a
prime factor in determining the acceptable radii of driveways.
      (3)   Provisions for circulation between adjacent parcels should be
provided through a coordinated or joint parking system.
   (B)   Driveway spacing; main/primary streets. Direct access to any main/
primary street shall be limited to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Spacing from signalized intersections. All driveways providing
access to main/primary streets shall be constructed so that the point of
tangency of the curb return radius closest to a signalized or stop sign-
controlled intersection, is at least 120 feet from the perpendicular curb face
of the intersecting street. In the event that this standard cannot be met
because of an unusually narrow or shallow lot size, a reduction in spacing may
be approved as long as the reduction does not result in an unsafe traffic
condition.
      (2)   Spacing from other (non-signalized) access points. All driveways
providing access to main/primary streets shall be constructed so that the point
of tangency of the curb return radius closest to any non-signalized street or
driveway intersection, is at least 80 feet from the perpendicular curb face of
the intersecting street or driveway. In the event that this standard cannot be
met because of an unusually narrow or shallow lot size, a reduction in spacing
may be approved as long as the reduction does not result in an unsafe traffic
condition.
   (C)   Feeder/collector streets. Direct access to feeder/collector streets
shall be regulated in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Spacing from signalized intersections. All driveways providing
access to feeder/collector streets shall be constructed so that the point of
tangency of the curb return radius closest to a signalized or stop sign-
controlled intersection, is at least 120 feet from the perpendicular curb face
of an intersecting feeder/collector street and 80 feet from the perpendicular
curb face of an intersecting feeder/collector or local street. In the event
that this standard cannot be met because of an unusually narrow or shallow lot
size, a reduction in spacing may be approved as long as the reduction does not
result in an unsafe traffic condition.
      (2)   Spacing from other (non-signalized) access points. All driveways
providing access to feeder/collector streets shall be constructed so that the
point of tangency of the curb return radius closest to a non-signalized street
or driveway intersection, is at least 80 feet from the perpendicular curb face
of the intersecting street or driveway. In the event that this standard cannot
be met because of an unusually narrow or shallow lot size, a reduction in
spacing may be approved as long as the reduction does not result in an unsafe
traffic condition.
   (D)   Driveways per parcel.
      (1)   At least one driveway shall be permitted for any lot. Shared
driveways shall be recommended for lots that have less than 120 feet of
frontage.
      (2)   Individual driveways shall be located a minimum of ten feet from
the side property lines. A separation of at least 20 feet is required between
the driveways on one lot and the driveways on the adjacent lots. Driveways on
the same lot shall be no closer than 50 feet to each other.
      (3)   Driveways on corner lots shall be located as far away from the
intersection as possible. In no case shall a driveway be installed closer than
five feet to the beginning of the curb radius.
   (E)   Ingress/egress driveway width. The width of the driveway throat shall
not exceed 40 feet in width. Driveway lanes shall be a minimum of 13 feet in
width and shall not have more than three lanes in one entrance/exit.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.197 CORNER VISIBILITY; SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   On corner lots at intersecting two-way streets, nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede
vision between a height of two feet and ten feet above the centerline grade of
the intersecting street within the triangular area formed by an imaginary line
that follows street side right-of-way property lines, and a line connecting
them, 25 feet from their point of intersection. This sight triangle standard
may be increased by the city in those instances deemed necessary for promoting
traffic safety, and may be lessened at intersections involving one-way streets.
Graphic illustration of this requirement is provided below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-668.gif]
 
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.198 RESIDENTIAL COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS.
   The compatibility standards of this section are intended to protect low
density residential uses and neighborhoods from the adverse impacts sometimes
associated with higher density residential uses and non-residential
development. The standards are intended to mitigate the effects of uses with
operating and structural characteristics that are vastly different than those
associated with single-family uses.
   (A)   Applicability (triggering property). Compatibility standards shall
apply to all development in the C-1 and C-2 Zoning Districts when such
development is adjacent to a “triggering property”, which shall include all of
the following:
      (1)   Property occupied by a single-family dwelling unit that is a use
permitted by-right in the zoning district in which it is located; or
      (2)   Property zoned in an R-1, R-2 or R-1M District.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the above applicability provisions, compatibility
standards shall not be triggered by property that is public right-of-way,
roadway or utility easement.
      (2)   The following uses and activities shall specifically be exempt from
compliance with compatibility standards:
         (a)   Construction of a use permitted by-right in an R-1, R-2 or R-1M
District;
         (b)   Structural alteration of an existing building when such
alteration does not increase the building’s square footage or height, or result
in an increase in noise, hours of operation or other factors which would impact
surrounding properties; and
         (c)   A change in use that does not increase the minimum number of
off-street parking spaces required.
      (3)   The following setback standards shall apply to all development that
is subject to compatibility standards.
         (a)   Stories. Within 30 feet of the property line, if a building
exceeds the height of two stories, the portion of the building that exceeds two
stories shall have an additional ten-foot setback from the boundary line of an
adjacent “triggering property” for each story above the second story.
         (b)   Small sites. On sites with 20,000 square feet of area or less
that also have less than 200 feet of street frontage, structures shall be set
back from the lot line of triggering property one and one-half times the
required setback.
         (c)   Large sites. On sites with more than 20,000 square feet of area
or 200 feet of street frontage or more, structure shall be set back from the
lot line of triggering property a minimum distance equal to twice the required
setback for the zone in which the structure is to be located.
         (d)   Surface-level parking and driveways. Surface-level off-street
parking areas and driveways shall not be subject to the above setback
standards; however, such standards shall apply to parking structures. Surface-
level parking areas shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from the lot line of
triggering property.
      (4)   All requirements found in this code shall apply. Additionally:
         (a)   Decorative walls, vegetative screening, fencing or earthen berms
shall be provided to completely screen off-street parking areas, mechanical
equipment, storage areas and refuse collection areas from view of triggering
property; and
         (b)   The required perimeter buffer shall increase from the five feet
required herein to ten feet wide when adjacent to a triggering property.
      (5)   The following additional site design standards shall apply to
development that is subject to the compatibility standards of this section.
         (a)   No swimming pool, tennis court, ballfield or playground area
(except those that are accessory to a single-family dwelling unit) shall be
permitted within 50 feet of the lot line of triggering property.
         (b)   Dumpsters and refuse receptacles shall be located a minimum of
25 feet from the lot line of triggering property.
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall be designed and located to minimize
light spilling onto surrounding property.
   (C)   Applicability (triggering property). Compatibility standards shall
apply to all development in the R-3, C-3, C-4, I-L and I-M Zoning Districts
when such development is adjacent to a “triggering property”, which shall
include all of the following:
      (1)   Property occupied by a single-family dwelling unit that is a use
permitted by-right in the zoning district in which it is located; or
      (2)   Property zoned in an R-1, R-2 or R-1M District.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the above applicability provisions, compatibility
standards shall not be triggered by property that is public right-of-way,
roadway or utility easement.
      (2)   The following uses and activities shall specifically be exempt from
compliance with compatibility standards:
         (a)   Construction of a use permitted by-right in an R-1, R-2 or R-1M
District;
         (b)   Structural alteration of an existing building when such
alteration does not increase the building’s square footage or height, or result
in an increase in noise, hours of operation or other factors which would impact
surrounding properties; and
         (c)   A change in use that does not increase the minimum number of
off-street parking spaces required.
      (3)   The following setback standards shall apply to all development that
is subject to compatibility standards.
         (a)   Stories. Within 50 feet of the property line, if a building
exceeds the height of two stories, the portion of the building that exceeds two
stories shall have an additional 15-foot setback from the boundary line of an
adjacent “triggering property” for each story above the second story.
         (b)   Small sites. On sites with 20,000 square feet of area or less
that also have less than 200 feet of street frontage, structures shall be set
back from the lot line of triggering property one and one-half times the
required setback.
         (c)   Large sites. On sites with more than 20,000 square feet of area
or 200 feet of street frontage or more, structure shall be set back from the
lot line of triggering property a minimum distance equal to twice the required
setback for the zone in which the structure is to be located.
         (d)   Surface-level parking and driveways. Surface-level off-street
parking areas and driveways shall not be subject to the above setback
standards; however, such standards shall apply to parking structures. Surface-
level parking areas shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from the lot line of
triggering property.
      (4)   No structure shall exceed two stories in height within 50 feet from
the lot line of triggering property.
      (5)   All requirements found herein shall apply. Additionally:
         (a)   Decorative walls, vegetative screening, fencing or earthen berms
shall be provided to completely screen off-street parking areas, mechanical
equipment, storage areas and refuse collection areas from view of triggering
property; and
         (b)   The required perimeter buffer shall increase from the five feet
required herein to 20 feet wide when adjacent to a triggering property.
      (6)   The following additional site design standards shall apply to
development that is subject to the compatibility standards of this section.
         (a)   No swimming pool, tennis court, ballfield or playground area
(except those that are accessory to a single-family dwelling unit) shall be
permitted within 50 feet of the lot line of triggering property.
         (b)   Dumpsters and refuse receptacles shall be located a minimum of
25 feet from the lot line of triggering property.
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall be designed and located to minimize
light spilling onto surrounding property.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.199 FENCES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes and regulations of
the city, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of all
fences.
   (A)   Maximum height. Fences shall not exceed eight feet in height, unless
approved by the city’s Planning Commission. Fencing in I Districts, and around
tennis courts and other recreational amenities, shall be exempt from this
height limit.
   (B)   Corner visibility. Fences shall comply with the corner visibility
standards of §
152.197 of this chapter.
   (C)   Construction/materials. Fences in all residential zoning districts
shall be constructed so that the horizontal and vertical support posts are
inside the fenced area or hidden from view of those outside the fenced area.
This requirement shall not apply to fences that abut non-residential zoning
districts or in situations where the owner of the lot adjacent to the fence
agrees to a plan for placing support posts on the “outside” of the fence. All
exposed steel, except galvanized metal, shall have a color finish coat applied
to them and be preserved against rust and corrosion.
   (D)   Design and maintenance. All fences shall be maintained in their
original upright condition. Fences designed to be painted or have other surface
finishes shall be maintained in their original condition as designed. Missing
boards, pickets or posts shall be replaced in a timely manner with material of
the same type and quality.
   (E)   Prohibited. Barbed wire and electrified fences shall be prohibited on
all lots of less than one acres in area.
   (F)   Front yard. Unless approved by the city’s Planning Commission, a fence
over 36 inches in height shall not be located in the front yard or be
positioned any closer to the front property line than the front surface of the
building for a typical residential lot. Decorative fencing not exceeding 36
inches is allowed in front yards.
   (G)   Pools and spas. Refer to International Building Code, Swimming Pool
Enclosures and Safety Devices.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.200 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Multi-family and commercial development. Sidewalks shall be required
for all multi-family developments that contain five units or more. Sidewalks
may be required through the site plan approval process for commercial
developments.
   (B)   Construction standards.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable
city standards and specifications and with all applicable ADA (Americans with
Disabilities Act), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., requirements. Sidewalks
must be setback at least five feet from the back of the curb or pavement and
such sidewalks shall have a minimum width of five feet.
      (2)   This specification shall be the city’s standard requirement;
provided, however, that, under unique circumstances, exceptions may be made
through site plan approval, for a sidewalk to be attached to the curb or be
located closer than five feet to the curb.
   (C)   Timing of installation. Required sidewalks shall be installed prior to
occupancy of any structure.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.201 STREET FRONTAGE, ACCESS EASEMENT.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in §
152.076 of this chapter, each lot in R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts shall have a
minimum street, or dedicated access easement frontage of 50 feet, except for
lots fronting on cul-de-sac turnarounds and on curving street frontages, which
must have not less than 35 feet of street frontage with the two side lot lines
intersecting the street diverging until they are separated by the minimum
required lot width at the building line. Each lot in the remaining zoning
districts shall have a minimum of 35 feet of street, or dedicated access
easement frontage. The city’s Planning Commission may allow variances where
topography does not allow for the full setback.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or other business entity who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or fail to comply thereafter
with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall build, alter, move or occupy
any building, structure or sign, in violation of any detailed permit, statement
or plans submitted and approved hereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or double such
sum for each repetition thereof, together with all court costs and other costs
of prosecution. If the violation is, in its nature, continuous in respect to
time, the penalty for allowing the continuance thereof is a fine not to exceed
$250 for each day that the same is unlawfully continued, together with all
court costs and other costs of prosecution. Each day during which any such
violation continues, after the posting of any “stop construction notice”, or
any similar purposed notice; such as “cease and desist notice”; any of which
are signed by the city’s Building Inspector, Planning and Zoning Official or
City Code Enforcement Officer, shall be a separate offense. The owner or owners
of any building or premises or part thereof where anything in violation of
these regulations shall be placed, or shall exist, and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, engineer, person, firm or corporation employed in connection
therewith, and who may have assisted in the commission of any such violation,
shall be guilty of a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as herein above provided.
   (B)   Violations of these regulations that are continuous with respect to
time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable
relief. The imposition of a penalty, however, does not prevent the simultaneous
granting of equitable relief in appropriate cases.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
CHAPTER 153: DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Jurisdiction
   
153.005   Planning area map
   
153.006   Applicability
   
153.007   Exemptions
   
153.008   Approval required
   
153.009   Amendments
   
153.010   Severability
   
153.011   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.012   Non-liability
   
153.013   Definitions
   
153.014   Responsibilities of developer/owner
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.025   Administration
   
153.026   Waivers
   
153.027   Vacations
   
153.028   Appeals
   
153.029   Assurance of performance
   
153.030   Guarantees
   
153.031   Enforcement
Preliminary Plats
   
153.045   Applicability
   
153.046   Pre-application conference
   
153.047   Application for approval
   
153.048   Review and approval
   
153.049   Review criteria
   
153.050   Authorization to proceed
   
153.051   Expiration of preliminary plat approval
Final Plats
   
153.065   Applicability
   
153.066   Application for final plat
   
153.067   Prior to Planning Commission
   
153.068   Review and approval
   
153.069   Inspections
   
153.070   Recording
   
153.071   Application for building permit
   
153.072   Criteria for substantial completion (non-bondable items)
   
153.073   Criteria for guarantees (bondable items)
Incidental Subdivisions
   
153.085   Applicability
   
153.086   Application for approval
   
153.087   Review and approval
   
153.088   Recording
   
153.089   Review criteria
Supplemental Provisions
   
153.100   Plat and plan requirements
   
153.101   Minimum survey standards
Design Standards
   
153.115   Generally
   
153.116   Utilities
   
153.117   Blocks
   
153.118   Lots
   
153.119   Streets
   
153.120   Grading and drainage
   
153.121   Open space
   
153.122   Driveway design
   
153.123   Outdoor lighting
   
153.124   Wireless communication facilities (WCF)
Addressing
   
153.135   Purpose
   
153.136   Address numbers
   
153.137   Signs, numbers and system maintenance
 
   
153.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall officially be known, cited and referred to as the
“Development and Subdivision Regulations of the City of Holiday Island,
Arkansas”, hereinafter referred to as “these regulations” or “this chapter”,
and shall apply to the areas outlined on the Official Planning Area Map of the
city (as adopted and recorded at the office of the County Circuit Clerk in its
most recent version).
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These regulations govern the subdividing and developing of land within
the corporate limits and the planning area boundary, herein after referred to
as “the planning area”, within the territorial jurisdiction of the city, and
are adopted in accordance with the provisions of A.C.A. §§ 14-56-401 through
14-56-426.
   (B)   By authority of the ordinance establishing the Planning Commission,
adopted pursuant to the powers and jurisdictions vested through applicable
state statutes, the Planning Commission does hereby exercise the power and
authority to review, approve and disapprove plats for the subdivision of land
within the planning area jurisdiction which shows lots, blocks or sites with or
without new streets.
   (C)   By the same authority, the Planning Commission does hereby exercise
the power and authority to pass and approve the development of platted
subdivisions of land already recorded in the office of the County Circuit
Clerk, if such plats are already platted and undeveloped, with no improvements.
   (D)   The plat shall be considered to be entirely or partially undeveloped,
if:
      (1)   Such plat has been recorded with the County Circuit Clerk’s office
after the effective date of these regulations without a prior approval by the
Planning Commission; and
      (2)   Such plat has been approved by the Planning Commission where the
approval has been granted:
         (a)   More than three years prior to the granting of a building permit
on the partially or entirely undeveloped land; and
         (b)   The zoning ordinance, either bulk or use, for the district in
which the subdivision is located, has been changed subsequent to the original
final approval.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   These regulations are formulated to promote safety, public health and
the general welfare of the citizens of the city and its planning area.
   (B)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the harmonious
development of the city and the coordination of streets and other public
utility improvements within subdivisions with existing or planned improvements
or other features of the all adopted plans of the city, including the Master
Street Plan and the Land Use Plan. The Holiday Island Suburban Improvement
District (HISID) will be notified and participate, to the extent necessary, in
the infrastructure plans as they may apply at the time of considering plats and
proposed improvements to property.
   (C)   These regulations and standards for the subdivision and improvement of
land for urban use are designed to make provision for adequate air, open space,
drainage, transportation, public utilities and other needs, and to ensure the
development and maintenance of a healthy, attractive and efficient community
that provides for the conservation and protection of its human and natural
resources.
   (D)   These regulations are intended to set forth the procedures,
requirements and minimum standards governing the subdivision of land within the
planning area of the city and should be administered in a manner:
      (1)   To assist the orderly, efficient and coordinated development of
land within the planning area of the city in accord with its adopted Land Use
Plan, Master Street Plan and Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
of the city;
      (3)   To ensure conformance of subdivision plans with public improvement
plans for the city and its environs;
      (4)   To protect and conserve the value of land, buildings and
improvements and to minimize adverse impact on adjoining or nearby properties;
      (5)   To establish a beneficial relationship between the uses of land and
buildings and the municipal street system, to require proper location and
design of streets and building lines, to minimize traffic congestion and to
make adequate provision for pedestrian traffic circulation;
      (6)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivision and re-subdivision to further the orderly development and use of
land and to ensure proper standards and requirements for legal descriptions and
monumentation of subdivided lands as prescribed by §
153.101 of this chapter;
      (7)   To encourage the wise use and management of natural resources and
to provide adequate and safe recreational areas of natural beauty and
topography within the community;
      (8)   To provide for adequate provisions for transportation, water, fire
protection, sanitary sewer, drainage and other public requirements;
      (9)   To provide for proper ingress, egress and street connectivity to
properties and neighborhoods;
      (10)   To guide the future growth and development of the city in
accordance with the Land Use Plan and the Master Street Plan;
      (11)   To assist orderly, efficient and integrated development within the
city’s planning area;
      (12)   To promote sound development through utilization of good design
principles;
      (13)   To facilitate the further re-subdivision of large tracts into
smaller parcels or replating existing subdivisions; and
      (14)   To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
uniform procedures and standards for observance both by developers and the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable to all lands within the city and its
planning area. The planning area includes those areas depicted on the planning
area map (latest revision), copies of which are on file with the city’s
Recorder-Treasurer and the County Circuit Clerk, all as provided in A.C.A. §§
14-56-401 through 14-56-426.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.005 PLANNING AREA MAP.
   (A)   Included as part of this regulation by reference is the map titled
“Holiday Island Planning Area Map”, which delineates the planning area
boundary. Within the planning area, the city shall plan and apply subdivision
and development regulations.
   (B)   The map includes the corporate city limits and that area outside the
city limits in which the city will exercise its authority under A.C.A. §§ 14-
56-401 et seq. The planning boundary was reviewed by the City of Eureka Springs
and Town of Beaver without objection, adopted by the city’s Planning
Commission, ratified by the City Council and filed for record with the County
Western District Circuit Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.006 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to consider the subdivision of land and
the subsequent development of subdivided plats as subject to the control of the
city pursuant to plans of the city, primarily the Land Use Plan and Master
Street Plan of the city, for orderly planning and efficient development of the
city and the planning area.
   (B)   These regulations and development standards shall apply to the
following forms of land subdivision and development:
      (1)   Subdivision. The division of land into two or more lots;
      (2)   Property line adjustments. A transfer or adjustment of a property
line that does not create a separate, new lot. A property line adjustment may
or may not require dedication of utility easements;
      (3)   Large scale developments. All development, other than single-family
and duplex; or
      (4)   Dedications. The dedication of any street or alley right-of-way,
utility easement, drainage easement or access easement through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.007 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Street widening. These regulations and development standards shall not
apply to the public acquisition by purchase or dedication of parcels of land
for the widening or opening of streets or for other improvements.
   (B)   Horizontal property regime. These regulations and development
standards shall not apply to any horizontal property regime within any lot for
which the same documentation as required by state statute to be filed with the
county for the establishment of that horizontal property regime shall have been
filed with and approved by the city; and where all buildings within that lot
shall have been built to meet the fire separation requirements of the city
between units, as defined in the Horizontal Property Act of the state, A.C.A.
§§ 18-13-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.008 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No subdivider proposing to make or having made a subdivision within the
planning area of the city shall proceed with any construction work on the
proposed subdivision prior to obtaining preliminary plat approval and shall not
convey title to any lot or lots before obtaining from the Planning Commission a
certificate of final plat approval and acceptance and filing of said plat with
the County Circuit Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.009 AMENDMENTS.
   On any proposed amendments to these regulations, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing. Notice of public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City at least one time, not later than
15 days prior to the hearing. Following such hearing, the City Council may
adopt the amendments as recommended by the Planning Commission or, after
further consultation with the Planning Commission, as determined by a majority
vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.010 SEVERABILITY.
   Any clause or provision of these regulations declared invalid or
unconstitutional by the court shall not affect the validity of the regulation
as a whole or any other part of the code thereof. If any court of competent
jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision of these
regulations to a particular subdivision of land, such judgment shall not affect
the application of such provisions to any other subdivision of land, not
specifically included in such judgment.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.011 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION.
   It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair
or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, agreements, rules,
regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to the law;
however, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the provisions of
these regulations shall govern.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.012 NON-LIABILITY.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
the favor of the city and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other power granted by the Arkansas Code Annotated.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.013 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions not expressly prescribed in §
152.007  of this code of ordinances are to be construed in accordance with the
customary usage in municipal planning and engineering practices.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.014 RESPONSIBILITY OF DEVELOPER/OWNER.
   (A)   The developer/owner shall be responsible for installation of streets,
including all design and construction, and for all costs associated therewith.
   (B)   The developer/owner shall provide all engineering services required
for planning, design, investigations, inspection, testing and related
activities necessary for street development, and shall be responsible for
construction of street improvements in accordance with the design approved by
the city as satisfying the requirements of these standards.
   (C)   The developer shall post a letter which:
      (1)   Guarantees that the construction will conform to the plans and
specifications approved by the city;
      (2)   Acknowledges the conditions of the approval; and
      (3)   Agrees to honor those conditions. This letter must be posted prior
to the beginning of construction.
   (D)   The city shall have the right of access to sites during the planning,
design and construction phases of street development. The developer shall
schedule all activities to provide the city with adequate notice and review
time.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 153.025 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   These rules and regulations shall be administered by the Planning
Commission and the city staff. The Commission may, from time to time, recommend
instructions and operating procedures to be followed in the administration of
these regulations to the end that the public may be better informed and that
approval of plats be expedited.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with all other, current and future, applicable rules,
regulations and laws, including, but not limited to, the Land Use Plan, the
Master Street Plan and Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, Building and
Housing Codes and any other regulations adopted by the City Council and any
regulations or special requirements of the state’s Health Department, the
state’s Department of Transportation or other appropriate state agencies.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.026 WAIVERS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   When, by the strict interpretation of these regulations, an
applicant incurs undue restrictions on the physical property to be subdivided,
a waiver for such requirements may be granted by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Under no circumstance should a waiver be granted because of a
personal hardship or for personal or emotional reasons. Waivers shall not be
granted based strictly on financial hardship.
      (3)   A waiver is determined by the strict interpretation and enforcement
of the rules and regulations upon a given piece of property to be subdivided.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   No waiver shall be granted except upon written petition by the
applicant when the application is filed. The petition shall state fully the
grounds for the waiver and all the facts upon which the petition is made.
      (2)   In granting the waiver, the Planning Commission shall prescribe any
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable in the public interest.
      (3)   In considering the petition for a waiver, the Planning Commission
shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land involved,
existing uses of land in the area, proximity to public utilities, the number of
persons who will reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable
effect of such waiver upon traffic conditions and upon the public health,
safety and general welfare in the vicinity.
      (4)   The findings of the Planning Commission, together with the specific
facts upon which findings are based, shall be incorporated into the official
minutes of the Planning Commission meetings at which such waiver is granted and
incorporated into a resolution requiring an affirmative roll-call vote of the
majority of the members of the Planning Commission. Waivers may be granted only
when in harmony with the general purpose and intent of these regulations.
      (5)   No waiver shall be granted unless the Planning Commission finds all
of the following:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
involved such that the strict application of the provision of these regulations
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of this land;
         (b)   The waiver is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant;
         (c)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare or injurious to other property in the area; and
         (d)   The granting of the waiver will not have the effect of
preventing the orderly subdivision of other land in the area in accord with the
provision of these regulations.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.027 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Vacation of plats.
      (1)   Vacation prior to lots being sold. Any plat or any part of a plat
may be vacated by the owner of the premises at any time before the sale of any
lot therein by written instrument to which a copy of such plat shall be
attached declaring the same to be vacated. Vacation of a plat shall be subject
to the approval of the City Council if the plat is located within the corporate
limits. It will be subject to County Quorum Court approval if located outside
the corporate limits, but within the planning area.
      (2)   Approval by Planning Commission. Such an instrument shall be
approved by the Planning Commission with the same plat submission requirements,
review processes and fees as are required for plats of subdivisions. Between
the preliminary plat and the final plat, the Planning Commission will be
afforded the opportunity for review and may reject any such plat that destroys
public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
      (3)   Filing and recording.
         (a)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved
and recorded or filed in like manner as plats of subdivisions.
         (b)   Being duly recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force
and effect of the recording of the original plat so vacated and to divest all
public rights in the streets, alleys and public grounds and all dedications
laid out or described in such plat.
      (4)   Vacation, after lots are sold. When lots have been sold, the plat
may be vacated in a manner herein provided by all the owners of lots in such
plat joining in the execution of such writings.
   (B)   Vacation of street rights-of-way, easements or alleys.
      (1)   Application for easement/alley vacation. The application shall be
submitted to city staff pursuant to the filing schedule approved by the
Planning Commission and shall consist of the following:
         (a)   Application. Completed and signed application form as provided
by the appropriate city official or city staff;
         (b)   Fee. Pay the filing fee specified in the application forms;
         (c)   Petition. A petition to vacate street right-of-way, alley or
easement;
         (d)   Consent for property owners. Written consent of all property
owners abutting the street right-of-way, alley or easement to be vacated;
         (e)   Ownership. Proof of ownership of all property abutting the
street right-of-way, alley or easement to be vacated; and
         (f)   Consent from utilities. Written consent from all utilities
affected by street right-of-way, alley or easement to be vacated.
      (2)   Review and approval. The appropriate city staff will review the
request and recommend approval or denial of the request for a vacation. The
City Council shall make the final determination on approval of vacations by
adopting an ordinance stating that the legal description as provided by the
applicant, and verified by the city, is vacated.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.028 APPEALS.
   Appeals of interpretations of this chapter may be made to the city’s
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.029 ASSURANCE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   When the owner/developer requests final plat approval under the
requirements contained in §
153.065  of this chapter, the owner/developer shall enter into an agreement
with the city to guarantee installation or ensure the completion of
improvements.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may accept the subdivision and issue a
certificate of final plat approval subject to all requirements of these
regulations and upon providing one of the following guarantee requirements or
financial instruments.
      (1)   Cash deposit.
         (a)   The subdivider may provide a cashier’s check in the amount as
determined by the engineer-of-record and agreed upon by the city’s Engineer and
Planning Commission at 125% of the estimated amount to complete the
improvements and installations to comply with these rules and regulations.
         (b)   The check shall be cashed one year from date of approval unless
improvements are completed.
         (c)   For improvement completion that takes over one year, an
extension must be approved by the Planning Commission if found reasonable.
         (d)   If the extension is not approved, the check amount, in full,
will be payable to the city at the end of the year.
      (2)   Irrevocable letter of credit. The subdivider may provide an
irrevocable letter of credit to the city pursuant to the following conditions.
         (a)   The letter of credit will be for an amount equal to 125% of the
estimated cost for improvements as determined by the engineer-of-record and
agreed upon by the City Engineer and Planning Commission.
         (b)   The letter of credit will be irrevocable and will list the city
as the sole beneficiary.
         (c)   The letter of credit will be in a form approved by the City
Attorney.
         (d)   The city, as the sole beneficiary, shall be entitled to payment
upon making demand for payment under the terms of the letter of credit in the
event the subdivider is in default. Further, the city shall be entitled to use
all of the money secured by the letter of credit to assure the cost of
completion of the work in the subdivision.
         (e)   The subdivider will not be entitled to any excess monies until
the work in the subdivision has been completed.
         (f)   The terms of the letter of credit shall be limited to a time
specified, not to exceed one year, unless extension is granted by the Planning
Commission. If the extension is not approved, the amount of the letter of
credit shall be payable in full to the city.
         (g)   The letter of credit extension shall provide all costs incurred
by the project and related inflation costs.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.030 GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Maintenance guarantee. No less than one year’s maintenance by the
developer shall be assured prior to the filing of a plat. One of the following
methods, dependent upon the method utilized, in this division (A), must be
followed.
      (1)   Certificate of completion of improvements. If a certificate of
completion of improvements is submitted prior to filing of the final plat, a
maintenance bond or letter or credit must also be submitted to the city prior
to the filing of the final plat. The maintenance bond, cash deposit or letter
of credit must meet the following conditions.
         (a)   It must be in an amount of 50% of the value of the donated
assets for sewer and storm drainage systems and 25% of the value of the donated
assets for streets. The value of the donated assets shall be as estimated by
the engineer-of-record and agreed upon by the City Engineer or their designees.
         (b)   It must be irrevocable and shall list the city as sole
beneficiary.
         (c)   It must be in a form approved by the City Attorney.
         (d)   It must run for no less than one year.
         (e)   At the end of one year, if the improvements have not been
adequately maintained, as determined by the city staff after consultation with
the city’s Engineer, the city shall be entitled to payment upon making demand
for payment under the terms of the maintenance bond, cash deposit or letter of
credit. The city shall be entitled to use all of the money secured by the
maintenance bond, cash deposit or letter of credit to assure the proper
maintenance of the improvement.
         (f)   The subdivider shall not be entitled to any excess monies until
the maintenance of the improvements in the subdivision has been satisfactorily
completed.
      (2)   Performance bond.
         (a)   If a performance bond is posted to assure completion of the
improvements, that performance bond must also include provisions that
automatically convert it to a maintenance bond upon completion of the
improvements or on the date the performance bond lapses, whichever comes first.
         (b)   Such maintenance bond shall meet all the conditions in
certificate of completion of improvements listed in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Cash deposit.
         (a)   If a cashier’s check is provided to assure completion of the
improvements, that cashier’s check shall be cashed upon completion of the
improvements or one year from submittal, whichever comes first.
         (b)   Upon completion of the improvements, a sum in the amount of 50%
of the value of donated assets for sewer and storm drainage systems, and 25% of
the value of the donated assets for streets shall be held by the city for a
period of one year to assure proper maintenance. Any amount above this sum
shall be returned to the provider of the cashier’s check.
         (c)   At the end of one year, this sum shall be used to perform needed
maintenance. Any amount not needed for proper maintenance, as determined by
city staff, after consultation with the city’s Engineer, will be returned to
the provider of the cashier’s check.
      (4)   Irrevocable letter of credit.
         (a)   If an irrevocable performance letter of credit is posted to
assure completion of the improvements, that letter of credit shall include
provisions that automatically convert it to an irrevocable maintenance letter
of credit upon completion of the improvements or on the date the performance
letter of credit lapses, whichever comes first.
         (b)   Such maintenance letter of credit shall meet all conditions in
certificate of completion of improvements, per division (A)(1) above.
         (c)   When the city staff has received notification that one of the
heretofore described mechanisms assuring completion of the improvements have
been executed, the Planning Commission may certify final plat approval.
   (B)   Guarantees. Prior to final plat approval, the owner/developer shall
enter into an agreement with the city to guarantee installation and/or ensure
the completion of improvements. The city will accept the subdivision and issue
a certificate of final plat approval subject to the following guarantee
requirements.
      (1)   Amount. The owner/developer shall provide a cashier’s check or
completion bond to the city for an amount of 150% of the total estimated cost
for improvements as approved by the Building Official or his or her designee
(s).
      (2)   Term. A cashier’s check shall be deposited immediately. The owner/
developer shall have a maximum of 60 days to complete the improvements, unless
an extension is granted by the Building Official or his or her designees.
      (3)   City action. If the improvements have not been completed within the
terms provided for in division (B)(2) above, the city may take one of the
following actions:
         (a)   Construct the remaining improvements using the amount of the
cashier’s check or completion bond. Any balance remaining after the
improvements have been constructed shall be returned to the owner/developer.
The owner/developer shall be liable for any cost exceeding the amount of the
cashier’s check or completion bond; or
         (b)   Continue to hold the funds until the owner/developer completes
the required improvements.
      (4)   Release of guarantee.
         (a)   Certificate of completion. To request a release of a guarantee,
the owner/developer’s engineer of record shall submit a certification of
completion to the City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, that the development is
complete and functional.
         (b)   Final inspection. The City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, shall
conduct a final inspection of remaining guaranteed items. The final inspection
must be approved prior to releasing the guarantee.
         (c)   Guarantee released. When the guarantee is released, the city
shall reimburse the owner/developer for the remaining balance, if any, of the
amount of the cashier’s check or completion bond.
   (C)   Off-site performance guarantee. At or prior to the preconstruction
conference with the city, the owner/developer shall provide to the Building
Official, or his or her designee(s), a performance guarantee for off-site
improvements meeting the following criteria.
      (1)   Amount. The owner/developer shall provide a letter of credit or a
cashier’s check or performance bond to the city (and/or HISID for
infrastructure improvements) for an amount of 100% of the total estimated cost
for improvements within the public right-of-way and any off-site improvements.
The cost estimate shall be prepared by the owner/developer’s engineer of-record
and approved by the Building Official or his or her designee(s).
      (2)   Term. The term of the performance guarantee shall be agreed to in
writing by the owner/developer’s engineer-of-record and by the Building
Official or his or her designee(s).
      (3)   Letter of credit standards. Performance guarantee letter of credits
shall be irrevocable and shall list the city as the beneficiary. The letter of
credit shall be in a format as provided by the city or as approved by the City
Attorney or his or her designee.
      (4)   Cashier’s check. A cashier’s check will be deposited into an escrow
account immediately.
      (5)   City action. Prior to expiration of the term agreed to in division
(C)(2) above, the city shall inspect the improvements. If the improvements are
not complete to the city’s satisfaction, the owner/developer or engineer of
record may request in writing an extension. If the city does not agree to the
extension, the city may construct the remaining improvements using the amount
of the cashier’s check or letter of credit or performance bond. If the
improvements are complete, the city shall release the performance guarantee in
accordance with division (C)(8) below.
      (6)   Excess monies. The owner/developer shall not be entitled to any
excess monies until the off-site improvement has been completed and the
performance guarantee is released in accordance with division (C)(8) below.
      (7)   Excess costs. The owner/developer shall be liable for any cost
exceeding the amount of the cashier’s check or letter of credit or performance
bond.
      (8)   Release of performance guarantee.
         (a)   Certificate of completion. To request a release of a performance
guarantee, the owner/developer’s engineer-of-record shall submit a
certification of completion to the City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, that the
development is complete and functional.
         (b)   Final inspection. The City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, shall
conduct a final inspection of the off-site improvement. The final inspection
must be approved prior to releasing the performance guarantee.
         (c)   Guarantee released. The performance guarantee is released and
the city shall reimburse the owner/developer for the remaining balance, if any,
of the amount of the cashier’s check or return the letter of credit to the
owner/developer or performance bond.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.031 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty. It shall be the duty of the city’s staff to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the Planning Commission, Mayor,
City Council and the City Attorney any violation or lack of compliance
herewith.
   (B)   Building permits. The city staff shall not issue building permits for
any structure on any lot in a subdivision for which the plat or plan has not
been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein.
   (C)   Plat approval. No plat of any tract of land within the planning area
jurisdiction shall be accepted by the County Circuit Clerk for filing of record
unless the plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and bears the
signature(s) of the proper city official(s).
   (D)   Compliance. No conveyance by metes and bounds of tracts or lots coming
under the definition of subdivision of land without compliance with the
applicable provisions of this regulation or amendments thereto shall be
permitted. No dedication of streets shall by itself be accepted by the City
Council unless the usage of the adjoining affected land is shown. If the
purpose of the opening of the street is to make the affected land available for
sale as a redevelopment or subdivision, the street may not be accepted until
accompanied by the required plat and all improvements are completed and
accepted by the appropriate agencies.
   (E)   Utilities. No public utility, whether publicly or privately owned,
shall provide, extend or authorize the extension of service to any lot,
building, structure or location within the area under the jurisdiction of the
city and its planning area unless:
      (1)   Prior establishment. A lot, building or structure was established
before the adoption of these regulations;
      (2)   Approval. A plat of the location has been approved by the Planning
Commission and filed and recorded in the office of the County Circuit Clerk;
      (3)   Building permit. Notwithstanding the above provisions, nothing
herein shall prevent a citizen of the city, other than a subdivider in
violation of these regulations, from obtaining a building permit, final
inspection, utility service or any other administrative service or remedy, upon
the following conditions:
         (a)   Where the lot for which the administrative permit or service
sought lies within a subdivision which fails to conform with the requirements
of these regulations and such non-conformity was known to the Planning
Commission or city staff, and no action to enforce the requirements of this
chapter was initiated by requesting an injunction in a court of competent
jurisdiction within six months of acquiring knowledge of the alleged violations
or non-conformity; or
         (b)   Where the lot for which the administrative permit or services
sought lies within a subdivision that was located in the planning area
boundary, but outside the city limits at the time of filing.
      (4)   Acceptance of intent and the like. The issuance of any building
permit does not constitute acceptance of or intent by the City Council to
accept any streets providing access to the lot on which the permit is issued.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** PRELIMINARY PLATS ****
§ 153.045 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any owner of land within the planning area boundary of the city
seeking to subdivide property shall not proceed with any construction work on
the proposed subdivision before obtaining preliminary plat approval nor shall
the owner attempt to record the plat of the subdivision or any part thereof,
including conveyance of title to any lot, prior to obtaining final plat
approval from the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The conditions above shall also apply to lot splits and minor
subdivisions, as defined in §
153.085  of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.046 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of the pre-application conference is
to afford the subdivider an opportunity to obtain the advice of the Planning
Commission or staff in order to avoid unnecessary costs and delays to the
subdivider and to give informal guidance to the development at a stage where
potential points of conflict or differences can be readily resolved.
   (B)   Optional. When the owner of a tract of land proposes its subdivision,
the subdivider is urged to discuss informally the intent of his or her
subdivision with the Planning Commission and/or city staff.
   (C)   Fees. Fees shall be collected for a pre-application conference as
outlined in §
152.024 of this code of ordinances, its purpose being to acquaint the
subdivider with plans and policies in effect that may be significant to his or
her proposed subdivision.
   (D)   Sketch plans. The subdivider shall submit sketch plans and data
showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity and the proposed
layout and development of the proposed subdivision. The sketch plan shall
include the following information, all of which may be based on sources of
information other than field survey data:
      (1)   The location of the tract in relation to the surrounding area;
      (2)   The total acreage in the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   All existing streets, roads, wet and dry watercourses and other
significant features of the tract within 500 feet thereof;
      (4)   Approximate location of proposed streets and property lines;
      (5)   An accurate sketch of the proposed site plan;
      (6)   A north arrow and graphic scale;
      (7)   Direction of and approximate distance to nearest existing major
street intersection;
      (8)   Existing utilities and easements, if any;
      (9)   Proposed land use descriptions;
      (10)   Existing adjacent development;
      (11)   Existing easement and covenants affecting the tract or parcel; and
      (12)   Any additional information the developer wishes to provide to give
greater clarification and understanding of the development and its proposed
use.
   (E)   Discussion. At the pre-application conference, the general character
of the development will be discussed and items including zoning, utility
services, street requirements, flooding and drainage and other pertinent
factors related to the proposed development will be reviewed. Discussions at
the pre-application conference shall not imply any approval of subsequent
preliminary or final plat approval, rather to serve as an exchange of
information.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.047 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   The application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission Secretary for
administrative review and shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Application. A letter of intent along with a completed application
form, as provided by the Planning Commission;
   (B)   Fee. Payment of the filing fee as specified in the application or
schedule of fees;
   (C)   Preliminary plat. The number of copies of the preliminary plat as
indicated on the application packet that includes all the requirements for a
preliminary plat indicated in §
153.100 of this chapter. The preliminary plat shall be drawn clearly and
legibly at a scale not smaller than one inch equals 100 feet;
   (D)   Drainage report. Submit drainage report, grading plan and erosion
control plan. Drainage report shall be completed by a professional engineer and
demonstrate compliance with city storm water requirements;
   (E)   Deed. Copy of warranty deed showing ownership of property; and
   (F)   Recorded plat. Copy of recorded plat of existing development, if any.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.048 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Administrative review and approval.
      (1)   The city staff and other appropriate city and public agency staff
shall review the proposed subdivision for conformance with these regulations.
      (2)   In its review, the city staff shall take into consideration the
requirements of the community and the use of the land being subdivided and may
offer suggestions concerning changes needed that would enable the project to
meet the purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (3)   Particular attention shall be given to width, arrangement and
location of streets, utility easements, drainage, lot sizes and arrangements
and other facilities such as parks, playgrounds or school sites, public
buildings, parking areas and the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
adjoining, existing, proposed and possible subdivision of lands.
      (4)   Comments will be sought from county officials who may provide
recommendations as applicable to development within the planning area, but
outside the city limits.
   (B)   Other city departments. The city staff may distribute copies of the
preliminary plat to other city departments and officials with the request that
its recommendations for either approval or disapproval be provided in writing.
Such recommendations shall be given to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Planning Commission action.
      (1)   Changes or additions. After the Planning Commission has reviewed
the preliminary plat and taken into account any staff recommendation, the
applicant shall be advised of any required changes and/or additions.
      (2)   Action. The Planning Commission shall approve, approve
conditionally, or disapprove the preliminary plat within 120 days from the date
of receipt thereof or the preliminary plat shall be deemed approved unless the
subdivider stipulates in writing to the Planning Commission that additional
time is allowed. If disapproved, the preliminary plat shall be returned to the
subdivider with a written statement as to the reasons for disapproval.
      (3)   Disapproval. A disapproved preliminary plat may be resubmitted. The
plat shall be submitted for review as outlined in this regulation for an
original preliminary plat submission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.049 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   The preliminary plat may be approved by the Planning Commission when the
applicant has provided clear and convincing evidence that:
   (A)   Water. Definite provision has been made for a water supply system that
is sufficient in terms of quantity, dependability, fire protection, and quality
to provide an appropriate supply of water for the type of subdivision proposed.
The applicant shall provide verification of approval from the governing
utility;
   (B)   Sewer. Adequate provision has been made for adequate sewer system
service to the development and, that such systems will comply with federal,
state and local laws and regulations. The applicant shall provide verification
of approval from the governing utility;
   (C)   Special precautions. All areas of the proposed subdivision which may
involve soil or topographical conditions presenting hazards or requiring
special precautions have been identified by the subdivider and that the
proposed uses of these areas are compatible with such conditions;
   (D)   Transportation.
      (1)   The existing transportation system is adequate to accommodate the
traffic to be generated by the subdivision. The Planning Commission may
require, as part of plat approval, a traffic study, prepared by professional
traffic engineer and paid for by the developer, demonstrating that existing
streets can handle the proposed traffic. The city also may require that the
developer provide plans and profiles showing existing ground surface, proposed
and established street grades, including extensions for a reasonable distance
beyond the limits of the proposed development.
      (2)   If the traffic study indicates that the development will create
more demand than the existing transportation system can accommodate, the
developer shall show that it will make appropriate off-site improvements to
meet the increase in demand and capacity.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to hire an independent consultant to
verify the findings of the original study.
   (E)   Testing verification. The city may require borings and soundings be
made in specific areas to ascertain subsurface conditions where proposed
subdivision will not be served by public sanitary sewer service. The data will
be submitted to the state’s Department of Health when obtaining approval of the
subdivision sanitary facilities;
   (F)   Mitigation. The developer has taken every effort to mitigate the
impact of the proposed subdivision on public health, safety and welfare; and
   (G)   Design standards. The plans must meet the requirements of §§
153.115 through
153.124 of this chapter and the professional opinion of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.050 AUTHORIZATION TO PROCEED.
   Receipt of an approved or conditionally approved copy of the preliminary
plat, together with an approved copy of the improvements plan shall constitute
authorization of the Planning Commission for the subdivider to proceed with the
installation of improvements and the staking out of lots and blocks. The
subdivider, after conditional approval of the preliminary plat, shall complete
all improvements required under this regulation prior to filing a final plat
application.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.051 EXPIRATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Expiration. The preliminary plat approval shall automatically expire
one year from the original date of approval and further development work will
require approval of another preliminary plat. An approved preliminary plat
conditioned upon the developer completing a list of deficiencies shall also be
considered to be null and void should the list of deficiencies in its entirety
not be completed within the designated six-month period from the date of
preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   Extensions. If at the end of the expiration time approved in division
(A) above for the preliminary plat, the subdivider submits a written request
for extension of the preliminary approval, the Planning Commission may grant an
extension of up to 12 additional months providing, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, sufficient work has been completed with respect to the
required improvements on the property. No more than one extension shall be
granted.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** FINAL PLATS ****
§ 153.065 APPLICABILITY.
   An application for final plat approval may be submitted for Planning
Commission approval when one of the following requirements is met.
   (A)   Improvements complete. The final plat of the proposed subdivision or
an approved phase may be submitted to the Planning Commission for final
approval at the time of completion of improvements shown on the preliminary
plat.
      (1)   Certificate of completion. The owner/developer’s engineer-of-record
submits a statement certifying that all improvements and installations to the
subdivision required for its approval under the terms of these regulations have
been made, added or installed in accordance with city specifications.
      (2)   Final inspection. The city’s Building Official or his or her
designee conducts and certifies a final inspection.
   (B)   Improvements substantially complete. When the subdivision is
substantially complete, as provided for in §
153.072 of this chapter, and owner/developer guarantees completion of the
remaining items, as provided for in §
153.073 of this chapter, in accordance with §
153.029 of this chapter, the final plat may be submitted for final approval.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.066 APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT.
   When the requirements of these regulations have been satisfied and while the
preliminary plat approval is in effect, the owner/developer shall submit to the
Planning Commission Secretary an application for review and approval of the
final plat which shall consist of: a completed application form, as provided by
the Planning Commission, requesting review and approval of the final plat, as
well as the following.
   (A)   Plat. The final plat in the number of prints as indicated on the
application form, with all items required for a final plat as provided for in §
153.100 of this chapter and other documents as specified in the application.
   (B)   Fee. Payment of the filing fee as specified in final plat application
or schedule of fees.
   (C)   Digital copy. The owner/developer must submit with an application for
final plat approval, the proposed final plat in digital form with all
information in PDF format on CD. Information shall include property boundary,
lot lines, easements, building setbacks, rights-of-way, street widths, pre-
addresses, street names, arc radius, arc distance and any other information
that the Planning Commission may require. Line and curve data shall have
bearing and distance chords. Questions concerning this requirement may be
directed to the City Engineer or the Planning Commission Secretary.
   (D)   Donated assets. Approved estimate of donated assets, broken down by
improvement type (streets, water, electric, sewer, drainage and sidewalks), as
prepared by the engineer-of-record and approved by the City Engineer or their
designees.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.067 PRIOR TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Maintenance assurance. The owner/developer shall submit a financial
instrument that assures maintenance of the donated assets in accordance with
the requirements in §
153.030(A) of this chapter no later than 12:00 p.m. the Friday before the
Planning Commission meeting at which the final plat will be reviewed.
   (B)   Guarantee of improvements. If improvements are substantially complete,
the owner/developer shall submit a financial instrument in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
153.029 of this chapter no later than 12:00 p.m. the Friday before the Planning
Commission meeting at which the final plat will be reviewed.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.068 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission shall approve or
disapprove the final plat within 60 days of receipt of the application.
Disapproval of the plat shall be transmitted to the owner/developer with the
reasons therefore within a reasonable time (not to exceed two weeks) after the
meeting at which the plat was disapproved. Approval of the final plat by the
Planning Commission shall not constitute the acceptance by the public of the
dedication of any streets or other public ways or grounds.
   (B)   City Council action. City Council approval of the final plat shall
provide for the acceptance of right-of-way dedications. City Council approval
and filing of the final plat for record constitutes the acceptance by the
public of dedications and improvements including any instruments of surety
provided as a condition of final plat approval. City Council approval will be
referenced in City Council minutes.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.069 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections required. All projects shall be constructed according to
the plans and specifications reviewed and approved by the city. Inspections
shall be made periodically by the city in accordance with other applicable
ordinances. The city, or its designated agents, may inspect those facilities,
improvements and installations for conformance with plans and specifications.
Any improvements where post installation inspections methods cannot ascertain
whether proper methods or materials were employed may require resident on-site
inspection during installation at the sole cost of the developer.
   (B)   Defects and deficiencies. If such inspection reveals that there are
any defects or deficiencies in such improvements as installed or that
improvements differ from the final engineering plans and specifications
accepted by the city, the City Engineer shall notify the owner/developer and
his or her engineer of record in writing of such defects, deficiencies and
deviations. The owner/developer shall, at his or her expense, correct such
defects or deviations prior to final plat approval. When such deficiencies have
been corrected, the engineer-of-record shall notify the City Engineer in
writing that improvements are again ready and a final inspection shall be
conducted.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.070 RECORDING.
   (A)   Owner/developer responsibility. Upon approval of the final plat and
acceptance of the public dedications by the City Council, the owner/developer
shall record the final plat at the office of the County Circuit Clerk no later
than ten days of the final plat approval.
   (B)   Copies. After recording the plat, the owner/developer shall provide
two copies of the plat for the files of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.071 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permits may be issued until proof of the recording of the
approved final plat has been presented to the Planning Commission Secretary.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.072 CRITERIA FOR SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION (NON-BONDABLE ITEMS).
   The following items shall be completed prior to Planning Commission approval
of the final plat:
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   All curb and gutter and street drainage slopes completed and
backfilled;
      (2)   Final layer of asphalt in-place;
      (3)   Street signs paid for;
      (4)   Pedestrian accommodations constructed; and
      (5)   Road right-of-way restoration substantially complete.
   (B)   Sewer.
      (1)   All sewer lines constructed to grade;
      (2)   Mandrel and pressure tests complete;
      (3)   All manholes complete to required elevations and vacuum tested;
      (4)   Sewer services marked;
      (5)   Lift station site functionally complete;
      (6)   Tracer wires installed on force mains and gravity sewer lines and
tested;
      (7)   Lift station alarm completed and monitorable; and
      (8)   Draft final record drawings.
   (C)   Water.
      (1)   All water lines in-place, pressure tested and bacterially tested
safe;
      (2)   All hydrants and valves in-place, accessible and operational
(facing street);
      (3)   Meter tiles and setters in place;
      (4)   Tracer wires installed and tested;
      (5)   Draft of record drawings;
      (6)   Passing test results for all backflow devices provided; and
      (7)   All backflow prevention devices installed properly and functional.
   (D)   Drainage.
      (1)   Drainage swales in place, sodded or concrete-lined, properly
dedicated with erosion control measures in place;
      (2)   Detention/retention facilities to grade and draining properly;
      (3)   Outlet structures, pilot channels, headwalls, flumes and other
appurtenances in place and constructed to approved plans and specifications;
      (4)   Any needed off-site improvements or easements in place;
      (5)   Sodding of detention/retention ponds completed and established;
      (6)   Fencing of detention/retention ponds in place;
      (7)   Aeration facilities for retention ponds in place;
      (8)   All drainage inlets, outlets, and conduits in proper location and
constructed to approved plans and specifications; and
      (9)   Final layer of drainage paving in-place as required by approved
plan, including parking lots.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.073 CRITERIA FOR GUARANTEES (BONDABLE ITEMS).
   The following items do not need to be completed prior to Planning Commission
approval of the final plat; provided that, the requirements of §
153.029 of this chapter have been met:
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   Correction of final layer of pavement to the required thickness and
density;
      (2)   Correction of low or ponding areas in street;
      (3)   Correction of unacceptable curb sections;
      (4)   Correction of damaged pedestrian accommodation sections; and
      (5)   Approval of final record street drawings.
   (B)   Sewer.
      (1)   Cosmetic work; and
      (2)   Final record drawings.
   (C)   Water.
      (1)   Painting hydrants with proper coding for fire flow rates;
      (2)   Hydrant markers installed;
      (3)   Adjusting meter tiles to grade;
      (4)   Adjusting meter setters;
      (5)   Adjusting valve stacks;
      (6)   Pouring concrete valve operator pads; and
      (7)   Final record drawings.
   (D)   Drainage. Cosmetic work (finish grout, clean out boxes, pipes and
other appurtenances).
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** INCIDENTAL SUBDIVISIONS ****
§ 153.085 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is designed to expedite the platting and recording of
minor subdivisions, lot splits, parcel splits and certain other dividing or
adjustment of land area defined hereafter.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, INCIDENTAL SUBDIVISIONS include
the following.
      (1)   LOT SPLIT. A lot or parcel split, in which a lot or parcel, located
in an already existing recorded subdivision is divided into three lots or less,
and where rights-of-way and/or utility easements are being dedicated to the
city. A property cannot be divided into more than four separate tracts within a
five-year time period.
      (2)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A minor subdivision in which a lot, tract or
parcel is divided into three lots or less and does not require dedications,
vacations, reservations, changes in alignment of easements or rights-of-way or
extensions of utilities. A property cannot be divided into more than four
separate tracts within a five-year time period.
      (3)   PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT. A property line adjustment in which a
property line(s) is moved or relocated, but does not create an additional lot.
A PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT may or may not dedicate rights-of-way and/or utility
easements.
      (4)   CORRECTION PLAT. A correction plat in which a correction to an
existing plat is necessary due to an incorrect legal description or scrivener’s
errors. The correction plat does not change the boundaries, does not change the
subdivision name and does not create new lots. The CORRECTION PLAT may or may
not create new utility easements.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.086 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   The application shall be submitted to the Planning Commission Secretary for
administrative review and approval, and shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Application. Completed and signed incidental subdivision application
form;
   (B)   Fee. Payment of the filing fee as specified in the application or
schedule of fees;
   (C)   Survey. Survey of the property signed and sealed by a registered land
surveyor with the state showing the information as required on the application;
   (D)   Plat. Provide the number of copies of the plat as indicated in the
application. The plat shall be drawn clearly to include the information as
required in §
153.100 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Deed. Copy of land deed showing ownership of property.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.087 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   Applicability. The Planning Commission shall review lot splits,
minor subdivisions, property line adjustments and correction plats. All
applications for waivers shall require approval of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Action. The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with
conditions or disapprove said plat. After formal approval by the Planning
Commission, a building permit can be issued after the applicant records the
plat at the office of the County Circuit Clerk and provides the city with two
copies. If the plans are approved with conditions, the conditions shall be set
forth in written form to the owner/developer. The signature of the owner/
developer on the form setting forth the conditions of approval shall be deemed
his or her agreement to comply with said conditions, whereupon a building
permit may be issued. If the plat is disapproved, the reasons for such action
shall be provided in written form to the developer.
      (3)   Additional review. If the Planning Commission determines that there
is a necessity of transmitting the plans to outside sources for additional
comment or in-depth study, the Planning Commission Secretary shall notify the
developer in writing within 30 days of receipt of plans that a decision will
not be made within the 30-day time period, what the reasons are for the delay
and the date at which a decision can be expected; the developer may be assessed
additional engineering and professional review fees. If the developer objects
to such an extension, the objection shall be heard as a priority item at the
next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
      (4)   Approval signatures. All approvals to any plat shall be signified
by the signature of the Planning Commission Chairman.
   (B)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission shall review any
incidental subdivision after administrative review as set forth in division (A)
above within 120 days of receipt thereof, otherwise the incidental subdivision
shall be deemed to have been approved. Approval of the incidental subdivision
by the Planning Commission shall not constitute the acceptance by the City
Council of the dedication of any streets or other public ways or grounds.
   (C)   City Council action. Any incidental subdivision that dedicates street
rights-of-way or easements shall be reviewed, for approval or denial, by the
City Council.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.088 RECORDING.
   If approved, and after all conditions have been met, the applicant shall
submit the plat for recording with the County Circuit Clerk. Two copies and
digital copies in AutoCAD (DWG) and PDF format of the final recorded plat shall
be furnished by the applicant to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.089 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   Approval or disapproval of incidental subdivisions shall be given based on
the following threshold guidelines.
   (A)   No new city constructed street or alley is required or proposed.
   (B)   No new public infrastructure is required.
   (C)   No vacation of streets, alleys, setback lines, access control or
easements is required or proposed.
   (D)   Such action will not result in any significant increases in public
service requirements, nor will interfere with maintaining existing public
service levels.
   (E)   There is adequate street right-of-way as required by these regulations
and the Master Street Plan.
   (F)   All easement requirements have been satisfied.
   (G)   All lots created by such split or readjustment shall have access on a
public street, either by directly accessing a public street with adequate
street frontage or via an access easement. Access easements shall be a minimum
of 50 feet in width and shall only serve three lots without direct access to a
public street.
   (H)   No substandard sized lots or parcels shall be created.
   (I)   No waivers or variances from these regulations are requested.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.100 PLAT AND PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Items to be shown on plat or included in a plan.
      (1)   Refer to application and worksheet; and
      (2)   A notice shall be placed on the preliminary plat stating
“Preliminary Plat for Inspection Purposes Only. Not for Record Purposes”.
   (B)   Certificates.
      (1)   Preliminary plats, large scale developments, PUDs. Each preliminary
plat must be submitted in accordance with applicable state statutes and shall
include the following certificates.
         (a)   Certificate of preliminary survey accuracy.
 
I,                        , hereby certify that this plat correctly represents a boundary survey made by me and all monuments shown
hereon actually exist and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown.
 
Date of Execution:                                               
Signed:                                                               
Registered Land Surveyor
 
State of Arkansas Registration No.                                               
 
 
         (b)   Certificate of preliminary engineering accuracy. Each set of
street and drainage plans must be submitted in accordance with applicable state
statutes and any plans d specifications required:
 
I, __________________________, hereby certify that this plan correctly represents a plan prepared under my direction and engineering
requirements of the Holiday Island Subdivision Regulations have been complied with.
 
Date of Execution:                                               
Signed:                                                               
Registered Land Surveyor
 
State of Arkansas Registration No.                                               
 
 
         (c)   Certificate of preliminary plat approval.
 
This plat has been given preliminary plat approval only and has not been approved for recording purposes as a public record. This
certificate shall expire on _________________ (date).
 
Date of Execution:                                               
Signed:                                                               
Chairperson, Holiday Island City Planning Commission
 
 
      (2)   Final plats, lot splits/property line adjustments.
         (a)   Certificate of ownership.
 
We the undersigned, owners of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted, and
subdivided and do hereby lay off, plat, subdivide said real estate in accordance with this plat and do hereby dedicate to the use of
the public the streets, alleys, drives, and easements as shown on said plat.
 
Date of Execution:                                               
Signed:                                                               
 
Name & Address:                                                
 
Source of Title: Book _________, Page _________
 
 
         (b)   Certificate of surveying accuracy.
 
I,                   , hereby certify that this plat correctly represents a boundary survey made by me and boundary markers and lot
corners shown hereon actually exist and their location, type and material are correctly shown and all minimum requirements of the
Arkansas Minimum Standards for Land Surveyors have been met.
 
Date of Execution:                                               
Signed:                                                               
 
Registered Land Surveyor
State of Arkansas Registration No.:                                               
 
 
         (c)   Certificate of approval.
 
Pursuant to the City of Holiday Island Subdivision Regulations and all other conditions and approvals having been completed, this
document is hereby accepted. This Certificate is hereby executed under the authority of the said rules and regulations.
 
This approval does not guarantee any of the following:
1. Delivery of public water or sewer service.
2. Delivery of any other utility service.
3. Improvements to any affected City Streets or Carroll County Roads.
4. Approval from the Arkansas Department of Health.
5. Access to the property via easements or otherwise either known or unknown.
 
Date of Execution:                                               
Signed:                                                               
Chairperson, Holiday Island City Planning Commission
 
Signed:                                                               
Mayor, City of Holiday Island
 
Signed:                                                               
Recorder-Treasurer, City of Holiday Island
 
   (C)   Waiver.
      (1)   The applicant may request the Planning Commission waive any of the
foregoing requirements. The Planning Commission may do this when, in its
discretion, any such requirement is not necessary due to the nature of the
proposed subdivision or large scale development. Such request for waiver must
be documented in writing and sent to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   A pre-application conference can be arranged and is encouraged to
review the proposed project requirements.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.101 MINIMUM SURVEY STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements. This subchapter is provided to establish minimum
standards for surveying work performed for the development of subdivisions
within the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission. This subchapter shall apply
to all developments requiring the submittal of a preliminary or final plat to
the Planning Commission for review and approval. All boundary surveys performed
for the purpose of subdividing properties within the jurisdiction of the city
shall conform to the “Arkansas Minimum Standards for Property Boundary Surveys
and Plats”, except where the standards contained within this chapter exceed
those established by the state.
   (B)   Horizontal control standards.
      (1)   Horizontal datum. The horizontal datum for all survey work
performed shall be the Arkansas State Plane Coordinate System.
      (2)   Accuracy standard. Horizontal positions for all monuments shall be
determined to an accuracy standard equal to Urban Type A classification as
defined by the “Arkansas Minimum Standards for Property Boundary Surveys and
Plats”. All field techniques and procedures shall be compatible with the
equipment utilized to ensure that a true urban Type A accuracy level is
achieved.
      (3)   Data control form.
      (4)   Interior corners. All interior corners of the subdivision (lot
corners, street center line control points and the like) shall be established
and monumented to meet the minimum accuracy standards established by the
“Arkansas Minimum Standards for Property Boundary Surveys and Plats”.
   (C)   Vertical control standards.
      (1)   Vertical datum. The vertical datum for all survey work performed
shall be the North American Vertical Datum 1988 Adjustment (NAVD88).
      (2)   Accuracy standard. Elevations for all concrete monuments shall be
determined to an accuracy standard equal to third order classification as
defined by the Federal Geodetic Control Committee. All field techniques and
procedures shall be compatible with the equipment utilized to ensure that a
true third order accuracy level is achieved.
   (D)   Monumentation.
      (1)   Monument construction. Monuments may be cast in place or
prefabricated and shall be of similar construction described as follows:
         (a)   A minimum six-inch diameter steel reinforced concrete post set
flush with ground. The concrete shall be 3,000-psi minimum compressive strength
premix concrete;
         (b)   Monument shall be a minimum of 36 inches, or to bedrock, in
depth;
         (c)   Steel reinforcement shall consist of a minimum of two 34-inch
long, one-half-inch diameter steel bars. Bars shall be driven a minimum of six
inches into undisturbed soil; and
         (d)   A brass or aluminum survey cap (including a permanent magnet), a
minimum of two inches in diameter, shall be cast or grouted into the top of the
concrete post. The following information shall be stamped into the survey cap:
            1.   A stamped “.” to mark the precise location of point being
monumented;
            2.   Registration number of the surveyor in charge; and
            3.   Monument number as assigned by the city.
      (2)   Lot and boundary corner monuments. All lot corners and boundary
corners other than those described in §
153.118 of this chapter shall be monumented according to the specifications
outlined with the “Arkansas Minimum Standards for Property Surveys and Plats”
and any amendment made thereto.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
**** DESIGN STANDARDS ****
§ 153.115 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to specify the basic and
minimum requirements for lots, blocks, streets and other physical elements in
new residential subdivisions. It also provides a guide for the staff, the
Planning Commission and the applicant in the review and preparation of
subdivision plats.
   (B)   Suitability of land. Land subject to flooding or topographically
unsuitable for residential occupancy and which the Planning Commission
considers unsuitable for subdividing shall not be platted for any use that may
increase the danger to health, life, property or aggravate erosion or flood
hazard. When such land is in the proposed plat, this land shall be set aside
for such land uses as will not be affected by periodic flooding or unsuitable
topographic conditions unless adequate corrective measures are formulated by
the developer and approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Provision of land for public purposes. Where proposed community or
public facilities are located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision,
the Planning Commission, City Council or public board shall require that land
for those public facilities be reserved as a condition of preliminary plat
approval. Such reservations shall be referred to the appropriate public board,
commission or body having jurisdiction or financial responsibility to permit
the opportunity to acquire said sites either through purchase, taking an option
or the filing of condemnation proceedings under the power of eminent domain.
The contract to acquire the subject public site must be closed within 12 months
following the date of approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning
Commission or the subdivision process shall continue without regard for the
proposed community or public facilities.
   (D)   Access. A publicly dedicated street shall serve every subdivision.
Every lot or parcel within a subdivision shall have access to a publicly
dedicated street, a dedicated easement or in the case of a PUD access to a
public street by means of a private street. All lots shall front on public
streets, except for PUD where the Planning Commission may approve the private
streets.
   (E)   Fitness for development. Based on topographic maps, soil surveys
prepared by the Department of Agriculture, drainage information from the
General Plan and any special studies made by or for the city or information
provided by the developer, the Planning Commission may require that steep
grades, unstable soil and floodplains be set aside and not subdivided until
corrections are made to protect life, health and property.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.116 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Coordination. The subdivider shall coordinate with the city, HISID and
other local utilities for the design, supply and installation of all utilities
serving subdivisions within the planning jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Specifications. All utilities shall comply with the city and HISID
Water Utility and other local utility providers specifications.
   (C)   Placement underground. In new residential developments requiring
Planning Commission and HISID approval and new commercial developments all
utility wires, lines and/or cables in the developments utilized by electric
and/or telecommunications companies shall be placed underground. Overhead
wires, supporting structures and associated structures of a temporary nature
which provide temporary service are exempt from this requirement. A single
power pole near the exterior boundary of a development shall be allowed to
provide connections for underground service, except in minor subdivisions as
defined in §
153.085 of this chapter.
   (D)   Structures. No structures shall be located within a utility easement.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.117 BLOCKS.
   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with regard to the
following:
   (A)   Use. Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use proposed;
   (B)   Zoning. Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
   (C)   Access. Needs for convenient access, circulation and control and
safety of street traffic;
   (D)   Topography. Limitations and opportunities of topography;
   (E)   Size. Blocks of less than 400 feet in length or more than 1,500 feet
in length shall be prohibited. Blocks of over 1,000 feet in length may require
a public crosswalk within a dedicated easement of not less than 15 feet in
width including a paved crosswalk not less than five feet in width to provide
pedestrian circulation;
   (F)   Business and industrial use. Blocks intended for business and
industrial uses should be of a width suitable for the intended purpose with due
allowance for off-street parking and loading facilities; and
   (G)   Residential use. Residential blocks shall be wide enough to provide
two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where fronting on freeways,
expressways and major thoroughfares or prevented by topographic constraints in
which case the Commission may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.118 LOTS.
   (A)   Access. Every lot shall have access to a public street, except where
private streets are explicitly approved by the Planning Commission in planned
unit developments (PUD).
   (B)   Shape. The shape of residential lots shall conform to the design of
the subdivision. The Planning Commission shall judge lot shapes on the type of
development and the use for which the lot is intended.
   (C)   Dimensions. Except as provided herein, the minimum lot dimensions
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances for the zoning districts within which
the subdivision is located.
   (D)   Setbacks. The minimum building setback line shall be as defined in §§
152.076 and
152.088 of this code of ordinances, except as determined in §
152.090 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Floodways. A minimum building setback line shall be established on the
plat not less than 25 feet from any floodway boundary. This shall not affect
plats that have been initiated prior to the passage of this chapter and filed
while final plat approval is in effect.
   (F)   Corner lot size. Corner lots should be roughly 20% larger than
interior lots.
   (G)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots other than corner lots
fronting on two streets shall not be platted, except under extreme
circumstances, as may be approved by the Planning Commission, in which case
building lines shall be established for both front and rear lot lines. Double
frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided, except where they are
needed to provide for the separation of residential developments and traffic
arteries or to overcome specific topographic or site constraints. Where double
frontage exists, a wall easement of at least ten feet shall be provided along a
portion of the lot abutting the traffic artery or other use where screening is
required. In this circumstance, there shall be no right of access across the
wall easement. At the discretion of the Planning Commission, the permanent wall
shall be of the height and architectural character which will be appropriate
and appropriately screened. Should the wall shall still be a restriction upon
right of access and such restriction shall clearly be so designated on the plat
and within the accompanying bill of assurance.
   (H)   Slope and drainage. Every lot must slope to a street or its intended
storm water collection system.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.119 STREETS.
   (A)   Standard street specifications. All streets shall be constructed in
conformance with at least the requirements of the city’s current adopted Master
Street Plan.
   (B)   Right-of-way dedication. Subdivisions and large-scale developments
shall dedicate sufficient right-of-way to bring those streets which the Master
Street Plan shows to abut or intersect the development into conformance with
the right-of-way requirements of the Master Street Plan for said streets;
provided, the Planning Commission may recommend a lesser dedication in the
event of undue hardship or practical difficulties. Such lesser dedication shall
be subject to approval by the City Council.
   (C)   Coordination. The street system of a proposed subdivision shall be
designed to coordinate with existing, proposed and planned street outside of
the subdivision as provided in this section.
   (D)   Connectivity. Local and residential streets shall connect with
surrounding streets to permit the safe and convenient movement of traffic
between residential neighborhoods or facilitate emergency access and
evacuation, but such connections shall not be permitted where the effect would
be to encourage the use of such streets by substantial through traffic.
      (1)   Waivers. In cases where site conditions do not allow for adequate
connectivity, a waiver may be requested in accordance with §
153.026 of this chapter. The waiver shall be reviewed based on the following
criteria.
         (a)   The development is adjacent to developed land that does not
provide locations for connection of the street system.
         (b)   The development is adjacent to topography with slopes greater
than those defined in §
152.086 of this code of ordinances.
         (c)   The property does not include a collector, minor or principal
arterial shown on the Master Street Plan.
      (2)   Gated communities. To ensure public safety with easy access to
residential neighborhoods by police, fire and ambulance services and to
maintain neighborhood connectivity as described above, gated communities are
prohibited.
   (E)   Street stubs. Wherever a proposed development abuts un-platted land or
a future development phase of the same development, street stubs shall be
provided as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to provide access to
abutting properties or to logically extend the street system into the
surrounding area. All street stubs shall be provided with temporary turn-around
or cul-de-sacs unless specifically exempted by the City Engineer or Planning
Commission, and the restoration and extension of the street shall be the
responsibility of any future developer of the abutting land.
   (F)   Street intersections. Street intersections shall be designed to ensure
safety. Because steep grades at intersections reduce sight distances and hinder
vehicle control, street grades shall be flattened out within 100 feet of
intersections according to AASHTO geometric design guidelines for highways and
city streets.
   (G)   Additional safeguards. These requirements shall be considered
minimums, and where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for the
interest of public health, safety and welfare, additional safeguards may be
required.
   (H)   Residential street lights.
      (1)   Public streets. Public streets shall not have street lights.
      (2)   Private streets. Private streets shall not have street lights. The
developer and/or property owners association shall be responsible for the cost
of electrical power service and ongoing maintenance and upkeep of all exterior
lighting fixtures. The city shall bear no responsibility for exterior lights.
      (3)   Existing non-standard street light fixtures. Non-standard street
light fixtures existing prior to adoption of this chapter may continue. If the
non-standard street light is damaged, two options are available:
         (a)   Repair. To use the same fixture, the homeowners’ association
shall provide the replacement parts and labor for cost of repair; and
         (b)   Replacement. When a property owners’ association does not
provide the replacement parts, the city shall remove the existing fixture and
replace it with a street light fixture that most closely resembles and charge
the property owners’ association for cost of parts and labor.
      (4)   Location and placement. The supplying electric utility provider
shall approve the location and placement of all types of street light fixtures.
   (I)   Commercial street lights.
      (1)   Public streets. Developers of all new commercial subdivisions that
contain public streets within the development or that front a public street
shall select either the standard commercial street light option or if the
subdivision is served by underground electric utilities, the upgraded
commercial street light option.
         (a)   Standard commercial street light option. The standard commercial
street light is a 400 watt, High Pressure Sodium Cobra head style installed on
a wood pole. The standard commercial street light is serviced by overhead power
lines and shall not be installed for developments where all utilities are
located underground.
         (b)   Upgraded commercial street light option.
            1.   Description. The upgraded commercial street lights are 250
watt, High Pressure Sodium Acorn style fixtures installed on a cast iron/steel
pole that meets the IESNA definition of a “cutoff” fixture. The upgraded
commercial street light is serviced by underground power lines. This option
shall only be an option for developments that locate all utilities underground.
            2.   Developer responsibility. The developer shall contribute the
cost of the upgraded commercial street light and pole; provide the surface
mount foundation and anchor system; and provide the one and one-half inch
conduit raceway, as specified by the servicing electric provider.
      (2)   Private streets.
         (a)   The developer of new commercial developments that have private
streets shall contribute 100% of the cost for either the standard commercial
street light fixture or the upgraded commercial street light fixture, whichever
is selected by the developer.
         (b)   The developer and/or property owners’ association shall be
responsible for the cost of electrical power service and ongoing maintenance
and upkeep of the fixtures.
         (c)   The city shall bear no responsibility for street lights located
on private streets.
      (3)   Gas street light fixtures. Gas operated commercial street light
fixtures are prohibited on principal arterial, minor arterial or collector
streets as designated on the city’s current Master Street Plan.
      (4)   Location and placement. The local electric utility shall approve
the location and placement of all types of street light fixtures.
   (J)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be no longer than 660 feet.
   (K)   Traffic calming. The following regulations apply to all new
residential and local streets.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of traffic calming regulations is to design
new residential and local streets in a manner that improves road safety through
speed and volume reduction; which in turn can improve neighborhood livability
and provide opportunities for landscaping and aesthetic improvements.
      (2)   Design speed. Local and residential streets shall be designed to
encourage and maintain eighty-fifth percentile speeds in the 25 to 30 mph
range.
      (3)   Speed control points. The maximum road length between speed control
points shall be 660 feet. Speed control points are considered any one of the
following.
         (a)   Warranted stop sign. A stop sign shall be warranted at the
intersection of a local or residential street and a collector or arterial
street. A stop sign is not warranted at intersections between local and/or
residential streets.
         (b)   Horizontal curve. Curves serving as speed control points shall
have a centerline radius between 90 and 120 feet.
         (c)   Traffic calming device. A traffic calming device is a physical
element of the street design that compels drivers to slow down. Recommended
traffic calming devices include traffic circles, chicanes, center island
narrowing, speed tables, intersection bulb-outs and mid-block chokers.
      (4)   Preferred methods. The following traffic reducing techniques are
encouraged when designing streets for the established design speed:
         (a)   Curvilinear street form, while maintaining a grid pattern;
         (b)   T-streets or three-way intersections;
         (c)   Entry treatments;
         (d)   Short block lengths; and
         (e)   Tree-lined streets. Street trees spaced at a distance of 25 to
35 feet apart are encouraged.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.120 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Storm water drainage control standards. All grading and drainage shall
be designed and developed in conformance with the requirements of the city’s
current adopted Drainage Criteria Standards.
   (B)   Notice of intent. The developer is required to follow application
process for storm water prevention plans as currently required by the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ).
   (C)   Detention and retention ponds.
   (D)   Grading permits.
      (1)   Applicability. Grading permits shall be required for grading,
filling, excavation or land alteration of any kind on any site one acre or more
in size during the entire construction process, where such activity is not part
of an approved preliminary plat or large-scale development.
      (2)   Exemptions. Grading permits shall not be required for the
following: excavations below finish grade for basements, footings, swimming
pools, hot tubs, septic systems and like structures authorized by a valid
building permit or retaining walls with an approved retaining wall permit.
      (3)   Application. A separate permit shall be required for each site; it
may cover both excavations and fills. Grading permits may be issued jointly for
parcels of land that are contiguous, so long as erosion control measures are in
place until project completion:
         (a)   Application form. Completed and signed application form;
         (b)   Fee. Payment of fee as indicated on the application;
         (c)   Grading plan. A grading plan in accordance with the
specifications identified in the application and in conformance with all
applicable regulations, including, but not limited to, the currently adopted
storm water regulations as established by United States Environmental
Protection Agency, Region VI, published in the Federal Register; the city’s
currently adopted Storm Water Pollution Prevention and Erosion Control
Standards; and the city’s currently adopted Storm Water Drainage Control
Standards;
         (d)   Warranty deed. A copy of the warranty deed showing ownership of
property;
         (e)   Recorded plat. A copy of the recorded plat of the property, if
applicable;
         (f)   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3). The Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3) in accordance with the specifications
identified in the currently adopted Storm Water Pollution Prevention and
Erosion Control Standards;
         (g)   Small site notice (less than five acres). A copy of State
Department of Environmental Quality’s (ADEQ) small site notice where
construction on a site will disturb soil or remove vegetation on less than five
acres during the life of the construction project; and
         (h)   NOI (five or more acres). A copy of the notice of intent (NOI)
submitted to ADEQ is required at the time of application where construction on
a site will disturb soil or remove vegetation on five or more acres. The ADEQ
approved National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit shall
be submitted prior to approval of the grading permit.
      (4)   Review and approval.
         (a)   Evaluation. Grading plans shall be evaluated by the City
Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, for conformance with the requirements of all
applicable regulations, including, but not limited to, the currently adopted
storm water regulations as established by United States Environmental
Protection Agency, Region VI, published in the Federal Register; the city’s
currently adopted Storm Water Pollution Prevention and Erosion Control
Standards; and the city’s currently adopted Storm Water Drainage Control
Standards.
         (b)   Variations in requirements. Requirements may be varied by the
City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, with the approval of the Planning
Commission. The extent to which variations may be made will depend on the soil
types encountered, planned slopes, planned vegetation and investigative
engineering reports. In no case shall the City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee,
waive or modify any of the minimum erosion control requirements.
         (c)   Approval. No grading permit shall be issued until the grading
plan, endorsed by a registered architect, landscape architect, engineer or
similar design professional, is approved in writing by the City Engineer, or
Mayor’s designee.
         (d)   One-time approvals.
            1.   Utilities. Public and private utility organizations may obtain
a one-time approval from the City Engineer, or Mayor’s designee, for all
routine underground electric, water, sewer, natural gas, telephone or cable
facilities. The approval will include a utility organization and its
contractors, agents or assigns and will be permanent in nature as long as the
original approved procedures are followed.
            2.   Stockpiling materials. One-time approval, specifying a time
limit, may be obtained by public or private entities for the stockpiling of
fill material, rock, sand, gravel, aggregate or clay at particular locations,
subject to this chapter and Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
      (5)   Permit posted. A copy of the grading permit cover page shall be
posted at or near the street right-of-way line and shall be clearly visible
from the street.
   (E)   Retaining walls.
      (1)   Applicability. The requirements of this section shall apply to the
construction, installation, extension and replacement of all retaining walls of
more than four feet in height, measured from the final grade at lower-side of
wall to the top of the wall, in all zoning districts, except as exempted in
division (E)(2) below.
      (2)   Exemptions. Retaining walls that meet the following requirements
shall be exempt from these requirements:
         (a)   Retaining walls less than four feet in height;
         (b)   Retaining walls designed as part of the primary structure;
         (c)   Retaining walls shown on an approved large scale development
plan or preliminary plat; and
         (d)   Retaining walls designed as part of a public capital improvement
project.
      (3)   Permit required. A retaining wall permit shall be obtained prior to
beginning construction, extension or replacement of all applicable retaining
walls.
         (a)   Application. To obtain a retaining wall permit, a completed
application form and a plot plan (site plan) must be submitted to the Building
Inspector. The plot plan shall show:
            1.   Location of all property lines;
            2.   Location of all existing and proposed structures;
            3.   Location of existing retaining walls on or adjacent to the
property that is to remain in place, if applicable;
            4.   Portions of existing retaining wall that will be replaced, if
applicable;
            5.   Location of new retaining wall;
            6.   Location of utilities and utility easements; drainage
easements and drainageways;
            7.   Construction details to include, but not limited to,
dimensions, cross-section and footing design;
            8.   Elevations above and below the retaining wall;
            9.   A note indicating the height of the proposed retaining wall
and the material;
            10.   Engineer’s certification, if required; and
            11.   Additional information may be requested from staff after
initial review.
         (b)   Review and approval. Once all the required information is
submitted, it shall be reviewed by the Building Inspector for compliance. If
the application is approved, the applicant shall pay the permit fee and the
retaining wall permit will be issued.
         (c)   Compliance. All retaining walls shall be installed in compliance
with the retaining wall regulations and with the information shown on the
approved plot plan and retaining wall permit application form.
         (d)   Inspection required. The applicant shall contact Building
Inspections to request a final inspection upon completion of the retaining
walls. If the Building Inspector determines that the retaining wall is
constructed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the
approved retaining wall permit, a certificate of compliance will be issued. If
the retaining wall does not pass the inspection, the Building Inspector shall
prepare an inspection report detailing the deficiencies.
      (4)   Engineer certification required. An engineer’s design,
certification and construction observation shall be required in the instances
listed below. All engineering services shall be performed under the supervision
of a professional engineer registered in the state.
         (a)   Any retaining wall over four feet in height where one and one-
half times the height of the wall is either:
            1.   Greater than or equal to the building setback of an adjacent
lot; or
            2.   Such distance encroaches on any structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-674.gif]
 
         (b)   Any retaining walls over four feet in height located adjacent to
a public right-of-way.
      (5)   Private property. All retaining walls shall be located on private
property and shall be built with the consent of the property owner. The
retaining wall installer and/or property owner shall be responsible to
correctly locate property boundaries. Retaining walls shall not encroach
neighboring property lines.
      (6)   Sight triangle. Retaining walls over 24 inches constructed near
street intersections shall not be located in the “sight distance triangle”, as
defined in §
152.197 of this code of ordinances, in order to provide a reasonable degree of
traffic visibility.
      (7)   Easements.
         (a)   Utility easements. Retaining walls shall not restrict access to
utilities. Retaining walls proposed in a utility easement shall be approved on
a case-by-case basis.
         (b)   Drainage easements. Retaining walls shall not impede the normal
flow of storm water and shall not cross an open drainage channel. Retaining
walls proposed in drainage easements shall be approved on a case-by-case basis.
         (c)   Access easement. Retaining walls shall not be constructed over a
public or private access easement.
      (8)   Terraced retaining walls. If walls are terraced, the upper wall
shall be located no closer to the lower wall than one time the height of the
tallest wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-672.gif]
 
   (F)   Slopes. Slopes of 1:1 or steeper shall be required to comply with the
retaining wall regulations above.
   (G)   Construction and installation. The construction and installation of
concrete segmental retaining wall systems shall comply with Concrete Segmental
Retaining Walls System manufacturer’s specifications.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.121 OPEN SPACE.
   The Planning Commission will determine whether the open space, as shown on
the plat and/or development plan meets the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Multi-family residential. Any multifamily development is required to
provide a minimum of 250 square feet of open space per unit. No dimension to be
less than ten feet. This requirement includes large scale development and
subdivisions which are zoned for multi-family use.
   (B)   Single-family and duplex. Single-family and duplex developments are
not required to provide open space.
   (C)   Landscaping. Landscape buffers may not be used to satisfy the open
space requirement. While no specific landscaping is required, the area must be
seeded and maintained as a grassy area. The open space must be one contiguous
area unless the Planning Commission approves a variation in design. The lawn
and any additional landscaping must be maintained.
   (D)   Impervious surfaces. Planning Commission approval is required if more
than 10% of the designated open space is to be covered by an impervious
surface.
   (E)   Detention basins. Detention basins for storm water may be used if they
are designed for recreational use.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.122 DRIVEWAY DESIGN.
   (A)   Driveway width. Commercial, industrial and multi-family driveway
widths shall meet the following guidelines.
      (1)   One-way in or out. If the driveway is a one-way in or one-way out
drive, then the driveway shall be a minimum width of 16 feet and shall have
appropriate signage designating the driveway as a one-way connection.
      (2)   Two-way. For two-way access, each lane shall have a width of 12
feet and a maximum of three lanes shall be allowed. Whenever more than two
lanes are proposed, entrance and exit lanes shall be divided by a raised
median. The median shall be four feet wide and conform to the state’s Highway
and Transportation Department (AHTD) standard detail for curbed islands.
      (3)   Minor or principal arterials. Driveways that enter a minor or
principal arterial at traffic signals must have at least two outbound lanes
(one for each turning direction) of at least 12 feet in width and one inbound
lane with a 14-foot width.
   (B)   Driveway grades. Driveway grades shall conform to the recommendations
of the Center for Urban Transportation Research as shown in the table titled
“Maximum Drive Grades”. Maximum grade changes between roadway cross-slope and
driveway slope shall not exceed the grades listed below. The cross slope of the
driveway shall meet the cross-slope of the sidewalk, which shall have a slope
of no more than 2%.
 
                   Maximum Roadway Drive Grades
Collector          7%
Local              10%
Minor arterial     6%
Principal arterial 5%
 
   (C)   Sight triangle.
      (1)   Driveway approaches must be designed and located to provide an
exiting vehicle with an unobstructed view.
      (2)   Any plantings or structures in the site triangle must conform to §
152.197 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Throat length. The length of driveways or “throat length” shall be
designed in accordance with the anticipated storage length for entering and
exiting vehicles to prevent vehicles from backing into the flow of traffic on
the public street or causing unsafe conflicts with on-site circulation. General
standards appear in the table below titled “Generally Adequate Driveway Throat
Lengths”, but may vary according to the projected volume of the individual
driveway. These measures generally are acceptable for the principal access to a
property and are not intended for minor driveways. The figure titled “Driveway
Throat Length” depicts an example of adequate throat length. Variation from
these shall be permitted for good cause upon approval of the City Engineer, or
Mayor’s designee, or Planning Commission.
Generally Adequate Driveway Throat Lengths
Development Type Driveway Throat Length
Generally Adequate Driveway Throat Lengths
Development Type             Driveway Throat Length
Shopping centers             > 200,000 GLA*
   (Signalized) (800 space200’
Smaller developments         < 200,000 GLA*
   (Signalized)           75’-95’
Unsignalized driveways       40’-60’
Notes to Table:
*GLA - gross leaseable area
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b89014d88dd0aa8f2e70bc3e519db3b46ee35d00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-676.gif]
 
   (E)   Driveway design, location and construction standards.
      (1)   Minimum distance of driveway and parking from street and into
property.
         (a)   Driveway approach. Driveways shall be paved from the edge of
road with concrete, brick or stone pavers, or other solid surface to the
existing right-of-way or the right-of-way as set forth in the city’s Master
Street Plan. This requirement does not apply for approaches from unpaved roads.
         (b)   Driveways beyond right-of-way. Driveways beyond right-of-way may
be paved or unpaved.
      (2)   Unpaved driveway maintenance requirements. If an unpaved driveway
is not adequately maintained to keep the area from becoming rutted, muddy and/
or soil from being blown or washed away and is identified as a violation of
this provision, such driveway shall be immediately remedied by the property
owner.
      (3)   Driveway grading and drainage. The driveway shall be graded in such
a way to dispose of surface water.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.123 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The regulations for outdoor lighting are intended
to:
      (1)   Minimize light pollution for the enjoyment of Holiday Island
citizens and visitors;
      (2)   Limit the degradation of the nighttime visual environment by
production of unsightly and dangerous glare;
      (3)   Minimize urban sky-glow to help protect the scenic view of the
night sky;
      (4)   Reduce light trespass onto neighboring properties; and
      (5)   Allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures.
   (B)   Applicability. The outdoor lighting regulations apply to:
      (1)   All new construction, except single-family and duplex residential
uses;
      (2)   All new outdoor lighting fixture installations, except single-
family and duplex residential uses; and
      (3)   All replacement fixtures, in cases of total replacement.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following conditions are exempt from these
requirements:
      (1)   The temporary use of low wattage or low voltage lighting for public
festivals, celebrations, and the observance of holidays are exempt from
regulation, except where they create a hazard or nuisance from glare. Temporary
use permits are required for commercial activities such as carnivals. Where
possible, lighting should be cutoff;
      (2)   Temporary emergency lighting, used by police, firefighting or
medical personnel for as long as the emergency exists;
      (3)   Routine maintenance, including changing the lamp ballast, starter,
photo control, fixture housing, lens and other required components;
      (4)   Airport lighting provided the owner or occupant demonstrates that
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations can only be met through
the use of lighting that does not comply with this chapter;
      (5)   Neon lights only as permitted by the sign regulations;
      (6)   Illuminated signs only as permitted by the sign regulations; and
      (7)   The outdoor illumination of digital signs, specifically excluding
billboards by the sign regulations.
   (D)   Prohibitions. The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes
is prohibited.
   (E)   Standards.
      (1)   Cutoff required. All non-exempt outdoor light fixtures with an
initial output greater than or equal to 2,000 lumens shall be cutoff or full
cutoff, as defined by IESNA.
      (2)   Installation. All outdoor light fixtures that have cutoff
restrictions shall be installed and maintained in such a manner as to be
horizontal to the ground so that the cutoff characteristics of the fixture are
maintained.
      (3)   Shielding. Beyond the cutoff requirements in division (E)(1) above,
all light fixtures shall be located, aimed or shielded so as to minimize light
trespass across property boundaries. Where applicable, all commercial
installations shall utilize house side shielding to minimize light trespass on
residential properties.
   (F)   Special use standards.
      (1)   Landscape/facade lights. Landscape and facade lighting fixtures
shall be selected, located, aimed and shielded so that direct illumination is
focused solely on the building facade, plantings and other intended site
feature and away from adjoining properties and the public street right-of-way.
Down-lighting is required.
      (2)   Recreational facilities.
         (a)   Cutoff exemption.
            1.   Recreational facilities are exempt from the cutoff requirement
in division (E)(1) above, however, the use of cutoff fixtures is encouraged.
            2.   The shielding requirement in division (E)(3) above is
applicable to recreational facilities.
         (b)   Glare control. All outdoor recreational facilities lighting
fixtures shall be equipped with a glare control package (louvers, shields or
similar devices). The fixture shall be aimed so that the beams are directed and
fall within the primary playing or performance area.
         (c)   Hours. All activity and lights shall be turned off one hour
after the end of the last event.
      (3)   Canopy structures. Canopy lights, such as service station lighting,
shall be fully recessed or fully shielded so as to ensure that no light source
is visible from or causes glare on public rights-of-way or adjacent properties.
      (4)   Flags. Governmental flags should be taken down at sunset to avoid
the need for lighting. If flags remain up overnight, they should be lighted.
Up-lighting of governmental flags should have a maximum lumen output of 1,300
lumens with a cone of light directed on the flag itself. Down-lighting of flag
poles is encouraged.
   (G)   Non-conforming outdoor light fixtures.
      (1)   All non-conforming outdoor light fixtures lawfully installed prior
to and operable on the effective date of this chapter are exempt from all
outdoor lighting requirements.
      (2)   In the event that an outdoor lighting fixture is abandoned or
damaged to the point of requiring repairs for safe operation, the repaired or
replacement fixture shall comply with the provisions these regulations.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.124 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES (WCF).
   The following guidelines shall govern the aesthetics of all towers and
antennas; provided, however, that, the City Engineer may waive these
requirements where it is determined that the goals of this chapter would be
better served thereby.
   (A)   Lighting. Lighting of tower and antenna shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Towers shall be artificially illuminated if required by the FAA or
other applicable authority or the governing authority. If artificial lighting
is required, the lighting design and intensity chosen should be that which
complies with the applicable guidelines, yet causes the least disturbance to
the surrounding and nearby properties.
      (2)   Security lighting or motion-activated lighting may be used around
the base of a tower and within the telecommunication facility; provided that,
the lighting is shielded in such a way that no light is directed towards
adjacent properties or rights-or-way.
   (B)   Stealth technologies. This section encourages creative design measures
to camouflage facilities by integrating them with existing buildings and among
other existing uses. Based on this, the color and design of towers and antennas
shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Towers shall be maintained with a galvanized steel finish, wood
laminate or, subject to any applicable FAA standards, be painted a neutral
color so that visual obtrusiveness is minimized.
      (2)   The design of buildings and related structures within a
telecommunication facility shall, to the extent possible, utilize building
materials, colors, screening and landscaping that will camouflage and blend the
tower and related facilities into the natural and/or surrounding environment.
      (3)   If an antenna is to be attached to a supporting structure other
than a tower, the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment
must be of a color closely compatible with the color of the supporting
structure.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
**** ADDRESSING ****
§ 153.135 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes a system for assigning street names and address
numbers which will assist the public and private sector in locating individual
streets, buildings and places in an easy and logical manner and for the
protection of public health and safety of all persons living, working or
visiting in the city.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.136 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Final plats. All final plats shall be pre-addressed. Large scale
developments with more than suite shall be addressed by the lot’s common
address along with the individual suite number (i.e., 120 Woodside Lane, Suite
A, Suite B and the like).
   (B)   Odd and even numbers. Address numbers shall be even on the north and
east sides of the street and odd on the south and west sides of the street.
Address numbers for unplatted residential and all other non-residential
buildings shall be determined by calculation. The distance from the center of
the driveway to the last corner or grid shall be measured to get a location
number. The location number is then divided by 5.28 to get the address. If the
block number is 1200 and the location number divided by 5.28 is 43, the address
is 1243 or 1244 depending upon which side of the street the building is
located. Address numbers shall be beginning by the number grid in which the
property is located.
   (C)   New residential subdivisions. In new residential subdivisions, each
standard-sized lot shall be given a preassigned street number by the Planning
Commission upon final plat approval. All pre-addresses shall be reflected on
the final plat at the time it is recorded. Address numbers will be assigned to
large lots relative to their capacity to be divided into two or more minimum
sized lots for the minimum width allowed by
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances. Address numbers shall be assigned to
lots in the appropriate odd or even numerical sequence relative to their
location, such as 201, 203, 205 and the like.
   (D)   Diagonal streets.
      (1)   Diagonal streets which generally run 45 degrees or less from a
north/south line will be numbered by the north/south grid and those more than
45 degrees from the north/south line will be numbered by the east/west grid.
Curving streets will be assigned numbers based upon the grid of their greatest
length.
      (2)   For instance, if the beginning is more south than east of the end,
then the north/south grid will be used.
 
Numbering for Diagonal Streets
From North/South Line          Grid to Be Used
Generally 45 degrees or less   North/south
Generally more than 45 degrees East/west
 
   (E)   Loop street and cul-de-sacs. On loop streets and cul-de-sac streets
address numbering shall begin at the entrance nearest the grid centerline.
Address numbers shall increase or decrease relative to their initial movement
from the grid centerline and continue to the opposite end as if the street were
in a straight line. Block number changes will be made every 528 feet with odd
and even numbers remaining on the same side of the street as they began.
   (F)   Apartments.
      (1)   On public streets. Apartment buildings on public streets shall be
assigned individual addresses. Apartments clustered about a central parking
area immediately facing a public street shall also be assigned separate street
addresses.
      (2)   On private streets. Apartment buildings not located on public
streets will be assigned a private street designator. These apartment buildings
shall be assigned individual addresses. In these instances, each building is
lettered A, B, C and the like, but a central postal facility for all apartments
must be located so it is readily accessible to a mail carrier for the public
street serving the complex.
      (3)   Building identification. Each apartment must be identified on the
exterior by block grid number. The numbers shall be in sequence increasing from
the centerline. Apartment buildings shall have the block number as part of each
apartment number 1702 Apt. #11. Apartments in lettered buildings shall have the
building letter as part of each apartment number, such as B-210. When units are
on multiple floors, ground floor numbers shall be in the 100 series (101, 102,
103 and the like), second floor in the 200 series (201, 202, 203 and the like).
If a common hallway is used for several apartments, the external hallway
entrance to each apartment shall contain a list of the apartments served. When
addressing townhouses and other buildings containing units separately owned,
each address shall be placed upon the principal external entryway to the unit.
      (4)   Individual units. The official address for each apartment on a
public street shall be the building address followed by the apartment number,
such as “329 Woodview Lane, Apt # 11” or “329 Woodview Lane # 11”. Addresses
for units in apartment buildings not on a public street shall include the block
number, private street designator and apartment number. The official address
for each apartment building not on a public street will be “1702 Island Manor
Lane Apt # 11” or “702 Island Manor Lane # 11”. Manufactured housing parks on
private streets shall be addressed in the same manner as apartment buildings
located on private streets.
   (G)   Suites. Suite numbers (odd or even) shall be determined by its parent
building’s number and will increase in an odd or even manner according to the
layout location from the centroid. In the event of a suite split, the newly
created suite shall be assigned the next lowest available number. Example: a
building with the odd number 201 shall start with suite 1, 3, 5, 7 and the
like. Buildings with an even number (202) shall have even suite numbers (2, 4,
6 and the like). If there was a split in the odd building 201 between suites 3
and 5, the newly created suite would be numbered suite 4.
   (H)   Corner lots. Structures on corner lots shall not be given dual
addresses. The structure on a corner lot shall be addressed off of the street
where the front entrance is located. If the structure appears to have more than
one front entrance then the structure shall be addressed off of the street with
the shortest frontage.
   (I)   Townhouse. Each unit within a townhome development which is on an
individual lot shall have a separate address number and not a unit number.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
§ 153.137 SIGNS, NUMBERS AND SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Public and private street signs shall be installed at the expense of
the original developer and thereafter maintained by the city.
   (B)   Private street signs shall be required. They shall conform to the
public street sign standards, except shall have a blue background with white
letters.
   (C)   Only street name signs which are authorized by the City Council shall
be installed within the planning area boundary of the city. All street name
signs, public or private, found not to conform with this subsection shall be
removed by the city. Non-conforming, damaged or deteriorated public street
signs shall be replaced as soon as possible by the city.
   (D)   Requests for private street signs on existing streets shall be
submitted to the Building Official.
   (E)   Replacement of address numbers is required within 15 days after
written notice to the owner or occupant. New and replacement numbers must be
placed so that they will be clearly visible from the street of primary access
to the building.
   (F)   Address numbers shall be a minimum of four inches high with dark
reflective block letters on a white background or reverse contrasts and shall
be visible from the street. The numbers shall be placed as near as possible to
the primary entrance of the building and preferably above the entrance doorway.
If building is not visible from the street, address numbers should be placed at
the street entry to the building. Appeals concerning numbers shall be made to
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   When, in the opinion of city staff, a violation of this chapter
exists, and a subdivider who has not complied with the requirements and
procedures set forth herein attempts to proceed with construction work, or
attempts to convey title to any lot or lots before obtaining final plat
approval, or otherwise is in substantial violation of these regulations, the
appropriate city staff shall, within 15 days of becoming aware of a possible
violation, issue a written order to the alleged violator.
      (2)   The written order shall be by certified mail, restricted delivery
and shall set out the specific violations alleged.
      (3)   City staff shall also, at the time of issuance of the written
order, give notice to the City Attorney of such action.
      (4)   If the alleged violator, within seven days of receipt of said
order, does not cease and desist from activities not in conformance with these
regulations, the city staff shall, within seven additional days, transmit to
the City Attorney an affidavit setting out the nature of the violation.
      (5)   The City Attorney shall take appropriate measures to enforce these
regulations, including, but not limited to, seeking injunctive relief from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person, firm or
corporation that violates any provision of these regulations or amendments
thereto shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction shall be fined not
less than $50, nor more than $250, for each offense.
      (2)   Each day that any violation of these rules and regulations are in
effect shall constitute a separate offense and be subject to additional fines.
      (3)   Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by law or in
equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent unlawful
construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation, to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, and these
remedies shall be in addition to the monetary penalties described above.
(Ord. 2025-008, passed 10-16-2025)
CHAPTER 154: PUBLIC WAY REGULATIONS
Section
Road and Bridge Regulations
   
154.01   Road construction specifications
   
154.02   Water and sewer system extension specifications
   
154.03   Double seal rock and oil program for existing unimproved roads
   
154.04   Culvert installation and maintenance
   
154.05   Roads dedicated as public right-of-way
   
154.06   Installations and displays on roads
   
154.07   Cutting or damaging roads
   
154.08   Snow removal
   
154.09   Driveway transition installations
**** ROAD AND BRIDGE REGULATIONS ****
§ 154.01 ROAD CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Roads constructed prior to the enactment of this chapter are grandfathered
in an “as built” condition relative to width and ditches until such time as
major reconstruction of the road is approved.
   (A)   Road base construction.
      (1)   The road base for all streets and roads shall be a mixture of rock
and dirt, rolled and vibrated to a minimum compaction of 90% standard proctor
density.
      (2)   The road base shall be sufficiently crowned to remove water to the
sides of the road.
      (3)   All roadways are to be well drained with ditches (except where
curbs and gutters are to be installed) constructed to such width and depth as
to carry drainage from the roadway and adjacent property at an elevation below
the compacted road base.
      (4)   Culverts crossing the roadway are to be installed prior to
compaction and bedded in Class VII crushed limestone rock.
      (5)   All roads with water and/or sewer lines within the roadway shall
have a Class VII crushed limestone base installed to road subgrade after
initial construction is accepted by the city.
   (B)   Road surfacing:
      (1)   The traversable surface of unimproved roads shall be a minimum of
24 feet in width.
      (2)   The subgrade of unimproved roads shall be six inches of capping
material (consisting of 60% gravel, three-fourths of an inch to one and one-
half of an inch diameter, and 40% clay) graded, watered and rolled to a smooth
surface.
      (3)   The driving surface of improved roads (chip and seal, asphalt or
concrete) shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width with two-foot shoulders.
      (4)   All improved roads shall require a subbase zone material above the
compacted road subgrade consisting of Class VII crushed limestone rock (one
inch with fines) to a minimum depth of four inches, graded, watered, and rolled
to a smooth surface to a modified proctor density of 95%.
      (5)   Improved roads which are to be surfaced with chip and seal shall
require an approved prime coat with two layers of limestone, with each layer
consisting of an average application of 24 pounds per square yard of Class II
crushed limestone chips and 0.35 gallons per square yard of CRS-2P or equal
oil.
      (6)   Improved roads to be surfaced with hot-mix asphalt shall require an
approved prime coat with a minimum depth of two inches of asphaltic material
applied by a lay down machine at a minimum temperature of 165º Fahrenheit.
      (7)   Improved roads to be surfaced with concrete shall require a minimum
depth of five inches of concrete, with the air entrained having a minimum
compressive strength of 4000 PSI and joints on 15- foot maximum spacing.
      (8)   When improved roads are to be drained with curbs and gutters, the
curb and gutter shall be constructed with a standard AH&D section.
      (9)   All road surfaces shall maintain sufficient crown to remove water
to the sides of the road.
      (10)   All storm sewer piping shall be of corrugated metal pipe, 16-inch
gauge to 24-inch gauge or larger as a minimum.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   All aspects of road construction shall be independently inspected
by the appropriate city personnel, who shall maintain a separate inspection
log.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to make any changes in the
specifications or require additional measures as deemed necessary to assure
proper integrity of the road.
      (3)   No road shall be accepted into the city’s road inventory without a
consensus approval of the City Council and the Road Department Supervisor or
other appropriate staff personnel.
   (D)   Mowing and vegetation control.
      (1)   Ditches and street rights of way will be mowed a minimum of twice
annually. Fire hydrants are to be easily visible and unobstructed by
vegetation. A minimum of an 18-inch clear zone will be maintained in accordance
with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials’
(AASHTO) Roadside Design Guide of 2006.
      (2)   The city may mow any state highway right of way not regularly mowed
by ARDOT.
      (3)   Tree limbs and brush are to be trimmed back to maintain a 13-foot
clearance over the roadway. Brush is to be trimmed back to prevent impeding
driver vision at intersections.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.02 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM EXTENSION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Water system extensions.
      (1)   All valves, fittings, hydrants, service lines and equipment shall
be of the same type as presently in use or compatible with the existing system.
      (2)   All water mains and lines shall be of the proper class/rated PVC
pipe (plastic with bell fittings), except where ductile iron pipe is required
by code or law. All non-metallic water lines shall have a tracer wire installed
in the trench with the water line.
      (3)   All water lines shall be buried a minimum of 30 inches, with a
minimum bedding of six inches on the bottom and a minimum bedding of 12 inches
on top of the line; bedding material shall be Class I or Class II material with
a maximum particle size of one and one-half inches.
      (4)   Whenever concrete backing is called for, plastic sheeting shall be
placed between the pipe, fittings, fixtures, bolts and the concrete.
      (5)   Pressure reducing valves shall be installed as required to make the
new system compatible with the existing water system.
      (6)   All water lines will be pressure tested to 150% of normal working
pressure and sterilized prior to connecting them to the existing system and
shall be subject to additional testing by city personnel.
      (7)   All plans shall be approved by the city public works staff and the
State Health Department.
   (B)   Sewer system extensions.
      (1)   All valves, fittings, service lines and equipment shall be of the
same type as presently in use or compatible with the existing system.
      (2)   All sewer mains and lines shall be SDR 35 PVC pipe (plastic with
bell fitting), except where ductile iron pipe is required by code or law.
      (3)   All sewer lines shall have a minimum bedding of six inches on the
bottom and a minimum bedding of 12 inches on the top of the line; bedding
material shall be Class I or Class II material with a maximum particle size of
one and one-half inches.
      (4)   Whenever concrete backing is called for, plastic sheeting shall be
placed between the pipe, fittings and bolts and the concrete.
      (5)   Combination air, vacuum/relief valves shall be installed in forced
sewer mains as required.
      (6)   Manholes shall be installed at a maximum of every 400 feet.
      (7)   All sewer lift stations must be of the same type as presently in
use within the existing system (Goman/Rupp, Smith Loveless); the GPMs of such
lift stations must be compatible with the receiving collection system and lift
stations. Whenever the GPMs of proposed lift stations exceed that to the
receiving lift station(s), it shall be the responsibility of the developer to
work out with the city the necessary modifications to the existing system to
accommodate the volume of the system extension.
      (8)   All sewer system extensions shall be air tested and mandrel tested
according to standard methods, and all plans shall be approved by the city
public works staff and the State Health Department.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   All aspects of water and sewer extension installations shall be
independently inspected by the appropriate city personnel, who shall maintain a
separate inspection log.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to make any changes in the
specifications or require additional measures as deemed necessary to assure
proper integrity and compatibility with existing systems.
      (3)   No water or sewer system extension shall be connected to the
existing systems or accepted without the approval of the Mayor or his or her
designated representative.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.03 DOUBLE SEAL ROCK AND OIL PROGRAM FOR EXISTING UNIMPROVED ROADS.
   (A)   It was determined to be in the best interest of the property owner to
adopt a voluntary double seal rock and oil program. The double seal rock and
oil program will be on a voluntary basis, requiring a petition of interest from
the abutting property owners. The cost of the street improvement will be on a
50/50 share basis, with the abutting property owners and the city sharing the
cost equally.
   (B)   The cost of the total project will be determined by the city, and the
property owners 50% share will be deposited in full in an escrow account with
the city prior to the start of construction. The street improvement will
consist of base repair, base stabilization and double seal rock and oil
surface. Thereafter, the street improvement will be maintained by the city.
This program is subject to and may be amended by budgetary constraints.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.04 CULVERT INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In order to assure that a culvert will not impede the flow of water
traversing through a ditch, the Road Department Supervisor must approve all
culvert installations. For a fee to be determined at the time of issuance of a
building permit, the city may purchase and install the culvert. The fee shall
cover at a minimum all the material and labor costs to do the installation.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the property owner to maintain culvert
openings to be free of obstruction from debris so as to not block the flow of
water.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.05 ROADS DEDICATED AS PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The following portions of road (totaling approximately 14 miles) are
accepted as being dedicated to the city as a public right-of-way:
   (A)   Approximately 4,038 linear feet of Cedar Lane commencing at Twin Peak
Drive;
   (B)   Approximately 760 linear feet of Cottonwood Lane commencing at Table
Rock Drive;
   (C)   Approximately 2,551 linear feet of Danube Drive extending from Oak
Lane to Table Rock Drive;
   (D)   Approximately 857 linear feet of Elm Lane commencing at Table Rock
Drive;
   (E)   Approximately one thousand two hundred and sixty-two (750) linear feet
of Forest Park Drive (aka Forest Park Avenue) extending from Parkwood Drive to
the western property line of Unit 201B;
   (F)   Approximately 2,631 linear feet of Haddock Lane commencing at Wild
Turkey Drive;
   (G)   Approximately 8,290 linear feet of Hawk Lane from Eagle Drive
commencing at Wild Turkey Drive;
   (H)   Approximately 264 linear feet of Hawk Lane from Hawk Drive and
Commencing at Holiday Island Drive;
   (I)   Approximately 1,109 linear feet of Hickory Drive extending from Table
Rock Drive to Danube Drive and Hickory Circle commencing at Danube Drive;
   (J)   Approximately 4,369 linear feet of Table Rock Drive (lower section)
extending from Elm Lane to Stateline Drive;
   (K)   Approximately 1,112 linear feet of Oak Lane commencing at Table Rock
Drive;
   (L)   Approximately 1,911 linear feet of Parkcliff Drive extending from Park
Drive to Highway 23;
   (M)   Approximately 3,610 linear feet of Park Drive commencing at Highway
23;
   (N)   Approximately 870 linear feet of Parkwood Drive extending from Highway
23 to southeast corner of Unit 215 - Block 1 - Lot 2;
   (O)   Approximately 825 linear feet of Pivot Rock Lane commencing at Twin
Peak Drive;
   (P)   Approximately 9,631 linear feet of Starlite Avenue extending from
Stateline Drive to Sunrise Avenue;
   (Q)   Approximately 15,682 linear feet of Stateline Drive from Holiday
Island Drive and commencing at the State line;
   (R)   Approximately 6,984 linear feet of Summit Drive commencing at
Stateline Drive;
   (S) Approximately 1,137 linear feet of Sycamore Lane commencing at Twin Peak
Drive;
   (T)   Approximately 4,897 linear feet of Venus Avenue extending from
Stateline Drive to Farm Road 2300; and
   (U)   Approximately 1,595 linear feet of West Bluff Lane commencing at Park
Drive.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.06 INSTALLATIONS AND DISPLAYS ON ROADS.
   (A)   The following govern signs and displays in Holiday Island:
      (1)   Outdoor advertising, A.C.A. §§ 27-74-201 et seq.; and
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Regulations §§
152.180 through
152.184.
   (B)   Posting or displaying any signs or notices, including, but not limited
to, real estate signs, political signs or advertisements, yard or garage sale
signs, or directional signs to sales, meetings, reunions or other types of
gatherings, on city rights-of-way or on city property is prohibited.
   (C)    Installing street and security lighting shall adhere to the
provisions set out in the Holiday Island Planning and Zoning Regulations for
street light restrictions in
Chapter 153. Installation of Carroll County Electric security lighting on power
poles is allowed but requires approval from the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.07 CUTTING OR DAMAGING ROADS.
   (A)   Applicability of article.
      (1)   This section is applicable in its entirety to those roads where
permanent water and sewer mains have been installed and which have been
restored to their planned subsurface, grade and surface.
      (2)   The cutting and restoration of roads not covered by division (A)(1)
above will be the subject of separate negotiations with the city. Normally,
these roads are in or adjacent to unrecorded units in which required permanent
water or sewer lines have not been installed. For such roads, the restoration
criteria and the posting of cash and surety bond prescribed in division (C)
below may be changed to facilitate and coordinate the installation of
utilities.
   (B)   General-road cuts.
      (1)   The cutting of city roads will normally be necessary to connect
private water and sewer services to the water and sewer mains or repair the
same and to install or repair underground utilities (telephone, power lines and
the like).
      (2)   No person or persons, excluding city employees, shall cut a road
until a permit is issued by the Road Department Supervisor or their designated
representative and the pertinent provisions of this section are met.
      (3)   Permits granted will be valid only for the specific cut requested
and will expire 60 days after the date on the permit.
      (4)   The person or persons making the cut will restore the road to its
original state or pay the costs for such restoration unless otherwise approved
by the City Road Department Supervisor.
      (5)   Any person or persons breaking or damaging the cables, pipes or
lines of city or of any other company, corporation or person shall be liable
for the repair of such breaks or damages.
   (C)   Permit requirements for road cuts.
      (1) A permit shall be required for road cuts done by non-city
departments. The request for the permit shall be in writing and shall provide
the following information:
         (a)   The person, company, corporation or utility requiring the road
cut;
         (b)   The reason for the cut;
         (c)   The road and location of the proposed cut;
         (d)   The nature of the road surface(s) involved;
         (e)   That the person or persons making the cut will either restore
the road to its original state or assume the liability for such restoration
costs; and
         (f)   That the person or persons making the cut will comply with all
the pertinent provisions of this section.
      (2)   Excluding the city, the person, firm, company, corporation or
utility making a cut of 100 linear feet of trench or less in a road shall post
a $500 cash or surety bond with the city. A cut of more than 100 linear feet of
trench shall require the applicant to post a $500, plus $5 per foot beyond 100
feet cash or surety bond with the city. The purpose of the bonds shall be to
secure compliance with the pertinent provisions of this section, including:
         (a)   Backfilling and tamping cuts;
         (b)   Any required tests and repairs associated with backfilling and
tamping; and
         (c)   Repair or replacement of road surfaces.
      (3)   The cash or surety bond described in division (C)(2) above will be
returned to the applicant upon request after the obligations of the permit in
question are completed.
   (D)   Requirements to restore road cuts.
      (1)   All road cuts on roads where permanent water and sewer mains have
been installed shall be backfilled with crushed stone material (SB-2 or equal)
to the original road grade and be tamped thoroughly by the permit holder to
bring the backfill to conform to the base compaction of the road.
      (2)   When applicable, the original asphalt or concrete road surface will
be added by the permit holder to bring the road surface back as closely as
possible to its original condition.
      (3)   Within ten days after making the cut, the permit holder will
complete the backfilling and tamping of the trench and will provide the city
with a certificate from a registered engineer, or some other person (such as
the City Road Department Supervisor) or firm approved for such purpose by the
city, certifying that the backfilling and tamping of the trench has been
completed in accordance with the standards and requirements set out in this
section. Should the engineer or the city question compliance with the
specifications, a density test shall be made, and the findings shall be
conclusive.
      (4)   If the findings show that the permit holder is at fault, the city
will restore the road to its original state. The cost of this repair or
replacement shall be borne by the permit holder and shall be paid within 30
days from the date of the receipt of the bill by the permit holder. Failure to
pay such costs will be the basis for appropriate legal action by the city.
      (5)   The costs to be charged for the replacement of gravel or pavement
on the roads will be fixed by the city on the basis of labor and materials
costs prevailing at the time that the repair or replacement work is done. The
city shall compute the costs for said repair and will submit a bill to the
permit holder. The bill shall state:
         (a)   The amount and basis of the costs; and
         (b)   That failure to pay fees beyond the cash or surety bond deposit
within 30 days will result in appropriate legal action against the permit
holder.
   (E)   General-roadway damage protection.
      (1)   All building permit applicants shall be liable for any damage to
the public roadways resulting from construction activities or from construction
vehicles or equipment, whether or not the building permit applicant causes the
damage directly or the damage is caused by subtrades, delivery vendors and the
like.
      (2)   All building permit applicants for new construction, placement of
manufactured homes and additions to existing structures shall apply for a
“roadway damage permit” which shall be issued by the Building Inspector or his
or her designated representative in conjunction with the application for a
building permit. The Building Inspector is granted the authority to waive the
roadway damage permit for additions to existing structures when warranted based
on size and/or type of construction.
      (3)   The purpose of the roadway damage permit is to ensure that all
city-owned roadway structures, including the road surface, drainage structures
and adjacent rights-of-way, are protected and/or restored to their original
condition upon the completion of any construction activities on private
property.
      (4)   Roadway damage permits will only be valid for the specific
construction project applied for, will expire concurrently with the building
permit, and are non-transferable.
      (5)   Tracked construction vehicles and/or equipment are prohibited on
any city-owned paved surfaces. Loading and unloading such equipment is
restricted exclusively to private property. The Building Inspector can make an
exception if provisions are made to protect the road surface.
      (6)   Storing materials on city property is prohibited. Any stored
material may be removed at the applicant’s expense without prior notice.
      (7)   Discharging concrete waste in or on city roads, rights-of-way or
adjacent lots is prohibited. The cost of cleanup for such violations will be
assessed from the applicant’s deposit(s).
   (F)   Permit requirements for roadway damage protection. Applications with
the city for a roadway damage permit must be in writing and must state:
      (1)   The person, company, corporation or responsible entity requiring
the permit;
      (2)   The reason for the request for the permit;
      (3)   The unit, block and lot numbers of the proposed project;
      (4)   The nature of the road surface(s) involved adjacent to the proposed
construction project;
      (5)   That all measures will be taken to protect all city road surfaces,
drainage structures and adjacent rights-of-way, and that the applicant assumes
the liability for all restoration costs;
      (6)   That the applicant will comply with all the pertinent provisions of
this chapter; and
      (7)   A road damage permit cash deposit is set at $500 and is refundable
upon completion of the project and road damage, if any, has been repaired.
Inspection is to be done by the Road Department Supervisor.
   (G)   Requirements to restore roadway damage.
      (1)   Upon approval and issuance of the roadway damage permit, the Road
Department Supervisor or his or her designated representative will perform an
on-site inspection of the construction site and will document a photographic
record of all city facilities to be impacted by the construction project.
      (2)   Periodic inspections will be made during the course of the
construction project, and any damage to city facilities will be documented.
      (3)   At the time the applicant completes the construction project, a
final inspection shall be requested. Any and all documented damage shall be
presented to the applicant with an assigned cost for repairs and/or
restoration, and said costs, if any, shall be deducted from the cash deposit to
be used for all repairs and/or restoration.
      (4)   Any and all repair costs in excess of the deposit must be paid by
the applicant prior to the issuance of a permanent water meter.
      (5)   The city will make any and all repairs of the documented damage.
   (H)   Variance. The City Council reserves the right to issue a written
variance to this section when justified.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.08 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Snow removal plan. Snow removal procedures will normally be
implemented by the Mayor and the Road Department Supervisor when two to three
inches of snow have accumulated. The snow routes will normally be designated
and plowed in accordance with traffic volume and classification.
   (B)   Primary snow removal routes. The primary plow routes are as follows:
      (1)   Fire stations No. 1 and No. 3;
      (2)   The Eureka Springs school bus routes, currently identified as:
         (a)   Country Club Drive, from Holiday Island Drive to Wild Turkey
Drive;
         (b)   Elm Lane, from Table Rock Drive to end;
         (c)   Highway 23, from Holiday Island Drive to Park Drive;
         (d)   Holiday Island Drive, from Highway 23 to Leatherwood Lane;
         (e)   Leatherwood Drive, from Holiday Island Drive to Holiday Island
Drive;
         (f)   Parkcliff Drive, from Park Drive to end;
         (g)   Park Drive, from Highway 23 to Parkcliff Drive;
         (h)   Shields Drive, from Woodsdale Drive to end;
         (i)   Stateline Drive, from Woodsdale Drive to Countyline Road;
         (j)   Table Rock Drive, from Stateline Drive to Stateline Drive;
         (k)   Valley Drive, from Wild Turkey Drive to Walnut Avenue;
         (l)   Wild Turkey Drive, from Country Club Drive to Stateline Drive;
and
         (m)   Woodsdale Drive, from the city limits to Shields Drive.
      (3)   Medical emergency routes, which include established helipad and/or
medical routes requested by ambulance, fire or law enforcement personnel.
   (C)   Secondary snow removal routes. Secondary plow routes and gravel roads
with structures will be plowed in the order of plow location when the primary
routes are completed.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
§ 154.09 DRIVEWAY TRANSITION INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Installation. The city Road Department will provide driveway
transition paving installations on an appointment basis to the property owners
of the city. The city Road Department Supervisor will be responsible for the
administration of the program; installations will be completed by in-house city
Road Department crews.
   (B)   Charges. The charge for this service will be based upon both the
square-foot cost of premix asphalt, and an hourly rate for labor and equipment
usage. The Road Department Supervisor, on an annual basis, will establish the
cost per ton for premix asphalt, and the hourly rate for labor and equipment
usage. Premix asphalt will be quoted at the city’s purchase cost, and labor/
equipment charges will be based upon the Road Department’s average labor rates
and estimated equipment usage costs.
   (C)   Estimates. Upon receiving a request for an estimate from a Holiday
Island property owner, the Road Department Supervisor will measure the square
footage of the project and provide an estimate of cost to the property owner.
Once receiving consent from the property owner to complete the work, the Road
Department will schedule the installation. Upon satisfactory completion of the
work, the property owner will be billed through the City Office based on the
agreed-upon quote.
   (D)   Waiver of liability. The city reserves the right to require a “waiver
of liability” from the property owner to protect the city from any incidental
damage to private property.
   (E)   Denial of requests. The city reserves the right to deny a request to
install a driveway transition, based upon the size of the job, scheduling
conflicts or for any other reason as determined by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2026-007, passed 5-26-2026)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
II.   STREET DEDICATIONS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2023-012 5-4-2023    Authorizing an amended District Court cost sharing
                     agreement for the city
2023-027 12-19-2023  Authorizing an interlocal agreement for road maintenance
                     for the city for 2024
                     Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the Suburban
2023-028 12-21-2023  Improvement District to provide fire protection services
                     to the city for 2024
                     Authorizing an interlocal agreement with the Suburban
2025-020 12-16-2025  Improvement District to provide fire protection services
                     to the city for 2026
 
 
TABLE II: STREET DEDICATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Accepting the dedication of certain portions Stateline
2022-008 4-19-2022   Drive and Hawk Drive from the Suburban Improvement
                     District
2025-011 10-28-2025  Accepting the dedication of certain roads and portions of
                     roads from the Suburban Improvement District for the city
 
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2023-011 4-18-2023   Amending the zoning map and zoning map table (updating and
                     reprinting)
2024-010 7-16-2024   Amending the zoning map and zoning map table (updating and
                     reprinting)
2024-011 8-20-2024   Amending the zoning map table (updating and reprinting)
2025-012 10-16-2025  Amending the zoning map (rezoning real property from C-
                     3 General Commercial to R-3 Multi-Family Residential)
2025-013 10-16-2025  Amending the zoning map (rezoning real property from
                     unassigned to C-3 General Commercial)
2025-014 10-16-2025  Amending the zoning map (rezoning real property from
                     unassigned to I-L Light Industrial)
2025-016 11-18-2025  Amending the zoning map (correcting address numbers,
                     updating HICPC designations)
                     Amending the City of Holiday Island UBL (UNIT-BLOCK-LOT)
2026-005 3-17-2026   Zoning Map Table (as adopted in 152.001 and 152.057) by
                     removing column HISID Owned
                     Amending the City of Holiday Island UBL (UNIT-BLOCK-LOT)
                     Zoning Map Table (as adopted in 152.001 and 152.057) by
2026-12  6-16-2026   naming Forest Park Drive as the correct name for the
                     street beginning at Parkwood Drive and extending to the
                     west property line of Lot 201B, Block 1, Unit 201
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arkansas Code Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARKANSAS CODE ANNOTATED
A.C.A. Cites Code Section
A.C.A. Cites                       Code Section
3-1-101 et seq.                    111.01
8-4-101 et seq.                    91.13
8-6-201 et seq.                    50.01
14-1-501 et seq.                   151.25
14-2-204                           30.18
14-42-107(b)                       31.02
14-44-114                          30.18
14-44-115                          30.18
14-44-103(b)(1)(A)                 30.17
14-54-901                          91.09
14-54-901 et seq.                  91.01
14-54-903                          91.04;
                                   91.10
14-54-904                          91.06
14-54-1602                         151.07
14-55-203                          10.15
14-55-504                          10.99
Title 14, Chapter 56, Subchapter 4 30.33;
                                   152.002
14-56-204                          151.07
14-56-204(d)(4)                    152.076
14-56-401 et seq.                  153.005
14-56-401 14-56-426                153.002;
                                   153.004
14-56-404(a)(2)                    30.33
14-56-406(a)(2)                    30.33
14-56-404(a)(1)                    30.33
14-58-104                          31.01
14-58-303                          31.01
14-200-101(b)                      50.03
17-30-101                          151.25
17-15-102                          151.25
18-13-101 et seq.                  153.007
18-14-301 et seq.                  112.01
20-19-305                          90.03
20-25-101 et seq.                  151.07;
                                   151.30
20-25-102                          151.07
21-8-703                           30.33
25-19-101 25-19-110                30.18
26-77-102(b)                       110.01
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2021-001 3-23-2021   30.16
2021-003 5-18-2021   30.02
2021-009 8-24-2021   32.01 
                     32.04
2021-007 10-19-2021  11.01
2021-011 10-19-2021  150.01
2021-012 10-19-2021  150.02
2021-015 11-30-2021  30.17
2022-002 1-18-2022   30.32;
                     30.33
2022-008 4-19-2022   TSO Table II
2022-011 7-19-2022   11.03
2022-015 10-4-2022   30.15
2022-012 11-22-2022  30.31
2023-011 4-18-2023   TSO Table III
2023-012 5-4-2023    TSO Table I
2023-017 8-15-2023   31.01 
                     31.04
2023-019 8-15-2023   30.33
2023-026 10-24-2023  31.05
2023-021 11-21-2023  111.01
2023-027 12-19-2023  TSO Table I
2023-028 12-21-2023  TSO Table I
2024-005 4-16-2024   30.30
                     90.01 
2024-003 5-28-2024   90.12;
                     90.99
                     91.01 
2024-008 6-18-2024   91.13;
                     91.99
2024-010 7-16-2024   TSO Table III
2024-011 8-20-2024   TSO Table III
2024-012 9-17-2024   30.33
                     110.01 
2025-003 9-16-2025   110.08;
                     110.99
                     112.01 
2025-004 10-16-2025  112.10;
                     112.99
                     152.001 
                     152.008;
                     152.020 
                     152.024;
                     152.035 
                     152.040;
                     152.055 
                     152.061;
                     152.075 
                     152.090;
                     152.105 
                     152.111;
                     152.125 
                     152.128;
                     152.140 
                     152.143;
                     152.155 
                     152.166;
                     152.180 
2025-008 10-16-2025  152.184;
                     152.195 
                     152.201;
                     152.999;
                     153.001 
                     153.014;
                     153.025 
                     153.031;
                     153.045 
                     153.051;
                     153.065 
                     153.073;
                     153.085 
                     153.089;
                     153.100;
                     153.101;
                     153.115 
                     153.124;
                     153.135 
                     153.137;
                     153.999
2025-012 10-16-2025  TSO Table III
2025-013 10-16-2025  TSO Table III
2025-014 10-16-2025  TSO Table III
2025-011 10-28-2025  TSO Table II
2025-016 11-18-2025  TSO Table III
2025-018 3-17-2026   30.03
2025-020 12-16-2025  TSO Table I
2026-001 1-9-2026    30.01
2026-004 3-17-2026   152.007;
                     152.076
                     152.001;
2026-005 3-17-2026   152.057;
                     TSO Table III
                     152.007; 156.076;
2026-006 3-17-2026   152.079;
                     152.167
                     152.004;
                     152.076;
2026-010 4-21-2026   152.079;
                     152.141;
                     152.166
2026-007 5-26-2026   154.01 
                     154.09
                     151.01 
                     151.12;
2026-008 5-26-2026   151.25 
                     151.32;
                     151.99
2026-011 5-26-2026   30.18
2026-014 5-26-2026   90.13
                     50.01 
2026-009 6-16-2026   50.14;
                     50.99
                     152.001;
2026-012 6-16-2026   152.057;
                     TSO Table III
2026-013 6-16-2026   30.18
                     152.007;
2026-015 7-21-2026   152.076;
                     152.079
2026-016 7-21-2026   152.035;
                     152.036
2026-017 8-17-2026   30.32
                    
 
