VILLAGE OF CANKTON, LOUISIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through ord 3 of 2026, published - -2026
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Village of Cankton, Louisiana Code,” for which designation “code of
ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Board of Aldermen of the Village of Cankton,
Louisiana.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Village of Cankton, Louisiana.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PARISH. St. Landry Parish, Louisiana.
      PARISH COUNCIL. The St. Landry Parish Council.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Louisiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
      VILLAGE or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Cankton, Louisiana.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(La. R.S. § 33:401)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see La. R.S. § 44:32
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way;
contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in state law.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN; VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   MAYOR’S COURT
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
      
34.   VILLAGE PROPERTY
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN; VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen
   
30.02   Salary for village officials
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Municipal elections
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
   (A)   The regular meeting of place of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
Village of Cankton shall be designated as the Village Hall.
   (B)   The second Monday of each month shall be designated as the regular
meeting date of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the Village of Cankton,
Louisiana.
   (C)   In the event the second Monday of a given month shall occur on a legal
holiday and or a holiday designated for the village by its Mayor and Board of
Aldermen, said regular meeting shall be conducted on the following day.
   (D)   The time for commencing the regular meetings of the Mayor and Board of
Aldermen shall be 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 5 of 1961, passed - -; Ord. 1 of 1965, passed - -; Ord. 5-99, passed - -;
Ord. 1 of 1960, passed 11-21-1960; Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1960; Ord. I of 1968,
passed 1-16-1968; Ord. 2-01, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 30.02 SALARY FOR VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   Compensation of all municipal officials is set according to La. R.S. § 33:
401.1.
(Ord. 08-2015, passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 7 of 2019, passed - -2019; Ord. 2 of
2024, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or an Alderman. The person
calling the special meeting will notify the Clerk of the special meeting,
giving the date, time and purpose. The Clerk will then create the special
meeting notice and give said notice to the Chief of Police, who will have the
Mayor and Aldermen sign the notice stating the time and date of signature.
Everyone must be notified 24 hours before the meeting is called.
(Ord. 1-86, passed 3-11-1986)
§ 30.04 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The village hereby adopts a plan for holding municipal elections for the
village on the same date as the Congressional elections and held for the
election of members of Congress in accordance with La. R.S. § 18:402(B).
(Ord. 2-84, passed 10-9-1984)
CHAPTER 31: MAYOR’S COURT
Section
   
31.01   Authority to reduce charges
   
31.02   Court costs
§ 31.01 AUTHORITY TO REDUCE CHARGES.
   The presiding officers of the Mayor’s and/or Magistrate’s Court are given
express authority to amend, reduce and/or dismiss any charge coming before said
Court and to impose alternate sentences to payment of fines and court costs,
including, but not limited to, “community service,” all in said presiding
officer’s discretion.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 31.02 COURT COSTS.
   (A)   The Village Council shall establish a schedule of court costs for the
Mayor’s Court for violations of certain criminal offenses, municipal ordinances
and traffic offenses not requiring a mandatory court appearance by the alleged
violator which are to be added to existing fine amount. The schedule of court
costs and fines shall be made available at the Village Hall. The schedule of
bonds and fines shall be altered or amended only by ordinance.
   (B)   The following schedule of court costs has been adopted for the Mayor’s
Court of the village: Court costs for the Mayor’s Court shall be set at $86 per
traffic citation.
(Ord. 13-2015, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 2 of 2021, passed 2-8-2021)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Regional Planning Commission
   
32.02   Participation in State Municipal Risk Management Agency
§ 32.01 REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Appointment of members.
      (1)   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the village to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The member shall serve without compensation and may hold other
appointive or elected public office; provided, that the same is not prohibited
by law.
      (3)   The member appointed to the Planning Commission who holds other
public offices, appointed or elected, shall serve a term co-extensive with his
or her term of other public office. All other appointments to the Commission
shall be for a term of five years. The successors of the members first
appointed shall be appointed for a term of five years from and after the
expiration of the terms of their predecessors in office.
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs otherwise than by expiration of a term, it
shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term. Such appointment shall
be made by the Mayor.
   (B)   Municipal participation in regional planning. The adoption of the
ordinance codified in this section will not obligate the village to provide any
funds to the Regional Commission without specific consent of the Mayor and
Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 2 of 1969, passed 11-11-1969)
§ 32.02 PARTICIPATION IN STATE MUNICIPAL RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   The village resolves to join the State Municipal Risk Management
Agency and participate in its group self insurance fund which has been formed
to service the workers’ compensation and employer liability claims of the
employees of the municipalities joining the Agency.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized to execute and the Clerk attest the
application to join the State Municipal Risk Management Agency and participate
in its group self insurance fund with respect to workers’ compensation and
employer liability claims in the form and substance of the application attached
to the ordinance codified in this section as Exhibit A.
   (C)   The village will expend the sum of $153 for workers’ compensation and
employer liability risk sharing maintained or to be established by the State
Municipal Risk Management Agency.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 1-8-1980)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
Section
Personnel Policies
   
33.01   Appointment, suspension and dismissal
   
33.02   Hours of work
   
33.03   Annual leave and holidays
   
33.04   Sick leave
   
33.05   Civil leave
   
33.06   Outside employment
Drug Testing Policy
   
33.20   Purpose
   
33.21   Application
   
33.22   Drugs included
   
33.23   Actions in addition to testing
   
33.24   Job applicant testing
   
33.25   Current employee testing
   
33.26   Consequences of positive test result
   
33.27   Refusal to submit to testing
   
33.28   Notice of testing policy
   
33.29   Consent to testing
   
33.30   Tampering with test procedure
   
33.31   Right to a hearing
   
33.32   Laboratory testing requirements
   
33.33   Sample collection and testing procedure
   
33.34   Confidentiality of results
**** PERSONNEL POLICIES ****
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT, SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL.
   (A)   Vacancies to be filled in the municipal service shall be publicized in
order that qualified persons shall be encouraged to apply and qualify for
municipal employment.
   (B)   Employees shall be appointed pursuant to La. R.S. § 33:404(A)(3).
Appointments to positions shall be made on the basis of merit and fitness. In
filling vacancies, an effort should be made to promote qualified employees
before seeking an outside replacement.
   (C)   All appointments to positions in the service of the municipality shall
be for a probationary period of six months.
   (D)   During the investigation, hearing or trial of an employee on any
criminal charge or during the course of any civil action involving an employee,
when suspension would be in the best interest of the municipality, the Mayor
may suspend the employee without pay for the duration of the proceedings as a
non-disciplinary measure. Back pay shall not ordinarily be recoverable; but
where the suspension is terminated by full reinstatement of the employee, the
Mayor may authorize full recovery of pay and benefits for the entire or for any
lessor period of the suspension.
   (E)   An unsatisfactory employee shall be notified how his or her work is
deficient and what he or she must do if his or her work is to be satisfactory.
If the employee’s work continues to be below standard, the Mayor shall demote
or dismiss the employee pursuant to La. R.S. § 33:404(A)(3).
   (F)   Prior to dismissal or termination of an employee, the employee shall
be notified, by the Mayor or authorized department head, either verbally or in
writing, of the reason or reasons for his or her dismissal or termination. The
employee shall further be advised of the evidence on which the dismissal or
termination is based. The employee shall also be given an opportunity to
respond.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 3-11-1986)
§ 33.02 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   (1)   Municipal employees will normally perform their work during
hours established by the Mayor (7:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.).
      (2)   If it shall prove necessary for employees to work beyond the hours
established for the standard work day, the Mayor or authorized department head
may authorize overtime work. Notwithstanding this section, all overtime
provisions will be handled in accordance with applicable federal and state
statutes.
   (B)   The office of the Clerk will be open during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
3:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday and 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Fridays. The
assistant Clerk’s hours will be at the discretion of the Clerk with prior
approval from the Mayor’s office.
(Ord. 2-99, passed - -; Ord. 2-86, passed 3-11-1986)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL LEAVE AND HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   An employee must be employed by the village for at least one year
before he, she or they will be entitled to one week paid vacation. After five
years employment with the village, the employee will be entitled to two weeks
paid vacation per year.
   (B)   Employees may not carry over or accumulate annual leave from one
anniversary date of employment to another. An employee may get paid for any
unused vacation during that same calendar year.
   (C)   Annual leave may be taken as earned by an employee with the approval
of the employees’ department head. However, vacation leave is permissive and
may be denied by the heads of the department or the Mayor when conditions are
such that the ordinary work of the village could not be performed adequately if
vacation leave were granted. Annual leave may not be taken in less than one-
half day increments.
   (D)   (1)   Holidays are as follows:
         (a)   New Year’s Eve;
         (b)   New Year’s Day;
         (c)   Mardi Gras;
         (d)   Good Friday;
         (e)   Independence Day;
         (f)   Labor Day;
         (g)   All Saints’ Day;
         (h)   Thanksgiving Day and the day after;
         (i)   Christmas Eve; and
         (j)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   If a holiday falls on Saturday, employees will not work on Friday;
if it falls on Sunday, employees will not work on Monday.
   (E)   Employees required to work on an observed holiday shall receive
compensatory time off at the rate of one and one-half hour for every hour.
Holidays observed by municipality shall not be counted as vacation leave. All
employees will receive full pay for such days that are designated as official
holidays by the Board.
(Ord. 2-99, passed - -; Ord. 2-86, passed 3-11-1986)
§ 33.04 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Each employee of the village shall have five days of sick leave per
year.
   (B)   Each employee of the village shall be allowed to accrue up to ten days
of sick leave if he, she or they fail to use all of his, her or their sick
leave days in previous years.
   (C)   Each current employee of the village who has sick leave days accrued
prior to the date of this subchapter shall be allowed to keep and use their
accrued sick leave days. Moving forward, however, no employee shall be allowed
to have more than ten days of accrued sick leave days.
(Ord. 2-99, passed - -; Ord. 2-86, passed 3-11-1986; Ord. 6 of 2018, passed 12-
10-2018)
§ 33.05 CIVIL LEAVE.
   A municipal employee called for jury duty or as a witness for the federal or
state governments or a subdivision thereof shall be entitled to leave with pay
for such duty during the required absence. Municipal employees may keep all
fees received from jury duty in addition to regular compensation. Law
enforcement officers may not receive or keep any witness fees for appearing in
Mayor’s Court in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 3-11-1986)
§ 33.06 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   The work of the municipality shall have precedence over the other
occupational interests of employees. All outside employment for salary, wages,
commission and all self-employment must be reported to and approved by the
Mayor and Board, and conflicting outside employment shall be grounds for
dismissal.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 3-11-1986)
**** DRUG TESTING POLICY ****
§ 33.20 PURPOSE.
   In an effort to promote and maintain a safe, healthful, productive and
efficient environment and work place for all of its employees and the public
which they serve, the village adopts a policy against drug abuse and places in
effect a testing program for all employees, as is more particularly outlined in
this subchapter. To accomplish this purpose, the village does hereby prohibit
the possession, use, distribution or sale of illegal drugs on the village
premises or by any on-duty employee. Any employee reporting for work in a
condition caused by off-duty use of drugs or controlled substances, which
detrimentally affects his or her ability to perform work, shall be deemed in
violation of this subchapter and subject to disciplinary action. In general,
this policy is intended to eliminate any type of substance which increases the
potential for accidents, absenteeism, substandard work performance, poor
employee morale or promotion of a negative public image. It is intended also
that this procedure be in conformity with La. R.S. § 23:1601(10).
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.21 APPLICATION.
   The persons to whom this subchapter applies and affects are all employees of
the village. All persons who apply for employment in the village shall be
required to take and successfully pass the drug test pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.22 DRUGS INCLUDED.
   (A)   The drugs subject to this policy and to the testing shall be those
drugs included in the definition of “prohibited drugs” specified in Schedule I
or Schedule II of the Controlled Substance Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 through 812,
or any of those drugs for which the U.S. Department of Transportation allows
testing of employees, as outlined in 49 C.F.R. §§ 199.1 et seq., including the
requirements of 49 C.F.R. §§ 199.1 et seq. The aforesaid provisions of the Code
of Federal Regulations are adopted and incorporated herein to be applied in the
same manner as if they had been stated in detail, which drugs presently include
the following:
      (1)   Marijuana (THC);
      (2)   Cocaine;
      (3)   Opiates (e.g., codeine, heroin, morphine, hydromorphone,
hydrocodone);
      (4)   Amphetamines (e.g., speed); and
      (5)   Phencyclidine (PCP).
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing listed drugs, the village may test, and
take action upon the results thereof, of any other drugs which are allowed in
the future by the U.S. Department of Transportation, including alcohol, without
the necessity of amending the ordinance codified in this subchapter. Employees
and applicants for employment shall be given proper notice in the event drugs
and/or alcohol are later added to the drugs listed above. Any drugs for which
testing may be done, as approved by the U.S. Department of Transportation,
shall be automatically and immediately added to the drugs for which testing may
be done by the village pursuant to this subchapter, and it shall not be
necessary to amend the ordinance codified in this subchapter to make such
additions effective. All provisions of this subchapter shall immediately,
without further action, apply to the drugs added to those listed above.
   (C)   Any person subject to this subchapter who is taking prescribed
medicine shall notify his or her immediate supervisor of the exact type of
medication prescribed and provide a written verification from the doctor
prescribing same. Applicants for employment with the village are to provide the
same information and verification prior to testing. If the prescribed
medication is of the type that might impair the employee’s ability to drive a
vehicle, operate equipment or other functions which affect a person’s safety,
the supervisor shall order the employee to immediately discontinue such
actions.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.23 ACTIONS IN ADDITION TO TESTING.
   In the implementation of this policy, and in addition to testing for drugs,
the village may take the following action.
   (A)   Any and all property belonging to the village shall be subject to
inspection at any time, and without prior warning, by any supervisor or other
persons designated or authorized by the Mayor or the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, VILLAGE PROPERTY shall include, but
is not limited to, vehicles, desks, files, cabinets, containers, boxes,
footlockers, restrooms, closets and the like.
   (C)   Lockers assigned to particular employees may be inspected in the
presence of the employee.
   (D)   Any employee who has knowledge that another employee is involved in
the manufacture, use or possession of any of the drugs or other substances
stated in this subchapter shall have the duty to inform his or her immediate
supervisor, the Mayor or a member of the Board of Aldermen of such knowledge.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.24 JOB APPLICANT TESTING.
   (A)   All persons who apply for employment with the village will be required
to undergo a drug test prior to final appointment, as part of the pre-
employment physical.
   (B)   Positive results of an applicant’s test shall be grounds for rejection
unless caused by a drug for which a valid prescription was given by a doctor
and which was made known to the village prior to testing.
   (C)   The cost of the test may be required to be paid by the applicant prior
to testing and will be reimbursed only upon final appointment.
   (D)   Any applicant refusing to be tested shall be rejected.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.25 CURRENT EMPLOYEE TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   Any employee may be required to submit to a drug test at the
request of his or her immediate supervisor at random or periodically, and also:
         (a)   When an employee is involved in an accident; and
         (b)   When the supervisor has reasonable suspicion that the employee
is under the influence of drugs during work hours.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, REASONABLE SUSPICION means an
articulable belief based upon specific facts and reasonable inferences drawn
from those facts that an employee is under the influence of drugs.
Circumstances which constitute a basis for determining REASONABLE SUSPICION may
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Direct observation of drug use;
         (b)   A pattern of errant or abnormal behavior and mood changes;
         (c)   Information provided by a reliable and credible source;
         (d)   An accident;
         (e)   Presence of physical symptoms of drug use, such as slurred
speech, glassy eyes and poor coordination or reflexes;
         (f)   Decreased productivity;
         (g)   Unusual absenteeism or tardiness; and
         (h)   Frequent or prolonged absence from the work area.
   (B)   The supervisor shall submit to the Mayor a written report stating the
facts and circumstances upon which the recommended testing is based, and the
Mayor or his or her designated representative shall make the final decision as
to whether the test will be conducted.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.26 CONSEQUENCES OF POSITIVE TEST RESULT.
   (A)   Applicants. Job applicants will be denied employment with the village
if their test results are positive. Applicants who are rejected on the basis of
a positive drug test result may not reapply for employment for a period of one
year from date of notification of the results.
   (B)   Employees.
      (1)   If an employee’s test results are positive, the employee is subject
to disciplinary action by the appointing authority up to and including
termination of employment. The village may require an employee testing positive
to submit to a substance abuse program, psychological counseling or medical
treatment, all or any of which would be at the employee’s expense. The facts
and circumstances of each case are to be considered, and such factors as work
history, length of employment, current job performance and the like may be
considered.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, APPOINTING AUTHORITY means the
principal officer or the municipal body which has the authority to make
appointments and/or employ municipal employees, such as the Mayor in cases
where he or she alone can make such appointments and such as the Board of
Aldermen in such instances where such Board makes appointments.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.27 REFUSAL TO SUBMIT TO TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   Any employee who refuses to submit to drug testing upon request,
as stated hereinabove, may be subject to disciplinary action as determined by
the appointing authority. The facts and circumstances of each case are to be
considered in determining such action. Disciplinary action may include
termination.
      (2)   The appointing authority may also require that an employee testing
positive submit to a substance abuse program, psychological counseling, medical
treatment or dismissal.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, APPOINTING AUTHORITY means the
municipal officer or the municipal body which has the authority to make
appointments and/or employ municipal employees, such as the Mayor in cases
where he or she alone can make such appointments and such as the Board of
Aldermen in such instances where such Board makes appointments.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.28 NOTICE OF TESTING POLICY.
   The village shall provide a copy of this subchapter to all gas employees and
gas job applicants.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.29 CONSENT TO TESTING.
   Prior to a drug test being administered, the employee or job applicant will
be requested to sign a consent form authorizing the test and permitting the
release of the results to the employer or authorized agents, and containing an
acknowledgment of notification of the testing policy.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.30 TAMPERING WITH TEST PROCEDURE.
   If an individual being tested is found to have tampered or to be tampering
with the testing procedures, attempting to falsify a specimen or to invalidate
the chain-of-custody, that individual is immediately disallowed from continuing
testing and the individual will be treated as if a positive test result had
been obtained.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.31 RIGHT TO A HEARING.
   An employee testing positive is entitled to a pre-disciplinary hearing with
the immediate supervisor and the Mayor, but only if the employee has made a
written request for such hearing to the supervisor or to the Mayor within 24
hours of receipt by the employee of the test results.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.32 LABORATORY TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All drug testing of employees and applicants shall be conducted at
medical facilities or laboratories selected by the village. To be considered as
a testing site, a medical facility or lab must submit in writing a description
of the procedures that will be used to maintain test samples.
   (B)   Factors to be considered and used as a guideline by the village in
selecting a testing facility include:
      (1)   Testing procedures which ensure privacy to employees and applicants
consistent with the prevention of tampering;
      (2)   Methods of analysis which ensure reliable test results, including
the use of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry to confirm positive test
results;
      (3)   Chain-of-custody procedures which ensure proper identification,
labeling and handling of test samples; and
      (4)   Retention and storage procedures which ensure reliable results on
confirmatory tests of original samples.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.33 SAMPLE COLLECTION AND TESTING PROCEDURE.
   All sample collection and testing for drugs shall be performed in accordance
with the following conditions.
   (A)   The collection of samples shall be performed under reasonably sanitary
conditions.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected and tested with due regard to the privacy
of the individual being tested and in a manner reasonably calculated to prevent
substitutions or interference with the collection of testing of reliable
samples.
   (C)   Sample collection shall be documented, and the documentation
procedures shall include:
      (1)   Labeling of samples so as reasonably to preclude the probability of
erroneous identification of test results; and
      (2)   An opportunity for the individual to provide notification of any
information which he or she considers relevant to the test, including
identification of currently or recently used prescription or nonprescription
drugs or other relevant medical information.
   (D)   Sample collection, storage and transportation to the place of testing
shall be performed so as reasonably to preclude the probability of sample
contamination or adulteration.
   (E)   (1)   Sample testing shall conform to scientifically accepted
analytical methods and procedures. Testing shall include verification or
confirmation of any positive test result by gas chromatography/mass
spectroscopy or other comparably reliable analytical method. Test results which
do not exclude the possibility of passive inhalation of marijuana may not be
used as a basis for disqualification under this division (E).
      (2)   However, test results which indicate that the concentration of
total urinary cannabinoids as determined by immunoassay exceeds 100 nanograms/
ml shall exclude the possibility of passive inhalation.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
§ 33.34 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RESULTS.
   Except for disciplinary hearings provided for bylaw, claims for unemployment
compensation under La. R.S. § 23:1601(10), or others where the results are
relevant, the results are to remain confidential to the employer, authorized
agents or representatives of employer, the tested employee or applicant or
those authorized by the employee or applicant to receive the results.
(Ord. 1 of 1992, passed 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 34: VILLAGE PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Changing locks and combinations with new administration
Use of Village Property for Business Operations
   
34.15   Findings
   
34.16   Permit required
Village Vehicles
   
34.30   Public plates required
   
34.31   Vehicle identification
   
34.32   Chief of Police responsibility
   
34.33   General prohibitions
   
34.34   Activity log
   
34.35   Illegal substances
 
   
34.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 34.01 CHANGING LOCKS AND COMBINATIONS WITH NEW ADMINISTRATION.
   All doors to all municipal owned buildings be rekeyed and all combinations
to all safes and locking devices be changed at each time that a new
administration was sworn in.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed - -)
**** USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY FOR BUSINESS OPERATIONS ****
§ 34.15 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The village recognizes that it holds its property and the rights-of-
way within its geographical boundaries as an asset in trust for its citizens.
The village and other public entities have invested millions of dollars in
public funds to acquire, build and maintain the rights-of-way. It also
recognizes that some persons, by placing their equipment in the rights-of-way
and charging the citizens of the village for goods and services delivered
thereby, are profiting from their use of this property held by the village for
the public good.
   (B)   The village’s rights-of-way are owned or held by the village primarily
for the purpose of pedestrian and vehicular passage and for the village’s
provision of essential public safety services, including police, fire and
emergency medical response services; and public health services, including
sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage services (together, “public uses”).
   (C)   Public uses should in all cases be considered and treated as the
dominant and preeminent uses of public property and rights-of-way.
   (D)   All other uses of public rights-of-way, including use for the
provision of business operations, must be subordinate to public uses.
   (E)   In order to provide for the health, safety and well-being of its
citizens, as well as to ensure the structural integrity of its rights-of-way
and the village owned facilities located therein, the village strives to keep
its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and free from unnecessary
encumbrances.
   (F)   Right-of-way obstructions and deterioration disrupt the flow of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic and are a source of frustration for merchants,
business owners and the general population.
   (G)   The state legislature enacted Act 433 of 2008, codified as La. R.S. §§
45:1361 through 45:1378 as the Consumer Choice for Television Act, which
provides for a state-issued certificate of franchise authority for cable and
video services. In La. R.S. § 45:1374, the legislature reserved to local
government certain authority to regulate the holder of a state-issued
certificate of franchise authority including the village’s lawful exercise of
its police powers.
   (H)   In order for the village to properly protect the health, safety and
welfare of its citizens, to enhance the public uses and manage and maintain its
property, it is appropriate and necessary that the village obtain and maintain
current, accurate information concerning the location, construction,
installation and maintenance of structures, facilities and equipment occupying
village property for business operations (“system”).
(Ord. 05-08, passed - -)
§ 34.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or entity may enter upon, traverse, either above ground or below,
or otherwise utilize any property, servitude or other property right, owned,
leased, possessed or controlled by the village (herein referred to as “village
property”) for the conduct of business operations without first being issued a
permit to enter village property for business operations as more fully set
forth hereafter.
   (A)   Location of any system for business operations within village property
without a valid permit from the village pursuant to this subchapter presents a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of the village’s citizens and their
property and is expressly forbidden.
   (B)   The village recognizes and reserves any and all rights available to it
to regulate use of any village property.
   (C)   The granting of any village license, permit or other requirement for
doing business within the village shall not be construed as authorizing any
such person or entity the right to utilize village property for the conduct of
business operations.
   (D)   Any person or entity desiring to operate a system occupying village
property (“applicant”) shall make a written request to the village for a
permit, which shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number and contact people of the person or
entity making the request;
      (2)   Necessary corporate information, if applicable;
      (3)   Name, address, email address and home, office and cell telephone
numbers of a person with authority to act on behalf of the applicant in case of
emergency;
      (4)   Description of the proposed activity;
      (5)   Identification of the village property which applicant’s system
will occupy. Said identification shall include the following:
         (a)   Map drawn to scale of the location of all of applicant’s system
presently occupying village property;
         (b)   Inventory of all equipment, structures and facilities comprising
the applicant’s system occupying village property; and
         (c)   Description of all anticipated construction, major maintenance
and major installation activities which shall include the specific locations
and the beginning and ending dates of all projects to be commenced during the
next calendar year; and the tentative locations and beginning and ending dates
for all projects contemplated for the two-year period following the next
calendar year.
      (6)   Proof of comprehensive general liability insurance covering and
affecting the applicant’s business operations occupying village property. The
applicant shall notify the village of cancellation of such policy(ies) at least
30 days in advance of such cancellation; and
      (7)   Name of all contractors acting or working on behalf of applicant
within village property along with the name and home, office and cell telephone
numbers of a person with authority to act on behalf of the contractor in case
of emergency.
   (E)   Upon provision of all of the information required by division (D)
above, the village shall issue a permit allowing the applicant/permittee to
enter village property to conduct business operations in accordance with the
specific information provided to the village by the applicant/permittee.
   (F)   Standard provisions of each permit granted pursuant to this subchapter
shall include the following.
      (1)   Conditions of occupancy. The system shall be located so as to cause
minimum interference with the public uses use of village property and with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that
adjoins village property.
      (2)   Restoration of public ways. If, during the course of the
permittee’s construction, installation or maintenance of the system, there
occurs a disturbance of any village property by the permittee, the permittee
shall replace and restore such village property to a condition reasonably
comparable to the condition of the village property existing immediately prior
to such disturbance.
      (3)   Relocation at request of the village. If the village shall lawfully
elect to vacate, relocate, abandon, alter, reconstruct or change any village
property, the permittee, upon 30 days written notice by the village via
certified mail to the permittee, shall remove, re-lay and relocate its
structure, equipment and facilities at its own expense. Should the permittee
refuse or fail to remove system within 30 days after written notification, the
village shall have the right to remove the component parts of the system and
charge the permittee for the costs of removal.
      (4)   Relocation at request of third party. The permittee shall, on the
request of any person holding a lawful building moving permit, protect,
support, raise, lower, temporarily disconnect, relocate in or remove from any
village property, as necessary, any property of the permittee provided: the
expense of such is paid by said person benefiting from the relocation,
including, if required by the permittee, making such payment in advance; and
the permittee is given reasonable advance written notice to prepare for such
changes. For the purpose of this section, reasonable advance written notice
shall be no less than 30 days in the event of a temporary relocation and no
less than 120 days for a permanent relocation.
      (5)   Interference with use of right-of-way. When working within village
property, the permittee shall not unreasonably interfere with public uses of
said village property and the safety, health and convenience of the public in
the public’s use thereof for ordinary travel.
   (G)   No less than three business days prior to commencement of
construction, installation or maintenance activities within village property,
the permittee shall notify the village of the specific locations and beginning
and ending dates of said construction, installation or maintenance project and
shall provide current, accurate contact information for both the permittee and
the contractor as outlined in division (D) above. Upon receipt of this
notification, the village shall determine whether the proposed construction,
installation or maintenance activities shall pose an unreasonable inference
with public uses. If the village determines the proposed activity presents no
such unreasonable interference, it shall issue the permittee a notice to
proceed. If the permittee receives no written notification from the village
within 24 hours of the proposed commencement of activities, the proposed
activities may be deemed approved. This section shall not apply to emergency
repair projects or utility service extension projects which the permittee could
not have anticipated.
   (H)   The permittee shall keep all of the information required by division
(D) above current at all times by immediately providing the village written
notice of changes.
   (I)   Any person or entity whose system occupies village property for
business operations without obtaining the permit required in this subchapter;
who fails to provide the 72-hour notice prior to commencement of construction,
installation or maintenance activities as required in division (F) above; or
who fails to maintain current, accurate information required by division (D)
above concerning any system occupying village property may have any permit
granted pursuant to this subchapter revoked and may be denied future
authorization for construction, installation or maintenance activities for a
period of two years.
(Ord. 05-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
**** VILLAGE VEHICLES ****
§ 34.30 PUBLIC PLATES REQUIRED.
   Any and all automobiles, trucks and any other vehicle, whether two- or four-
wheeled, owned, licensed and registered to the village, if required by law to
bear a state license plate, shall, according to such law, bear such a public
plate. Furthermore, each such vehicle shall have inscribed, painted, decaled
and/or stenciled conspicuously thereon, either with lettering in an appropriate
height and width and/or with an insignia containing the appropriate information
either in a square or circular design also in an appropriate height and width
so as to be easily identified as belonging to the village. Magnetic signs of
any kind that can be easily removed shall not be allowed.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 34.31 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   The words “Village of Cankton,” in accordance with the provisions of §
34.30 shall be placed on the outside of the driver side and front passenger
side door of every truck, automobile and any other vehicle which the village
owns. Each vehicle shall also have inscribed, painted, decaled or stenciled the
name of the department to which this vehicle has been issued. Said lettering
and inscriptions on all vehicles shall be in a color that contrasts sharply
with the color that it is placed over. Magnetic signs of any kind that can be
easily removed shall not be allowed. The Board of Aldermen shall reserve the
right to approve or disapprove, at its sole discretion, any and all markings on
all village owned vehicles in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 34.32 CHIEF OF POLICE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Chief of Police of the village shall be responsible for ensuring that
all vehicles issued to the Police Department and currently in use for policing
purposes shall bear markings as defined herein and shall do so within 15 days
of the passage of this subchapter. All other vehicles the village owns shall
also be marked within the 15 days’ time limit as set forth by this subchapter.
All future vehicles acquired and/or purchased, either through donations, cash
purchases or grants by the village, and registered and licensed to the village
shall also be marked in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 34.33 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No officer, elected official or employee of the village shall drive or
operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any vehicle owned by the village
that does not bear the markings in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   All automobiles, trucks and any other vehicle owned by the village
shall not be driven or caused to be driven by any elected official, officer or
employee of the village, out of the corporate limits of the village except on
explicit and official business for the village. All vehicles are to be driven
by elected officials, officers or employees of the village only. No vehicle
owned by the village shall have any passengers other than elected officials,
officers or other employees of the village, with the exception of the Police
Department when transporting a prisoner. In the event of a medical emergency,
transportation of a passenger to a medical facility, other than an elected
official, officer or employee of the village, shall be allowed. The Mayor and
Board of Aldermen shall be notified of said transport as soon as it is
convenient to do so.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.34 ACTIVITY LOG.
   (A)   All vehicles owned by the village shall maintain a log of activity
when the vehicle is taken out of the corporate limits of the village. The log
shall record beginning and ending mileage, date and purpose of the trip and
signed by the person making the trip and the elected official approving the
trip.
   (B)   This documentation shall be kept on all vehicles and shall be turned
in on a monthly basis at the Village Council meetings held on the second Monday
of each month.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 34.35 ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES.
   No illegal substances of any kind as defined by any current state statutes
shall be allowed in the vehicle at any time unless on official police business.
All elected officials, officers and employees authorized to drive any of the
vehicles owned by the village must have a valid state driver’s license and
cannot smoke or be under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol while driving or
as a passenger in said vehicle. Any and all vehicles owned by the village shall
be subject to inspection at any time and without warning.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
34.16 shall afford the village the full range of remedies available under any
applicable law or regulation including the levying of fines. The election of
one or more remedies shall not be construed as a waiver of any other legal and/
or equitable remedy including, but not limited to, the village’s right to seek
injunctive relief, damages and attorneys’ fees as the law might allow.
   (C)   Any village elected official, officer or employee of the village who
drives or operates, or who orders, requests or permits any employee under his
or her supervision or control, or any other person to drive or operate any
vehicle owned by the village that is not in accordance with any or all of the
provisions of §§
34.30 through
34.35, shall be guilty of a violation thereof. Each day that a violation occurs
shall be considered a separate offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $50 and not more than $100 for each separate violation.
(Ord. 05-08, passed - -; Ord. 01-05, passed 6-13-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
   
50.01   Water rates
   
50.02   Destruction and/or tampering with water meters and other water system
components
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rates.
      (1)   The base water rate shall be set at $21 for the first 2,000 gallons
of water used.
      (2)   The rate for each additional 1,000 gallons of water used shall
remain at the rate of $4.64 per 1,000 gallons. The rate for each additional
1,000 gallons of water used shall increase yearly by 3%. Said increase shall
happen in January of each year.
   (B)   Commercial customer rates.
      (1)   The base water rate for all commercial water customers shall be set
at $25 for the first 2,000 gallons of water used.
      (2)   The rate for each additional 1,000 gallons of water used shall be
the rate of $6 per 1,000 gallons. The rate for each additional 1,000 gallons of
water used shall increase yearly by 3%. Said increase shall happen in January
of each year.
(Ord. 2 of 2018, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 3 of 2018, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 1
of 2024, passed 4-8-2024; Ord. 2 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 50.02 DESTRUCTION AND/OR TAMPERING WITH WATER METERS AND OTHER WATER SYSTEM
COMPONENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, disconnect, remove or
in any way tamper with the water meters, meter boxes, regulators, valves, pipes
or any other part of the village water system.
   (B)   In addition to the fines and/or imprisonment listed in §
50.99, any person who is found guilty of damaging, disconnecting, removing or
in any way tampering with the water meters, meter boxes, regulators, valves,
pipes or any other part of the village water system shall be liable for any and
all costs to repair and/or replace the damaged or tampered with parts.
(Ord. 1 of 2023, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates §
50.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days,
or both such fine and imprisonment within the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 1 of 2023, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Window tint violations
   
70.03   State regulations adopted
   
70.04   Compression brakes prohibited
   
70.05   Heavy vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   STREET. Includes every way or place of whatever nature open to the use of
the public for the purpose of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device by which persons or things may be transported upon a
public street or bridge, excepting devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. A bicycle or a ridden animal shall
be a VEHICLE, and a trailer or semi-trailer shall be a separate VEHICLE.
(Ord. 2 of 1960, passed - -)
§ 70.02 WINDOW TINT VIOLATIONS.
   No person or persons shall operate a motorized vehicle on any public street,
road, lane, circle, boulevard, drive, highway, thoroughfare, parkway and or
avenue located within the corporate limits of the village with illegal window
tint that is below the legal darkness as set forth by La. R.S. § 36:361 which
is 40% for the front windows, 25% for the back windows and 12% for the back
dash window.
(Ord. 02-08, passed 5-14-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by law, the municipality adopts the
provisions of La. R.S. Title 32, Chapter 1 (State Highway Regulatory Act) and
all regulations of the State Department of Transportation and Development and
the Secretary of the Department of Public Safety and Corrections adopted
pursuant thereto, except for such provisions and regulations which by their
nature can have no application and except as otherwise provided in this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision adopted
in division (A) above on any street, highway or other public way.
(Ord. 01-2013, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use of a motor vehicle powered braking device commonly known as a
“jake brake” on all roads and streets within the village’s corporate limits is
hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency vehicles
or equipment.
(Ord. 09-2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 HEAVY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or business, without first having secured
a valid permit from the Parish Police Jury, shall drive or cause to be driven
on any public road maintained by the Parish Police Jury, any motor vehicle,
trailer, semi-trailer, tandem semi-trailer or vehicle of any kind while said
vehicle, loaded or unloaded, shall exceed in weight 24,000 pounds.
   (B)   The President of the Parish Police Jury or the Parish Police Jury Road
Superintendent is hereby authorized to issue a special permit for the operation
of vehicles or combinations thereof having a total weight in excess of the
limits imposed herein, if in his, her or their discretion the interest of the
public requires it or there is an emergency or strong economic reasons for
issuing said permit.
(Ord. 1971-15, passed - -; Ord. 5-83, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of $150 for the first offense, $250 for the
second offense and $350 for the third offense and all subsequent offenses after
the third offense.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
70.04 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment within the
discretion of the court.
   (D)   Any such person, firm, corporation of business who or which shall
violate the provisions of §
70.05 shall be liable for all civil damages and, in addition, shall be subject
to criminal prosecution and fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, or by
imprisonment for ten days in jail, or both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 5-83, passed - -; Ord. 02-08, passed 5-14-2008; Ord. 09-2015, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   General parking prohibitions
   
71.02   Obstructing sidewalks prohibited
   
71.03   Village authority to designate no parking areas
   
71.04   Tampering with signs, signals; unofficial signs, signals
   
71.05   Driveways
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stop a vehicle even
momentarily, except to make a traffic stop, as required by this chapter:
   (A)   In any street intersection or within 15 feet therefrom;
   (B)   On the same side of the street with and within ten feet therefrom;
   (C)   On the same side of the street and within ten feet of either side of
the entrance of any fire station; or
   (D)   On the same side of the street with and so as to obstruct any alley,
driveway, entrance or exit of any public or private premises.
(Ord. 3 of 1975, passed 12-9-1975) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any sidewalk in the village
by the parking of a motor vehicle or any other type of vehicle across said
sidewalk.
(Ord. 3 of 1975, passed 12-9-1975) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 VILLAGE AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE NO PARKING AREAS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall have a right to designate
No Parking Zones where no parking shall be allowed. The No Parking Zones shall
be designated by the posting of signs designating the zone and placed by the
Police Department. Any person parking a vehicle in a No Parking Zone shall be
in violation of this chapter and shall be punished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3 of 1975, passed 12-9-1975) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TAMPERING WITH SIGNS, SIGNALS; UNOFFICIAL SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized to do so to move or
change location of any official traffic or parking sign of the village, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display upon or in view
of any trees or alley any unofficial sign or signal or device which purports or
attempts to direct the operation or parking of vehicles. Each such prohibited
sign, signal or device which purports or attempts to direct the operation or
parking of vehicles is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove or cause to be removed without notice,
providing further, that anyone violating the provisions of this section shall
be punished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3 of 1975, passed 12-9-1975) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 DRIVEWAYS.
   From and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section,
it shall be unlawful for any person to build, cut or create a driveway from any
street across the sidewalk into his or her premises without first having
obtained a permit from the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. Any violation of this
section shall be punished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3 of 1975, passed 12-9-1975) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, on
conviction, be fined not less than $5 or more than $25, or sentenced to
imprisonment in the Parish Jail for a term of not more than 30 days, or both
fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 3 of 1975, passed 12-9-1975)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally.
Street Location Speed Limit Penalty
Street       Location                                                               Speed Penalty
                                                                                    Limit
Credeur Road                                                                       35     
                                                                                    mph
Dandurand                                                                          15     
Street                                                                              mph
Guidry                                                                             15     
Street                                                                              mph
Lydia Street                                                                       15     
                                                                                    mph
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine not
                                                                                          exceeding
                                                                                          $100, or
                                                                                          imprisonment
Main Street  From George Savoie’s station to the intersection of Main with Menard 25    for a period
             Street                                                                 mph   not
                                                                                          exceeding 30
                                                                                          days, or by
                                                                                          both such
                                                                                          fine and
                                                                                          imprisonment
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
Noah’s Ark                                                                       15    over the
Boulevard                                                                           mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
Savoie Road                                                                        35    over the
                                                                                    mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
St. Bridget                                                                        15     
Circle                                                                              mph
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
St. Dylan                                                                          15    over the
Circle                                                                              mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
St. Ignatius                                                                       15    over the
Circle                                                                              mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
St. Lawrence                                                                       15     
Circle                                                                              mph
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
St. Marie                                                                          15    over the
Circle                                                                              mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
St. Nicholas                                                                       15    over the
Circle                                                                              mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
                                                                                          Misdemeanor.
                                                                                          Fine of $10
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          and $4 per
                                                                                          mile over
                                                                                          the posted
                                                                                          speed limit,
                                                                                          up to 19
                                                                                          miles, and
                                                                                          $6 per mile
St. Ryan                                                                           15    over the
Circle                                                                              mph   speed limit
                                                                                          for 20 miles
                                                                                          and above.
                                                                                          An
                                                                                          additional
                                                                                          cost of $50
                                                                                          per citation
                                                                                          issued will
                                                                                          be assessed
                                                                                          for court
                                                                                          fees
Thibodeaux                                                                         15     
Lane                                                                                mph
Vena Lane                                                                          15     
                                                                                    mph
 
   (B)   Heavy vehicles.
 
Street      Application               Speed Limit Penalty
            Operators of commercial
            vehicles, 18-wheelers,
            school buses, big rigs or             Fine not to exceed $500 or
Savoie Road tractor trailers with a   25 mph      imprisonment for not more
            gross weight of 15,000                than 30 days, or both
            pounds or more or having
            three or more axles
 
(Ord. 2 of 1960, passed - -; Ord. 3-00, passed - -; Ord. 04-03, passed - -;
Ord. 04-07, passed 1-14-2008; Ord. 01-2011, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 5 of 2019,
passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking areas
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
 
Location                               Prohibition
In front of the Catholic Church        No one is permitted to block driveways
beginning with the hedges on south and and/or entrances
ending with the hedges on north
The area in front of the fire station  No parking
 
(Ord. 1 of 1973, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   DILAPIDATED, UNINHABITED AND DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Smoking in municipal buildings
   
90.02   Noise
Noxious Weeds
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Applicability
   
90.17   Prohibitions
   
90.18   Exemptions for agricultural properties, forests and woodlands
   
90.19   Authority to enter property
   
90.20   Liability for costs
   
90.21   Responsibility for violations by corporations or by firms
   
90.22   Charges when village abates violations
   
90.23   Collection of charges when village abates violation
   
90.24   Abatement time periods for tall grass violations
   
90.25   Removal of noxious weeds, grasses responsibility of owner
Junked Items, Debris
   
90.40   Definition
   
90.41   Declaration of public nuisance
   
90.42   Notice to owner to abate nuisance
   
90.43   Manner or service of orders and notices required
   
90.44   Hearing
   
90.45   Failure to abate, removal
   
90.46   Exceptions
   
90.47   Charge for cost of work
   
90.48   Lien against property
Abandoned, Inoperative, Junk Motor Vehicles
   
90.60   Definitions
   
90.61   Exceptions
   
90.62   Administration, enforcement; right of law enforcement officers to enter
property
   
90.63   Notice to abate
   
90.64   Removal from unoccupied premises, private property
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 SMOKING IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES. Includes all buildings and facilities
owned, leased or otherwise occupied by the municipality.
      SMOKE or SMOKE. Includes the carrying of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe
or any other form of tobacco or the inhaling and exhaling of smoke by a person
from any form of lighted tobacco.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in all municipal buildings and facilities, with
the exception of the hallway leading out from the main hall and located between
the kitchen and the bathroom facilities, which will be designated as a “Smoking
Area.”
   (C)   “No Smoking” signs shall be conspicuously posted in all municipal
buildings and facilities, with the exception of the hallway leading out from
the main hall and located between the kitchen and bathroom facilities which
will be posted with a “Smoking in this Area Only” sign by the department head
or any other person having control of such buildings and facilities.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 7-12-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 NOISE.
   (A)   Acts listed. The following acts, among others, are declared to be
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises and noises in violation of this section
are unlawful, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Horns or signal devices. The sounding of any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except
as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control,
or if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied
and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any noise for any unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   Radio, phonograph or any musical instrument. The playing of any
radio, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such
volume, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any
dwelling or other type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity;
      (3)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing on the public streets or parking lots, particularly
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, repose of persons in any dwelling or other
type of residence or of any person in the vicinity;
      (4)   Loudspeakers on trucks. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or
amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or
other purposes, unless a permit therefor has first been obtained from the
Mayor; provided, however, that operations under such permit shall at all times
comply with the restrictions and conditions imposed in said permit;
      (5)   Loudspeakers for advertising. The use or operation, or the causing
to be used or operated, in front of or outside of any building, place or
premises, or through any window, doorway or opening of such building abutting
upon the public street, or upon any public street, any device or apparatus for
tapping windows, or for amplifying sound from any radio or phonograph, or any
sound-reproducing device; provided, however, that the use of a loudspeaker
shall be permitted when a permit therefor has first been obtained from the
Mayor; and provided, further, that the use of such loudspeaker shall at all
times comply with the restrictions and conditions imposed in said permit;
      (6)   Hawkers, peddlers and vendors. The shouting or crying of peddlers,
hawkers and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood; and
      (7)   Music in the park. Any person or entity who desires to play music
within the park after 10:00 p.m. shall be required to obtain a permit from the
village.
   (B)   Exceptions. None of the terms or prohibitions hereof shall apply to or
be enforced against:
      (1)   Any publicly owned vehicle while engaged upon necessary public
business; or
      (2)   The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of
public addresses which are noncommercial in character, and for which a permit
is first obtained from the municipal authorities.
   (C)   Compliance. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate and fail to
comply with the provisions of this section and violation of same.
(Ord. 2-90, passed 3-13-1990; Ord. 3 of 2021, passed 3-8-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** NOXIOUS WEEDS ****
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEMAND or NOTICE. The form or written declaration to the intended receiver
of the information, prepared in a manner calculated to give to the receiver
reasonable notice of the intentions of the parish government.
   IMMOVABLE PROPERTY. Any immovable property that is not defined as a lot.
   LOT. Any lot, portion of lot or any other property, improved or unimproved,
located within a residential area, whether or not said residential area is a
dedicated subdivision.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. A subdivision or area within the jurisdiction of the parish
government that contains residences or business establishments in close
proximity to one another. Determination of “close proximity” shall be made by
the Director of the Public Works Department.
   NEUTRAL GROUND. The area between the property line and the traveled surface
of the roadway.
   NOXIOUS FOLIAGE. Any foliage that is disagreeable, harmful, unpleasant or
destructive to living beings.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who lives in, resides in, conducts or operates a
business in or uses any building, house, structure or grounds.
   OWNER. The recorded owner of any building, house, structure or grounds, as
recorded in the records of the tax assessor’s office and the Parish Council
shall have the right to rely exclusively on said tax rolls for purposes of this
subchapter.
   RESIDENT. An occupant of a residential property.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. A designated subdivision or any area that contains three
or more occupied residences within a 500-foot radius of the nuisance in
question.
   SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land that has been divided and individual lots sold
to new owners, with the whole bearing a common development title or name.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.16 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter sets forth regulations governing the growth of grass, weeds
and noxious foliage within the jurisdiction of the parish government.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.17 PROHIBITIONS.
   On properties within the village limits and occupied subdivisions, no owner,
tenant or occupant of any leased, occupied or unoccupied lot, place, property
or area shall permit any noxious weeds, grass or deleterious, unhealthy or
noxious growth over 18 inches in height to grow, stand or accumulate on any
lot, place or area leased or occupied by such owner, tenant or occupant, or on
any abutting sidewalk or neutral ground within any residential area; nor shall
the owner, tenant or occupant allow a lot, place or area of any abutting
sidewalk or neutral ground to become a haven for rodents, other dangerous
animals or reptiles in any residential area.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 EXEMPTIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL PROPERTIES, FORESTS AND WOODLANDS.
   (A)   Properties recorded as agricultural in the records of the tax
assessor’s office are exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with the
following exceptions: Property within village limits recorded as agricultural,
but which is not utilized for raising crops, including hay, and on which there
is no evidence of grazing, shall not be totally exempt from this subchapter.
Such property shall be maintained by cutting a buffer zone of 50 feet in depth
onto the property from the property line along all property boundaries
adjoining occupied subdivisions, neighborhoods and public streets, unless other
property restrictions are applicable. In such cases, the 12-inch restriction
applies within the required 50-foot buffer zone.
   (B)   Hayfields and naturally forested areas shall not be disturbed unless
abutting a residential area and then only to the extent of 100 feet adjacent to
any property line of any lot with an occupied residence located within said
residential area. Additionally, the areas shall not be allowed to become a
haven for rodents, other dangerous animals or reptiles. A lot and/or hayfield
and/or forested area shall be deemed to constitute a haven for rodents, other
dangerous animals or reptiles upon determination by the Parish Public Health
Unit that the presence of rodents, other dangerous animals or reptiles on said
lot and/or hayfield and/or forested area creates a nuisance or is a threat to
public health and safety.
   (C)   Unoccupied immovable property used for commercial farming and
designated as such by virtue of occupancy and continuous use shall also be
excluded from the provisions of this subchapter, but in no case shall the owner
of such immovable property allow it to become a haven for rodent, other
dangerous animals or reptiles. Unoccupied immovable property shall be deemed to
constitute a haven for rodents, other dangerous animals or reptiles upon
determination by the Parish Public Health Unit that the presence of rodents,
other dangerous animals or reptiles creates a nuisance or is a threat to the
public health and safety.
   (D)   The Mayor or his or her designee may, at his or her option, cause
notice to cut, destroy and/or remove from any lot, hayfield, forested area and/
or immovable property such weeds, grass or deleterious, unhealthy or noxious
growths or matter found growing, lying or located on such lot, hayfield,
forested area and/or immovable property and/or to rid such lot, hayfield,
forested area and/or immovable property of rodents, other dangerous animals or
reptiles to be published on two consecutive days in the official journal of the
parish. Such notice shall be deemed to meet the requirements of notice to any
and all owners, tenants or occupants of any such lot, hayfield, forested area
and/or immovable property.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designee is hereby authorized to enter
property found to be in violation of this subchapter and to cut, rake and
remove any noxious weed, grass or deleterious, unhealthy or noxious growth on
occupied or unoccupied property, growing or standing on any sidewalk or
banquette, or on any lot, place or area, provided no such work shall be
undertaken by the Mayor or his or her designee until the owner of the lot,
place or area, or the owners of the property abutting the sidewalk or banquette
shall have had the opportunity to do the work at least within 15 days after
receipt of a registered or certified letter by the Parish Council.
   (B)   In lieu of the notice prescribed in division (A) above, the Mayor or
his or her designee shall be authorized to undertake the work under the
following circumstances or upon the giving of the following notice.
      (1)   If the owner of any lot or other real property is unknown or his or
her whereabouts is not known, a sign giving notice of the violation and of the
intent to abate the violation shall be posted by the President or his or her
designee upon or near the premises and may, at the option of the President or
his or her designee, be published in the official journal of the parish one
time at least three days before the work is performed. The Mayor or his or her
designee shall make an affidavit setting out the facts as to unknown address.
      (2)   All costs incurred by the village in effecting notice to the owner
shall be included in the costs specified in §
90.20.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.20 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The actual cost to the village including reasonable and required
administrative charges of having work performed pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter is declared to be a charge, cost or expense of the property
abutting the sidewalk or banquette, or of the lot, place or area, where such
noxious weeds, grass, deleterious or unhealthy growths have been cut, destroyed
or removed. Such costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed for
the collection of taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties for
delinquencies. The Mayor or his or her designee shall cause the demand of the
owners of such property the payment of such charges, costs or expenses. After
the cutting, destruction or removal of such weeds, grass or growths as shall
have been done by the Public Works Department, after due notice as stated in §
90.19, if the costs or expenses thereof shall not have been paid within 30 days
after demand, the Village Clerk shall add the amount of the bill to the next
tax bill of the owner.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall also have recorded within 60 days from the
date of completion of the cutting or removal in the mortgage office of the
parish an attested bill showing the cost and expense incurred for the work and
the place or property on which the work was done, so as to establish for the
parish government a lien and privilege curing the payment of the property owner
of the charges, costs, expenses and legal interest on such amounts from the
date of recordation.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.21 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS BY CORPORATIONS OR BY FIRMS.
   (A)   Responsibility for violations by corporations. For the purposes of
enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, a corporation shall be deemed to
be represented by its President, or in the President’s absence, by its Vice-
President, or in the absence of both, by the officer or individual in charge of
the affairs of the corporation, any such representative shall be held
responsible and punished for any violation by the corporation of the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Responsibility for violations by firms. Each of the owners or partners
of a partnership, joint venture or association shall be held individually
responsible and punishable for any violation by the entity of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.22 CHARGES WHEN VILLAGE ABATES VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The following contractor fees and charges to property owners for
cutting and/or removal of grass, weeds, noxious foliage and/or trash shall
apply when the village government must accomplish the abatement.
Property Size Description: Type Contractors Fees(2) Charges to Property Owners
of Work(1)
Property Size Description: Type of Work(1) Contractors Fees Charges to Property
                                           (2)              Owners
                                                            Actual cost plus an
Less than 100’ x 100’(1)                                administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
                                                            Actual cost plus an
More and 100’ x 100’ but up to one acre(1)              administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
                                                            Actual cost plus an
One acre to less than five acres(1)                         administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
                                                            Actual cost plus an
Five acres or more                                          administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
                                                            Actual cost plus an
Debris and cuttings, removal and disposal                   administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
                                                            Actual cost plus an
Hourly rate                                                 administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
                                                            Actual cost plus an
Other jobs                                 Quotes obtained  administrative fee
                                                            not to exceed 50%
                                                            of actual cost
Notes to Table:
(1) Refer to grass cutting only. In the event that the property is in such
condition that it will require work in excess of regular mowing, quotes will be
obtained prior to the abatement and the charge will be the actual cost plus an
administrative fee not to exceed 50% of the actual cost.
(2) The actual price that will be paid to the contractor doing the work.
 
   (B)   If the village is forced to perform these duties due to nonperformance
by the property owner, the property owner shall be responsible for all costs
and/or expenses incurred for the remediation of the violation, plus
administrative charges not to exceed 50% of the contactor’s charges shall be
added to cover the village’s expenses.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.23 COLLECTION OF CHARGES WHEN VILLAGE ABATES VIOLATION.
   (A)   The actual cost to the village, including reasonable and required
administrative charges, and having work performed pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter, is declared to be a charge, cost or expense of the property
abutting the sidewalk or banquette, or of the lot, place or area, where such
noxious weeds, grass, deleterious or unhealthy foliage have been cut, destroyed
or removed. The costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed for
the collection of taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties for
delinquencies. The Parish President or his or her designee shall cause the
demand of the owners of such property the payment of such charges, costs or
expenses.
   (B)   After the cutting, destruction or removal of such weeds, grass or
foliage as shall have been done by the Director of the Public Works Department,
after due notice as provided in this subchapter, if the costs or expenses
thereof shall not have been paid within 30 days after demand, the Director of
the Finance Department shall add the amount of the bill to the next tax bill of
the owner. The Village Clerk shall have recorded in the mortgage office of the
parish an attested bill showing the cost and expense incurred for the work and
the place or property on which the work was done, so as to establish for the
parish government a lien and privilege securing the payment of the property
owner of the charges, costs, expenses and legal interest on such amounts from
the date of recordation.
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.24 ABATEMENT TIME PERIODS FOR TALL GRASS VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If the property owner liable has been notified pursuant to §
90.19 at any time during the immediately preceding 12 months and has failed to
do the work himself or herself after opportunity to do so, the parish
government may undertake to abate the property within the corporate limits of
village on a monthly basis without the notice required in this subchapter.
However, prior to undertaking such work, the village shall file and record an
affidavit, signed by the Mayor, at its administrative office.
   (B)   Such affidavit shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the property sufficient to reasonable identify it;
      (2)   A photograph of the property sufficient to reasonable identify its
unsafe or unsanitary condition and to justify the necessity for cutting,
destroying or removing weeds, grass or other noxious growths;
      (3)   A statement that the property owner liable has within the past 12
months failed to do such work after notification and opportunity to do so
pursuant to §
90.19; and
      (4)   Penalties shall be provided for as follows.
Property Size                                  Charges to Property
Description: Type of Work Contractors Fees (2) Owners              Penalties
(1)
Property Size Description: Type of     Contractors Charges to
Work (1)                               Fees (2)    Property       Penalties
                                                   Owners
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
Less than 100’ x 100’                         administrative  
                                                   fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
More and 100’ x 100’ but up to one            administrative  
acre*                                              fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
One acre to less than five acres*                 administrative  
                                                   fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
Five acres or more                                administrative  
                                                   fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
Debris and cuttings, removal and                  administrative  
disposal                                           fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
Hourly rate                                       administrative  
                                                   fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an
Other jobs                             Quotes      administrative  
                                       obtained    fee not to
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an        Plus a
First abatement                                   administrative penalty of
                                                   fee not to     $100
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an        Plus a
Second abatement                                  administrative penalty of
                                                   fee not to     $200
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
                                                   Actual cost
                                                   plus an        Plus a
Third abatement                                   administrative penalty of
                                                   fee not to     $300
                                                   exceed 50% of
                                                   actual cost
Notes to Table:
(1) Refer to grass cutting only. In the event that the property is in such
condition that it will require work in excess of regular mowing, quotes will
be obtained prior to the abatement and the charge will be the actual cost
plus an administrative fee not to exceed 50% of the actual cost.
(2) The actual price that will be paid to the contractor doing the work.
 
(Ord. 04-2016, passed - -)
§ 90.25 REMOVAL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS, GRASSES RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   All owners of real estate situated within the corporate limits of the
village are hereby required to cut, destroy or remove all noxious weeds, grass
or other deleterious, unhealthy or noxious growths or accumulations on said
real estate, or on any sidewalk or banquette abutting the same.
   (B)   The weeds, grass or other noxious growth cannot exceed in height 15
inches, and if said owner of real estate is growing for hay then the owner of
said property must cut 20 feet around the property premises (property
boundaries). The height will be maximum 15 inches.
   (C)   In the event any owner of real estate situated within the corporate
limits of the village shall fail or neglect to comply with the provision of
divisions (A) or (B) above, the Mayor is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to cause said real estate to be cleaned by cutting, destroying or
removing such noxious weeds, grass or other deleterious, unhealthy or noxious
growths or accumulations thereon, and/or on the sidewalk or banquette abutting
the same, and assess the cost thereof against such owner by preparing a notice
containing a statement of facts giving the description of the property and the
costs of the work, and file the same in the mortgage records of the parish, and
when so filed to be a lien prior in rank to mortgages, vendor’s privileges and
all other liens except taxes.
   (D)   Additionally, in the event any owner of real estate situated within
the corporate limits of the village shall fail or neglect to comply with the
provision of divisions (A) or (B) above, the Mayor of the village is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to cause said real estate to be cleaned by
cutting, destroying or removing such noxious weeds, grass or other deleterious,
unhealthy or noxious growths or accumulations thereon, and/or on the sidewalk
or banquette abutting the same, and adding the costs of completing said removal
to said real estate’s property tax assessment.
   (E)   However, no such work shall be undertaken by the village pursuant to
this section until the owner of the lot, place or area, or the owner of the
abutting property where the weeds or growths are to be removed, as shown on the
last assessment roll of the village, has an opportunity of doing the work
himself or herself within at least five days after notice has been given to him
or her by advertisement in the official journal of the municipality within
which the same is located for two consecutive days, or after notice has been
given him or her by registered mail addressed in accordance with the tax rolls
of the municipality.
   (F)   However, the village may undertake the cutting, destruction or removal
of noxious weeds or grass or other deleterious, unhealthful or noxious growths
on any property within the village on a monthly basis without the notice
required in division (E) above if the property owner liable has been notified
pursuant to said division (E) above at any time during the immediately
preceding 12 months and has failed to do the work himself or herself after
opportunity to do so. However, prior to undertaking such work, the municipal
governing authority shall file and record an affidavit, signed by the Mayor of
the municipality or his or her designee, at its administrative office. Such
affidavit shall include the following:
      (1)   A description of the property sufficient to reasonably identify it;
      (2)   A photograph of the property sufficient to reasonably identify its
unsafe or unsanitary condition and to justify the necessity for cutting,
destroying or removing weeds, grass or other noxious growths; and
      (3)   A statement that the property owner liable has, within the past 12
months, failed to do such work after notification and opportunity to do so
pursuant to division (E) above.
   (G)   If, after the cutting, destruction or removal of such weeds, grass or
growths by the village after due notice as above provided, the cost or expense
thereof has not been paid within ten days, the tax collector of the
municipality shall furnish the owner, as shown on the last assessment roll of
the municipality, by registered mail, a written statement showing the cost or
expense incurred for the work, and the place or property on which the work was
done. If the said statement is not paid within one month thereafter, the amount
thereof shall be included in and form part of the taxes due by the owner of
said property, and when collected shall be credited to the General Fund of said
municipality.
   (H)   The tax collector shall maintain a record of such charges prior to the
filing of the tax rolls, which record shall be open to inspection at all times
and which shall constitute legal notice to the purchasers of the property, or
parties lending money thereon, of the assessment.
(Ord. 6 of 2025, passed - -)
**** JUNKED ITEMS, DEBRIS ****
§ 90.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED ITEM.
      (1)   Any unused major electrical appliances and/or parts thereof,
including, but not limited to, washing machine(s), clothes drier(s),
refrigerator(s), freezer(s), stove(s), water heater(s) and all furniture and
waste other than agricultural solid waste;
      (2)   Machinery and/or equipment or parts thereof other than junked motor
vehicles and unused major electrical appliances which, by reason of
deterioration through rusting, rotting or otherwise, have become inoperable
and/or unreasonable for the purposes for which they were intended;
      (3)   Construction debris; and/or
      (4)   Waste paper, boxes and crates and/or parts thereof.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.41 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The presence of any junked item on any private lot, tract or parcel of
land, or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved,
within the village shall be deemed and is hereby declared a public nuisance and
it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain such a public nuisance
by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rending inoperable, abandoning
or discarding any junked item on the real property of another or to suffer,
permit or allow any junked item to be parked, left or maintained on his or her
own real property.
   (B)   The presence of any junked item within the public right-of-way
adjoining a private lot, tract or parcel of land that is occupied which is
ineligible for solid waste collection pickup by the Parish Solid Waste Disposal
District shall be deemed and hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 NOTICE TO OWNER TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any junk, refuse, debris, inoperable machinery or
inoperable appliances, including but not limited to refrigerators, freezers and
ranges, located within the village are deemed to be a violation, the Mayor or
his or her designee shall order the owner and occupant of the premises to abate
and remove the same.
      (2)   A notice shall be posted on the front door of the primary dwelling
or building located upon said lot, parcel or tract if so occupied, and a
written notice shall be published in the official journal of the village on one
occasion, which notice shall include the municipal address and name of the
property owner as indicated in the last published tax rolls, directing the
owners and occupants of the lot, parcel or tract to remove said junk, refuse,
debris, inoperable machinery or inoperable appliances, including but not
limited to refrigerators, freezers and ranges, and to comply with the
provisions of the preceding sections within 15 days after posting or publishing
of said notice, not to include weekends or legal holidays, and shall direct
that the failure to remove said junk, refuse, debris, inoperable machinery or
inoperable appliances, including but not limited to refrigerators, freezers and
ranges, may result in the same being removed by the village, or by a contractor
on behalf of the village.
   (B)   This notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Specify the public nuisance and its location;
      (3)   Specify the corrective measures required;
      (4)   Provide for compliance within 15 days from service thereof; and
      (5)   Provide procedures to request a hearing.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.43 MANNER OR SERVICE OF ORDERS AND NOTICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any orders or notices required under this subchapter shall be served
by the following methods.
      (1)   The OWNER OF THE PREMISES shall mean the person listed as owner of
the premises in question on the current parish property tax rolls, and the
address shall be the last address shown on said rolls. Any orders or notices
required to be served on the owner of the premises shall be considered
satisfied by mailing said order or notice to the owner at the last known
address.
      (2)   The OCCUPANT OF THE PREMISES shall mean anyone residing on the
premises in question. Any orders or notices required to be served on the
occupant of the premises shall be considered satisfied by mailing said order or
notice to the occupant at the address on the premises or by attaching the same
to the front door of the residence in question.
   (B)   In those cases where service of notices or orders are made by mail,
service is complete upon the mailing.
   (C)   As an alternative to the foregoing manner of service, notice may be
served by publication once a week for two weeks consecutively in the official
parish journal if the owner or occupant is absent or unable to be served.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.44 HEARING.
   (A)   The owner of the junked item may, within 15 days of the date of the
mailing of the notice, request in writing a hearing to contest the
determination made by the Mayor or his or her designee. In cases where the
notice is not mailed, the request may be made within 15 days from the date on
which it is reasonably calculated that the owner or occupant to be notified
received notice, but not more than 30 days from the date of posting or delivery
of said notice. The request for a hearing must be received within the 15 days
and must be made at the place designated in the notice to the owner.
   (B)   The hearing provided herein shall be conducted before the Village
Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held within a reasonable amount of time after the
filing of the request and the person requesting the hearing shall be notified
in writing of the time and place of the hearing at least five days in advance
thereof. At the hearing, the village or the person requesting the hearing may
introduce such testimony or other evidence as is deemed necessary.
   (D)   If the junked item is not voluntarily removed and no hearing is
requested, or if it is determined at the hearing that the junk item is a public
nuisance, the junked item shall be immediately removed by the village.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.45 FAILURE TO ABATE, REMOVAL.
   In the event the public nuisance is not abated in compliance with the order
of the Mayor or his or her designee within 15 days from the date of such order,
and no hearing is requested timely, the parish government, including law
enforcement personnel, are authorized to enter the premises in question to
remove or cause to be removed the junked item and to dispose of it as follows.
   (A)   Upon the removal of any junked item by reason of a failure to comply
with the parish order of abatement, the junked item becomes the property of the
village without any liability whatsoever to the owner of the premises, the
occupant of the premises, the registered owner or any other party whatsoever.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to contract with one or
more scrap dealers, towing services, contractors and/or dismantlers to provide
for the removal of the junked items as specified in division (A) above, and on
such terms as he or she deems are in the best interest of the village, with
preference being given to a removal at no charge to the village, and in no
event shall the village pay in excess of $500 for the removal of such junked
items.
   (C)   Junked items, other than junked motor vehicles, upon their removal by
the parish may be disposed of by removal to a permitted facility for such
purposes.
   (D)   Any monies received by the Mayor or his or her designee for the junked
items shall be deposited into the General Fund of the village.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.46 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply with regard to:
   (A)   Any junked item in an enclosed building which, for the purpose of this
subchapter, shall include a carport attached to a residence;
   (B)   Any junked item on the premises of a lawfully licensed wrecking yard,
dismantling yard, salvage yard, scrap yard or junk yard; or
   (C)   Any junked item enclosed by a wooden privacy fence measuring the
height of eight feet or higher where junk is not visible.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.47 CHARGE FOR COST OF WORK.
   The actual costs of the work of removing nuisance vehicles or junk, refuse,
debris, inoperable machinery or inoperable appliances, including but not
limited to refrigerators, freezers and ranges, whether performed by village
employees or by contract, shall be charged to the person owning the junked
items or lot, parcel or tract of land, as the case may be, which charges shall
be due and payable on the day of completion of the work.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
§ 90.48 LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   If the full amount due to the village under this subchapter is not
paid within 30 days after completion of the work, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall cause to be recorded in the mortgage records of the parish, a
sworn statement showing the actual cost incurred for the work and the date and
place and property upon which the work was done.
   (B)   The recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and
privilege on the property and shall remain in full force and effect for the
full amount due in principal and interest, recording costs and court costs, if
any, for collection, for a period of ten years from the date of filing. The
said lien and privilege shall be prior in rank to mortgages or vendor
privileges.
(Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
**** ABANDONED, INOPERATIVE, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES ****
§ 90.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED, INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is incapable of being
lawfully moved upon the highways and streets, and includes, but is not limited
to, wrecked or dismantled vehicles. Lack of current and/or valid registration,
inspection sticker or license plate alone does not constitute abandoned,
inoperative condition. Vehicles which are otherwise in compliance with La. R.S.
§§ 32:1301 through 32:1310 are not considered to be ABANDONED, INOPERATIVE
VEHICLES for purposes of this chapter.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle 25 years or older which is operable and
substantially in its original condition. These vehicles must be registered as
antiques and display antique license plates.
   ENFORCING AGENCY. The Chief of Police, as well as his or her duly authorized
agents.
   OWNER OF THE PREMISES. The owner of the land on which the vehicle is
located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
   OWNER OF THE VEHICLE. The last registered owner.
   VEHICLE. Every device by which persons or things may be transported upon a
public highway or bridge, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. A bicycle or a ridden animal shall
be a VEHICLE, and a trailer or semitrailer shall be a separate VEHICLE.
(Ord. 5 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 90.61 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle which is completely enclosed within a building in a manner
that is not otherwise visible from the street or other public or private
property;
   (B)   Any motor vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained at a location were such business is authorized under the
comprehensive zoning ordinance and other regulatory ordinances of the village;
   (C)   Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
constructed for racing or operation on privately owned drag strips or raceways;
   (D)   Any antique vehicle retained by the owner for collection purposes, as
defined herein, rather than for salvage or for transportation; and
   (E)   Any motor vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed
forces the United States who is on active duty assignment.
(Ord. 5 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 90.62 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TO ENTER
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be administered and enforced by the Chief of Police. In the enforcement
of this subchapter, such persons charged with administration and enforcement
may enter upon private or public property to examine the vehicle or parts
thereof, or obtain information as to the identity of a vehicle and to remove or
cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   When the village has contracted with or granted a permit to any person
or persons, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon private
property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 5 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 90.63 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any public nuisance exists on occupied or unoccupied
premises within the village in violation of this subchapter, the enforcing
agency shall order the owner of the vehicle, or the owner or the occupant of
the premises whereon such public nuisance exists, to abate or remove the same.
Such order shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Specify the public nuisance and its location;
         (c)   Specify the corrective measures required;
         (d)   Provide for compliance within 15 days from service thereof; and
         (e)   Provide for opportunity for a hearing by written request
received by the enforcing agency within seven days.
      (2)   The order shall be served upon the owner or occupant of the
premises by serving him or her personally or by sending the order by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the premises and the address
shown by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Within the 15-day period after service of notice, the owner or
occupant of the premises or the owner of the vehicle shall abate the nuisance
by:
         (a)   Removing the nuisance from the premises; or
         (b)   Commencing repairs to the vehicle which shall be completed
within 30 days (an extension not to exceed six months may be given by the
enforcing agency for good cause shown).
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of the
property or owner of the vehicle to notify the enforcing agency as soon as the
vehicle has been removed or as soon as repairs have been completed. Upon
notification, the enforcing agency will set up an appointment in order to
verify that compliance has taken place.
      (5)   If the owner or occupant of the premises or the owner of the
vehicle fails to abate the nuisance within the 15-day period of notification or
fails to timely request a hearing, the enforcing agency may issue a misdemeanor
summons to the owner or occupant of the premises and cause the vehicle to be
removed from the premises in the same manner as provided by state law and local
ordinance.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, when the owner of premises or owner
of the vehicle has been served notice by certified mail as set forth in this
subchapter, and such certified mail is refused, the owner is deemed to have
received notice in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, and the
15-day period commences to run on the date of refusal.
(Ord. 5 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.64 REMOVAL FROM UNOCCUPIED PREMISES, PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   When there is an abandoned or inoperative motor vehicle on
premises that are unoccupied and the identity or whereabouts of the owner of
the premises is unknown or unascertainable after a diligent search has been
made, or if notice sent to the last record owner of the property by certified
mail has been returned as unclaimed, then the enforcing agency shall place an
advertisement in the official journal of village for the whereabouts of the
owner for a period of 15 days. If no response is forthcoming after the 15-day
period, then the enforcing agency may take possession of the motor vehicle and
remove it from the premises. The enforcing agency shall thereafter dispose of
the vehicle in the same manner as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   If notice sent to the occupant of the premises is returned
unclaimed, service may be accomplished by posting the notice on the doorway of
the premises with the 15-day period commencing on the date of posting.
   (B)   Private property owners, whether commercial or residential, have the
power, as authorized by general law, to cause vehicles to be removed from their
property illegally situated thereon. In any case where an owner requests any
law enforcement agency having jurisdiction to cause to be removed from his or
her property a vehicle said by the property owner to be illegally situated on
his or her property and has filed with such law enforcement agency an
acceptable indemnification agreement, such law enforcement agency shall be
authorized and empowered to cause the vehicle to be removed by wrecker service
in accordance with established policies and procedures for obtaining of wrecker
services by law enforcement agencies in the village.
(Ord. 5 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.01 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50.
   (C)   Any violation of §
90.02 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200 or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, within the
discretion of the court. Each day, any violation of any provisions of §
90.02 shall continue to constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   In addition to the enforcement processes and other penalties provided
herein, any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.40 through
90.48 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which any
violation of any of the provisions of §§
90.40 through
90.48 is committed, continued or permitted, shall constitute a separate
offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 or a term of imprisonment of not more than six
months in the parish jail, or both.
   (E)   The failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of §§
90.60 through
90.64 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and the violator shall be subject to the
issuance of a misdemeanor summons. The penalty shall be a fine up to $500 or
six months imprisonment or both for each violation.
(Ord. 2-90, passed 3-13-1990; Ord. 1-94, passed 7-12-1994; Ord. 5 of 2025,
passed 10-13-2025; Ord. 3 of 2026, passed - -2026)
CHAPTER 91: DILAPIDATED, UNINHABITED AND DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
Section
   
91.01   Condemnation
   
91.02   Notice; hearing
   
91.03   Decision; order
   
91.04   Appeal
   
91.05   Removal
   
91.06   Lien
   
91.07   Attorney
§ 91.01 CONDEMNATION.
   The Council, in accordance with La. R.S. §§ 33:4761 et seq., may condemn and
cause to be demolished or removed any building or structure within the village
when it is in a dilapidated, uninhabited and dangerous condition which
endangers the public welfare.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 91.02 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   Before the Council may condemn any building or structure, there must
be submitted to a written report recommending the demolition or removal of the
building signed by the Mayor, who may act on behalf of the village for such
matters. The Mayor shall thereupon serve notice on the owner of the building or
structure requiring him or her to show cause at a meeting of the Council,
regular or special, why the building or structure should not be condemned. The
date and hour of the meeting shall be stated in the notice which shall be
served at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, except in the case
of grave public emergency as hereinafter provided. The notice may be served by
registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner at his or
her last known address. The notice may also be served by the Chief of Police or
by any Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff, or constable having jurisdiction and power to
serve legal process where the owner of the building or structure is found in
the state, and the officer shall make return of the service as in ordinary
cases. If the owner is absent from the state or unrepresented therein, then the
notice shall be served upon the occupant of the condemned building or
structure, if any, and also upon an independent council obtained by the village
and an attorney at law appointed by the Mayor to represent the absentee.
Domiciliary service may be made as in ordinary cases.
   (B)   In case of grave public emergency where the condition of the building
is such as to cause possible immediate loss or damage to person or property,
the Council may condemn the building after 24 hours’ notice served upon the
owner or his or her agent or the occupant, and attorney at law appointed to
represent the absentee owner.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 91.03 DECISION; ORDER.
   (A)   After the hearing if, in the opinion of the Council, the facts justify
it, an order shall be entered condemning the building and ordering that it be
demolished or removed within a certain delay. If repairs will correct the
dilapidated, dangerous or unsafe condition, the Council may grant the owner the
option of making such repairs, but in such a case the general nature or extent
of the repairs to be made, the time thereof and the defects to be corrected
shall be specified in the decision of the Council.
   (B)   The decision and order of the Council shall be in writing and shall be
final unless appealed according to law.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 91.04 APPEAL.
   The owner, occupant, agent or other representative of the owner may appeal
from the decision of the Council in accordance with law.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 91.05 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner or his or her designated agent may proceed to demolish and
remove the building or have it repaired in accordance with the order of the
Council, provided the owner or his or her agent executes a contract in writing
obligating himself or herself to have the work done within the required time
and files with the Mayor a copy of the contract, together with a bond to
guarantee performance. In the event the owner or occupant of the building or
structure fails or refuses to comply with the decision of the Council and fails
to appeal therefrom within legal delays provided herein, then, in that event,
the Mayor may proceed with the demolition or removal of the condemned building,
structure or public nuisance, in which case neither the Mayor nor the village
shall be liable in damages.
   (B)   Prior to the demolition or removal of the building or structure by the
village, the Mayor or some official designated shall serve notice on the owner,
or his or her agent, giving the time when work will begin upon the demolition
or removal of the building, structure or public nuisance.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 91.06 LIEN.
   In order to preserve the lien and privilege granted by law on the property
and the improvements thereon, the Mayor shall execute, and have filed and
recorded in the mortgage office of the parish, an affidavit which shall include
a description of the property sufficient to reasonably identify the immovable
and a statement of facts listing the approximate cost or costs incurred by the
village in demolishing or removing the structure.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
§ 91.07 ATTORNEY.
   In the event the building or structure is unoccupied and its owner is absent
from the state and unrepresented therein, or in the event the building is owned
by a minor who has no tutor or an interdict who has no curator, the Mayor shall
appoint an attorney at law to represent the absentee, minor, or interdict upon
whom the notices and other proceedings provided this chapter may be served. The
attorney shall be paid a reasonable fee to be taxed as cost.
(Ord. 4 of 2025, passed 10-13-2025)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Dogs
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DOGS.
   All dogs owned by citizens of this municipality and by citizens of other
municipalities and situated any located in this municipality are declared to be
personal property of such citizens. However, any citizen may, and the Sheriff,
constable or other police officer of any parish, ward or municipality shall,
seize any dog found unaccompanied by its owner or keeper and running at large
on any road, street or public place, or trespassing on any premises other than
the premises of the owner. If the dog is wearing a collar bearing a tag showing
the name and address of its owner, it shall be impounded, and the citizen or
officer so seizing and impounding the dog shall immediately thereafter, by
written notice, notify said dog owner that the dog has been seized and
impounded, and unless the owner or keeper of the dog shall, within five days
from receipt or notice, claim the dog and pay the village a fee of $20 for
impoundment, it shall be disposed of in any humane manner. Any citizen or
officer may kill any dangerous or vicious dog, and any citizen or officer will
not be held liable to damages or to prosecution by reason of killing any
dangerous or vicious dog.
(Ord. 1-99, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   All owners, custodians and/or keepers of dogs who shall fail to comply with
any provision in §
92.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction by a court
of competent jurisdiction, shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than
$100 for each violation.
(Ord. 1-99, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Open burning
Fireworks
   
93.15   General prohibition
   
93.16   Permissible fireworks
   
93.17   Prohibited types of fireworks
   
93.18   Placing, storing, locating or displaying of fireworks
   
93.19   Unlawful sales
   
93.20   Permissible sales
   
93.21   Exceptions
   
93.22   Burn ban
   
93.23   Ban of use of fireworks during certain time period and for certain
hours
 
   
93.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 93.01 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   The burning of any kind is strictly prohibited within the boundaries
of any public or utility right-of-way, servitude or easement within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or prohibit, in
any way, the rights and privileges granted by La. R.S. §§ 3:3603 through 3:3612
or LAC 33:III § 1109.
   (C)   Any person who believes that burning within the boundaries of any
public or utility right-of-way, servitude or easement is necessary shall apply
for a permit with the village. The village shall determine whether such burning
is necessary.
(Ord. 1 of 2021, passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 93.15 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual, firm, partnership or corporation to
possess, sell or offer for sale or use, within the village any pyrotechnics,
commonly known as fireworks, other than the permissible fireworks enumerated
under La. R.S. § 51:651.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS consist of ICC
Class “C” “common fireworks,” and shall mean such articles of fireworks as are
enumerated or may hereafter be enumerated as ICC Class “C” fireworks in the
regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission for the transportation of
explosives and other dangerous articles, which shall include, but not be
limited to, those items enumerated in La. R.S. § 51:651.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -)
§ 93.17 PROHIBITED TYPES OF FIREWORKS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to authorize the possession, sale,
use or shipment into the village of the types of fireworks which are
specifically prohibited by state law, and it shall be unlawful for any person
in the village to possess, sell or use, for any purpose whatsoever, any of the
following items of commercial fireworks: Cherry bombs, tubular salutes, two-
inch American-made salutes, firecrackers with casings the external dimensions
of which exceed one and one-half inches in length or one-quarter inch in
diameter, repeating bombs, aerial bombs, torpedoes which exceed three-eighths
inch in diameter, Roman candles larger than ten ball and skyrockets larger than
six ounces. It shall also be unlawful for any person to ship into the village
any of the above mentioned items for any purpose whatsoever. The items of
commercial fireworks hereinabove enumerated shall not be considered as public
display fireworks.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 PLACING, STORING, LOCATING OR DISPLAYING OF FIREWORKS.
   The placing, storing, locating or displaying of fireworks in any window
where the sun may shine through glass onto the fireworks so displayed or to
permit the presence of lighted cigars, cigarettes or pipes, within ten feet of
where the fireworks are offered for sale is hereby declared unlawful and
prohibited. At all places where fireworks are stored or sold, there must be
posted signs with the words “Fireworks - No Smoking” in letters not less than
four inches high. No fireworks are to be sold at retail at any location where
paints, oils or varnishes shall be kept for use or sale, unless such paints,
oils and varnishes are kept in the original unbroken containers, nor where
resin, turpentine, gasoline or other flammable substance which may generate
inflammable vapors is used, stored or sold.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 UNLAWFUL SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to offer for retail sale or to sell any fireworks
to children under the age of 15 years, or to any intoxicated or irresponsible
person. It shall also be unlawful to explode or ignite fireworks within 1,000
feet of any church, hospital, asylum, public school or within 75 feet of where
fireworks are stored, sold or offered for sale. No person shall ignite or
discharge any permissible articles of fireworks within or throw the same from a
motor vehicle while within, nor shall any person place or throw any ignited
article of fireworks into or at such a motor vehicle.
   (B)   No permissible articles of fireworks shall be sold, offered for sale,
possessed or used in the village, unless it shall be properly named to conform
to the nomenclature of La. R.S. § 51:651 and unless it is certified as “common
fireworks” on all shipping cases and by imprinting on the article or retail
contained, “ICC Class C - Common Fireworks,” such imprint to be of sufficient
size and so positioned as to be readily recognized by law enforcement
authorities and the general public.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 PERMISSIBLE SALES.
   (A)   Permissible items of fireworks, enumerated in La. R.S. § 51:651 may be
sold at retail from 12:00 p.m. June 25 through 12:00 a.m. July 5, and 12:00
p.m. December 15 through 12:00 a.m. January 1 of each year only, except the
term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper caps containing 25/100ths grains or less of explosive
compounds are used, provided that they are so constructed that the hand cannot
come in contact with the cap when in place for exploding, and toy paper pistol
caps which contain less than 25/100ths grains of explosive compounds, and the
sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   (B)   (1)   Fireworks may be sold at retail on the dates set forth in
division (A) above from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and from 8:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m. on weekends, but may be sold from 8:00 a.m. the morning of
December 31 until 12:00 a.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell fireworks at any time
other than the times provided herein.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing contained in this section shall be held to apply to the following:
   (A)   Possession or use of signaling devices for current daily consumption
by railroads, trucks or vessels requiring them;
   (B)   Pyrotechnic displays of fireworks in public parks, or other open
places, where a permit for such display has been issued by the Chief of the
Fire Department and where, further, proper permit has been secured from the
State Fire Marshal under La. R.S. § 51:655;
   (C)   The possession, sale or use of normal stacks of flashlight
compositions by photographers or dealers in photographic supplies; or
   (D)   The sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -)
§ 93.22 BURN BAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to offer for retail sale or to sell, or use any
fireworks while a burn ban is in effect in the village or a burn ban declared
by the Fire Chief for the village. The Fire Chief of the village shall advise
the public when a burn ban is instituted, whether by the State Fire Marshal or
the Fire Chief, and shall include a notice that the sale and use of fireworks
is prohibited during the burn ban.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to fireworks for public displays as
regulated by the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 BAN OF USE OF FIREWORKS DURING CERTAIN TIME PERIOD AND FOR CERTAIN
HOURS.
   (A)   Fireworks, being those that are permissible fireworks enumerated under
La. R.S. § 51:651, may be used July 3, July 4, December 24, December 25,
December 31 and January 1. It shall be unlawful for any person to use fireworks
at any time other than the above enumerated dates.
   (B)   Fireworks, being those that are permissible fireworks under La. R.S. §
51:651, may be used on the above enumerated dates from 8:00 a.m. to 12:30 a.m.
on July 3, December 24 and December 31, and from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. on
July 4, December 25 and January 1. It shall be unlawful for any person to use
fireworks at any time other than the above enumerated times.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall limit the ability of the proper authorities to
ban the use of fireworks during a burn ban as set forth in division (A) above.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall be held to apply to the
following:
      (1)   Use of signaling devices for current daily consumption by
railroads, trucks or vessels requiring them;
      (2)   Pyrotechnic displays of fireworks in public parks, or other open
places, where a permit for such display has been issued by the Chief of the
Fire Department and, where further proper permit has been secured from the
State Fire Marshal under La. R.S. § 51:655;
      (3)   The use of normal stacks of flashlight compositions by
photographers or dealers in photographic supplies;
      (4)   The use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or athletic
events; and
      (5)   The use of toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in
which paper caps containing 25/100ths grains or less of explosive compounds are
used; provided, that they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in
contact with the cap when in place for exploding, and toy paper pistol caps
which contain less than 25/100ths grains of explosive compounds.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -; Ord. 01-2017, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $250 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days
or both such fine and imprisonment within the discretion of the court.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.22, or any part thereof, shall be subject to immediate revocation of his,
her or their permit and further shall be punished as provided hereinafter in
this chapter.
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
93.23, or any part thereof, shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   For a first offense within a period of 12 months, there shall be a
fine of $100.
      (2)   For the second offense and subsequent offenses within a 12-month
period, the penalty shall be a fine of up to $300 and/or imprisonment for not
more than 90 days.
(Ord. 11 of 2015, passed - -; Ord. 01-2017, passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   CABLE OR VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
113.   BUSINESS LICENSING
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Annual license tax
   
110.02   Adoption of state laws
   
110.03   Peddlers
   
110.04   Failure to pay; interest
Specific Businesses
   
110.15   Electric utilities businesses
   
110.16   Insurers
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   There is hereby levied an occupational license tax for the year 2003 and for
each subsequent year, upon each person pursuing and conducting any business,
trade, calling, profession or vocation, within the corporate limits of the
village subject to license under the State Constitution and laws of this state.
(Ord. 3, of 1987, passed 6-9-1987; Ord. 03-02, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 110.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.
   The amount of the license tax levied in each case is hereby fixed,
determined and ordained to be the same as that fixed, levied and collectable by
the governing authority under, and shall be granted in accordance with, the
provisions of La. R.S. Title 47, Chapter 3, inclusive, as amended, and all
other applicable laws, all of which, for the purpose of this section, are made
a part hereof by reference as if written herein.
(Ord. 3, of 1987, passed 6-9-1987; Ord. 03-02, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 110.03 PEDDLERS.
   All peddlers, as defined by La. R.S. § 47:359(C), shall obtain a license
costing $50 (maximum of $200).
(Ord. 3, of 1987, passed 6-9-1987; Ord. 03-02, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY; INTEREST.
   All license taxes levied herein shall be due and payable on January 1 of
each year, and all unpaid license taxes shall become delinquent on March 1.
   (A)   When any taxpayer fails to pay the tax, or any portion thereof, on or
before March 1, interest at the rate of 1.25% per month shall be added to the
amount of tax due, and such interest shall be computed from the due date until
the tax is paid.
   (B)   In addition to the interest charged on delinquent taxes, there shall
be imposed a penalty of 5% of the total tax due if the failure or delinquency
is for not more than 30 days, with an additional 5% for each additional 30 days
or fraction thereof during which the failure or delinquency continues, not to
exceed 25% of the tax in the aggregate.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 6-10-2002)
**** SPECIFIC BUSINESSES ****
§ 110.15 ELECTRIC UTILITIES BUSINESSES.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to all other taxes of every kind now imposed by law,
every person, firm, corporation or association of persons engaged in the
electric utility business in the village shall be subject to the payment of an
excise license or privilege tax of 2% of the gross receipts from the sales or
said business within the village limits of the village except the receipts from
the sales or service to or rendered the village or any state or governmental
agency, or any industrial business within the village limits.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, SALES shall be construed to mean
and cover only sales of electricity.
   (B)   Said tax shall be payable quarterly and shall become delinquent 30
days after the expiration date of each quarter. The first payment of said tax
shall be made within 30 days after the end of the first quarter of 1961 and
shall cover all taxable receipts collected by the utility in the period
extending from the date of January 1, 1961, through March 31.
   (C)   If, pursuant to specific legislative authority, the village shall at
any time in the future levy an excise tax, license or privilege tax, equal to
or in excess of the tax as herein levied, then and in that event, the tax levy
herein made shall cease as of the effective date of said future levy, and if
such future levy by less than the tax herein levied, then and in that event,
the tax herein levied shall ipso facto immediately be reduced to an amount
which added to the future levy will make 2%.
(Ord. 3 of 1961, passed - -)
§ 110.16 INSURERS.
   There is hereby imposed and levied by the village an annual license tax on
any insurer engaged in the business of issuing any form of insurance policy or
contract, which may now or hereafter be subject to the payment of any license
tax for state purposes, all as authorized by La. R.S. § 22:1076 on risks
located in this municipality, as follows.
   (A)   On any insurer engaged in the business of issuing life or accident or
health insurance policies or other forms of contract or obligations covering
such risk or issuing endowment or annuity policies, or contracts, or other
similar forms of contract obligations in consideration of the payment of a
premium or other consideration for the issuance of such policies, contracts or
obligations whether such insurer by operating in this state or through an agent
or other representative or an additional license thereafter of $70 on each
$10,000, or fraction thereof, of gross annual premiums in excess of $2,000. The
maximum license on such businesses, payable to the municipality by any on
insurer, shall not exceed $21,000.
   (B)   On any insurer engaged in the business of issuing policies, contracts
or other forms of obligations covering the risk of fire, marine,
transportation, surety, fidelity, indemnity, guaranty, workers’ compensation,
employees liability, property damage, livestock, vehicle, automatic sprinkler,
burglary or insurance business of any other kind whatsoever in this state,
whether such insurer is operating in this state through agents or other
representatives or otherwise, shall be as allowed by the aforementioned
statutes.
      (1)   First Class. When the gross receipts are not more than $2,000, the
license shall be $10.
      (2)   Second Class. When the gross receipts are more than $2,000 and not
more than $4,000, the license shall be $60.
      (3)   Third Class. When the gross receipts are not more than $4,000 and
not more than $6,000, the license shall be $80.
      (4)   Fourth Class. When the gross receipts exceed $6,000, the additional
license thereafter shall be $70 for each $10,000 or fraction thereof in excess
of $6,000.
   (C)   The maximum license tax on such businesses, payable to this
municipality by an insurer, shall not exceed the maximum limit of $9,000, as
provided for by La. R.S. § 22:1076; provided, that plate glass and steam boiler
inspection insurance shall pay only one-third of the rates provided in division
(B) above; and provided further, that the amount of license payable to this
municipality as fixed by this section, shall be one-third of the amount so
fixed if the payer shall file a sworn statement with the annual report required
by La. R.S. § 22, showing that at least one-sixth of the total admitted assets
of the payer, less assets in an amount equal to the reserves on its policies
issued in foreign countries requires and investment therein as a condition of
doing business, is invested and maintained, either in bond of the state or in
bonds of municipal, school, road or levee districts, or other political
subdivisions of this state or in mortgages on property located in this state,
or in real property in this state which shall be requisite for the convenient
accommodation of the transaction of its own business, or in policy loans, or
other loans to residents of this state, or to corporations organized under the
laws of this state and domiciled in this state, or in stock of homestead
building or loan associations organized under the laws of this state, to the
extend such stock is guaranteed or insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or other federal or state agency.
   (D)   All license taxed levied herein shall be due and payable on January 1
of each year, and all unpaid license taxes shall become delinquent on March 1.
The collection of delinquent accounts shall be enforced in accordance with La.
R.S. §§ 47:1601 and 47:1602.
(Ord. 4, 1987, passed 6-9-1987)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Tax on malt beverages and beverages of a low alcoholic content
   
111.02   Hours of sale
   
111.03   Remaining on premises outside hours of sales prohibited
   
111.04   Consumption of alcohol in the corporate limits
   
111.05   Location of business premises
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 TAX ON MALT BEVERAGES AND BEVERAGES OF A LOW ALCOHOLIC CONTENT.
   (A)   By virtue of the authority granted by La. R.S. § 26:493, there is
hereby levied, in addition to all other excises, licenses or privileges taxes
presently imposed, a tax on all malt beverages and beverages of a low alcoholic
content, as defined in La. R.S. § 26:241, of $1.50 per standard barrel of 31
gallons or any like rate of any other quantity, or for the fractional parts of
such barrel sold or distributed for consumption in the village within the
meaning and intent of the provisions of La. R.S. § 26:493.
   (B)   The tax herein levied shall be collected by any and all state
wholesale dealers from their vendees purchasing for consumption in the village,
on each sale, and shall be remitted by said wholesale dealers to the State
Collector of Revenue, for each month, on or before the twentieth day of each
succeeding month, respectively, all in accordance with rules and regulations
promulgated by the Collector of Revenue and as provided by La. R.S. § 26:493.
   (C)   Failure of the wholesale dealer to collect and remit the tax levied,
when due, or failure to pay the tax, when due, by the purchaser for consumption
in the village shall, ipso facto, render each of them liable for the amount of
taxes found to be due, together with a penalty of 20% of the amount of tax due,
plus an additional amount of 10% of the tax and penalty, as attorneys’ fees if
referred to an attorney for collection.
   (D)   This chapter shall become effective October 15, 1961, and shall apply
to all sales of the above described liquids made on and after October 15, 1961.
(Ord. 8 of 1961, passed 9-18-1961)
§ 111.02 HOURS OF SALE.
   A clarification of the hours of sale and serving of alcoholic beverages in
any business or establishment within the village to reflect that it shall be
unlawful for anyone to sell or to serve any and all alcoholic beverages in any
business or establishment between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. daily.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 REMAINING ON PREMISES OUTSIDE HOURS OF SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to patronize or otherwise be
located in or on the premises of any place of business or establishment where
any and all alcoholic beverages are being sold between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. daily. It shall also be unlawful for the owner, manager,
operator, agent and/or employees of any establishment where any and all
alcoholic beverages are being sold or served to permit anyone to enter or
otherwise remain in or on the premises thereof between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. daily.
   (B)   Any person(s) in the place of business or establishment or upon the
premises where any and all alcoholic beverages are being sold or served shall
promptly absent themselves therefrom at 2:00 a.m. daily and the owner, manager,
operator, agent and or employees of such place of business or establishment
shall cause the premises where any and all alcoholic beverages are being sold
or served to be vacated by all persons, except the owner, manager, operator,
agent and or employees promptly at the hour of 2:00 a.m. daily. All other
persons, including the owner, manager, operator, agent and employees, shall
vacate the premises of place of business or establishment no later than 2:30
a.m. daily.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN THE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any and all persons to consume any and all
alcoholic beverages in a public place of business or establishment within the
village corporate limits between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. daily.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 LOCATION OF BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted under this chapter in contravention of any
village or ordinance adopted pursuant to the zoning laws of the state or
provisions of any village ordinance.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted for any premises permitted to deal in
alcoholic beverages situated within 300 feet or less of a public or private
playground or of a building used exclusively as a church or synagogue, public
library, school, full-time daycare center, as defined by La. R.S. § 17:405(A)
(4), or a correctional facility housing inmates, including, but not limited to,
a halfway house.
   (C)   All parties presently operating an alcoholic beverage business under a
valid permit shall be allowed to continue operating said businesses. The
purchaser of any alcoholic beverage business operating under a valid permit
shall continue operation of said business the same terms that applied to the
seller.
(Ord. 5 of 2021, passed - -2021)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, specifically
including, but not limited to, the owner, manager, operator, agent and/or
employees of the place of business or establishment, for the first offense,
shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned in the Parish Jail for not more
than 30 days, or both, at the discretion of the court. In addition, any license
and/or permit the violator has obtained from the village may be suspended by
the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Upon the second violation, the violator shall be punished by a fine of
$500, imprisoned not more 30 days, or both, and any license or permit obtained
from the village shall be suspended for not more than 15 days. Upon the third
violation, the violator shall be punished by a $500 fine and imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both and any permit or license obtained from the village
shall be permanently revoked.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE OR VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
   
112.01   State-issued certificate of franchise authority required
   
112.02   PEG access support
§ 112.01 STATE-ISSUED CERTIFICATE OF FRANCHISE AUTHORITY REQUIRED.
   All persons or entities providing cable or video services to the citizens of
the village pursuant to a state-issued certificate of franchise authority as
provided in La. R.S. §§ 45:1361 et seq. shall, pursuant to the provisions of
La. R.S. § 45:1366, pay the village a franchise fee equal to 5% of the cable or
video service provider’s gross revenues, as that term is defined by the
Consumer Choice for Television Act of 2008, La. R.S. § 45:1361, derived from
operations within the village’s municipal limits.
(Ord. 06-08, passed - -)
§ 112.02 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of La. R.S. §§ 45:1361 et seq., providers of
cable or video services holding a state-issued certificate of franchise
authority as provided in La. R.S. §§ 45:1361 et seq. and operating within the
village’s municipal limits shall pay to the village an amount equal to 0.5% of
the gross revenues, as that term is defined by the Consumer Choice for
Television Act of 2008, La. R.S. § 45:1361, derived from operations within the
village’s municipal limits.
(Ord. 07-08, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
113.01   Occupational license fees
§ 113.01 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The license fees for the occupational licenses issued by the village
shall be flat fee of $50 per year.
   (B)   All occupational licenses will be issued for the calendar year of
January 1 through December 31. All occupational license fees shall be due by
March 31 of each year. Occupational license fees will be considered delinquent
if not paid by March 31 and on April 1 will assessed a penalty of $100. No new
occupational license will be issued until all outstanding fees and penalties
are paid. Additionally, the village will report any unpaid fees and penalties
to the collections agency for collections and will give a 30-day notice of non-
compliance to any business without an up to date occupational license, and
thereafter the Chief of Police shall issue a cease-and-desist letter. Notice
for occupation license renewals will be mailed out on November 1 of each year.
(Ord. 1 of 2026, passed - -2026)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal offenses defined
   
130.02   Minors in pool or billiard halls
   
130.03   Houses of prostitution
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL OFFENSES DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORIES. An ACCESSORY AFTER THE FACT is any person who, after the
commission of a criminal offense, shall harbor, conceal or aid the offender,
knowing or having reasonable ground to believe that he or she has committed a
breach of the law, and with the intent that he or she may avoid or escape the
arrest, trial, conviction or punishment. An ACCESSORY AFTER THE FACT may be
tried and punished notwithstanding the fact that the principal may not have
been arrested, tried, convicted or amenable to justice.
   ASSAULT. The attempt to commit battery, or the intentional placing of
another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
   ASSISTING ESCAPE. The active assistance given by any person to one who is in
legal custody to aid him or her in escaping therefrom.
   ATTEMPT. Any person, who having a specific intent to commit a breach of the
law, does or omits an act for the specific purpose of, and tending directly
toward, the accomplishing of his or her objects is guilty of an ATTEMPT to
commit the offense intended; and it shall be immaterial whether, under the
circumstances, he or she would actually accomplished his or her purpose.
   BATTERY. The intentional use of force or violence upon the person of
another, without the consent of the victim.
   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF. The intentional performance of any of the following acts:
      (1)   Tampering with any property, whether public or private property, of
another, without the intent to interfere with the free enjoyment of any rights
of anyone thereto, or with the intent to deprive anyone entitled thereto of the
use of such property; or
      (2)   Giving of any false alarm of fire.
   DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS AND AIR GUNS OF ANY TYPE. The intentional discharge
of any firearms or airgun within the corporate limits of the village, unless
such discharge is reasonably required for the protection of life or property.
   DISTURBING THE PEACE. The doing of any of the following in such a manner as
would foreseeably disturb or alarm the public:
      (1)   Engaging in a physical encounter;
      (2)   Using of any unnecessarily loud, offensive, or insulting language;
      (3)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (4)   Engaging in any act in a violent and tumultuous manner by any three
or more persons;
      (5)   Interruption of any lawful assembly of people; or
      (6)   Commission of any act in such a manner as to unreasonably disturb
or alarm the public.
   ESCAPE. The intentional departure of any person under the circumstances
wherein human life is not endangered from lawful custody of any officer or from
any place where he or she is lawfully detained by any officer of the village.
   ILLEGAL CARRYING OF WEAPONS. The intentional concealment of any firearm, or
any other instrumentality capable of use as a dangerous weapon, on one’s
person.
   INDECENT BEHAVIOR. The intentional:
      (1)   Indecent public exposure of one’s person;
      (2)   Performance, in any public place or in any public manner, of any
act of lewdness or indecency, scandalous or tending to debauch the morals and
manners of the people; or
      (3)   Solicitation or attempt to entice another to do any of the act
above listed in this definition.
   KEEPING AND LETTING A DISORDERLY PLACE. The maintaining of a place to be
used habitually for any illegal or immoral purpose; letting a disorderly place
is the granting of the right to use any premises knowing that they are to be
used as a disorderly place; or allowing the continued use of the premises with
such knowledge.
   OPERATING A VEHICLE WHILE INTOXICATED. The operating of any motor vehicle or
other means of conveyance by a person under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or narcotic drugs.
   PEEPING TOM. The unlawful looking into or attempting to look into any
dwelling or structure in an effort to violate the privacy of any person
therein.
   PRINCIPALS. All persons concerned in the commission of a crime, whether
present or absent, and whether they directly commit the act constituting the
offense, aid and abet in its commission, or directly or indirectly counsel or
procure another to commit the crime.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER. The opposition or resistance to, or obstruction of, an
individual acting in his or her official capacity and authorized by law to
execute any investigation, arrest or other lawful process or court order.
   VAGRANCY. The following persons are and shall be guilty of VAGRANCY:
      (1)   Habitual drunkards;
      (2)   Able-bodied persons who wander about and solicit alms as a
business, provided that this definition shall not apply to persons soliciting
for bona fide religious, or charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the
authorization thereof;
      (3)   Able-bodied persons without visible means of support;
      (4)   Persons who are found on the streets of the village or in or near
any structure, private or public, without being able to account for presence
there; and
      (5)   Prostitutes.
(Ord. 3 of 1960, passed 11-21-1960) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Attempt; penalties, see La. R.S. § 14:27
   Battery defined, see La. R.S. § 14:33
   Criminal mischief, see La. R.S. § 14:59
   Disturbing the peace, see La. R.S. § 14:103
   Escape, see La. R.S. §§ 14:110 and 14:111
   Letting a disorderly place, see La. R.S. §§ 14:105 and 33:401(7)
   Operating a vehicle while impaired, see La. R.S. § 14:98
   Parties classified, see La. R.S. §§ 14:23 through 14:25
   Peeping Tom, see La. R.S. § 14:284
   Resisting an officer, see La. R.S. § 14:108
   Vagrancy, see La. R.S. §§ 14:107 and 33:4874
   Weapons, see La. R.S. §§ 14:94 and 14:95
§ 130.02 MINORS IN POOL OR BILLIARD HALLS.
   No person, whether proprietor, agent, manager, employee, lessee or
otherwise, conducting or carrying on any place where pool or billiard games of
any sort are operated for; or otherwise shall allow or permit minors under the
age of 17 years within the place or to be employed therein, or to be engaged or
take part in any games of pool or billiards, or to use or play upon any pool or
billiard tables.
(Ord. 3 of 1960, passed 11-21-1960) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see La. R.S. §§ 14:283 and 33:4854
§ 130.03 HOUSES OF PROSTITUTION.
   No person shall maintain, operate, or knowingly own any place or any
conveyance used for the purpose of lewdness, assignation or prostitution, or
shall rent or let any place or conveyance to any person with knowledge of or
good reason to believe that the lessee intends to use the place or conveyance
for the purposes of lewdness, assignation or prostitution; or reside in, enter
or remain in any place for the purpose of lewdness, assignation or
prostitution.
(Ord. 3 of 1960, passed 11-21-1960) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see La. R.S. § 33:301(32)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, persons or association of persons attempting to commit or
committing any of the criminal offenses defined in this chapter be fined not
more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both; provided, that
any person, persons or association of persons convicted of the violation of
operating a vehicle while intoxicated shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 60 days.
(Ord. 3 of 1960, passed 11-21-1960)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see La. R.S. § 33:401(32)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Offenses
   
131.03   Defenses
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   From 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   From 11:59 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday until 6:00 a.m. of the
following day.
   CUSTODIAN. A parent, as defined in the State Children’s Code, Article 116,
or a person with legal custody as defined in the State Children’s Code, Article
116, or a person to whom the care or supervision of the child has been
temporarily and lawfully delegated or assigned.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest path of travel through a public place to reach a
final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. Any circumstance, situation or occurrence which may produce or
result in serious consequences and required immediate action. An EMERGENCY
includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile
accident or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent substantial
property damage or serious injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place where business is carried on for a
profit or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is
invited.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age who has not been emancipated under
state law.
   PERMIT. To knowingly allow or knowingly fail to prevent, or to fail to
prevent due to lack of reasonable efforts or concern or due to failure to
supervise or control.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, private street, sidewalk, corner, road,
highway, avenue, alley, park, playground, wharf, dock, public building and
appurtenant open space, vacant lot or other place used by or open to the
public.
   REMAIN. To tarry, stay, loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play.
(Ord. 2 of 2024, passed - -2024)
§ 131.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
   (B)   A custodian of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly
permits or by insufficient control allows a minor to remain in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
(Ord. 2 of 2024, passed - -2024)
§ 131.03 DEFENSES.
   The following are defenses to violations charged under this section. This
chapter shall not apply to minors who are:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s custodian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s custodian and while using
a direct route;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity pursuant to the minor’s custodian’s
direction, or going to or returning home from such an employment activity and
using a direct route;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On a sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the residence
of a nextdoor neighbor, absent a complaint communicated to a police officer by
the nextdoor neighbor concerning the minor’s presence; and
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreation activity
supervised by adults or sponsored by the village or another public body, a
civic organization or other similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from such an activity by a direct route.
(Ord. 2 of 2024, passed - -2024)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any minor who violates the provisions of this chapter, upon the first
offense, will be given a warning to include notification of the specific
illegal conduct observed and of the consequences of subsequent violations. The
minor’s custodian will also be issued written notice of a first offense which
will include a description of the illegal conduct and the consequences of
subsequent violations.
   (B)   Any minor found to be in violation of the provision of this chapter,
upon a second offense within a 24-month period, shall be adjudicated a
delinquent child, as defined by Ch. C. Art. 804(4), shall be found guilty of a
misdemeanor-grade delinquent act, as defined by Ch. C Art. 804(8), and shall be
punished by one or more of the following:
      (1)   An appropriate amount of community service not to exceed 30 hours;
and/or
      (2)   A transfer of custody of the minor from the minor’s custodian to
the Department of Youth Services and Corrections for a period not to exceed 90
days.
   (C)   Any custodian of a minor found to be in violation of this chapter,
upon a second offense within a 24-month period, shall be found guilty of a
misdemeanor which shall be punishable by one or more of the following:
      (1)   A fine of not less than $200 and not more than $500; and/or
      (2)   An appropriate amount of community service not to exceed 30 hours.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C) above, if a court of
competent jurisdiction finds that the custodian of a juvenile has exercised
reasonable diligence in order to prevent a violation under this chapter, the
court shall not impose any penalty upon the custodian but may impose any
penalty which is appropriate under this section upon the juvenile found in
violation thereof.
(Ord. 2 of 2024, passed - -2024)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
152.   MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES NOT LOCATED WITHIN AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME
PARK
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Building permits required
   
150.02   Uniform Construction Code adopted
   
150.03   Building Codes adopted
   
150.04   Building inspections and permit fee schedule
   
150.05   Drainage culverts
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons building or locating a residence, commercial building,
movable dwelling or structure of any kind, upon a lot in the village shall
apply at the Village Hall office for a permit before beginning any construction
or location activity whatsoever. Upon receipt of initial application for a
permit, the applicant, spouse or person with power of attorney for applicant
will appear in person at Parish Health Unit to complete application forms. Upon
approval by the Parish Health Unit of the sewerage and sanitation facilities
proposed, and upon approval by the permit officer for the village of the
proposed construction, a temporary permit shall be issued for construction
purposes only.
   (B)   No utility company shall provide service until a tag issued by the
Parish Health Unit is placed on the electrical box attesting to the fact that
permits or affidavits have been acquired and are in order. An orange tag
signifies temporary service for construction purposes, a green tag signifies
completion of final permit and acceptance of sewer facilities and a yellow tag
signifies an affidavit.
   (C)   Upon issuance of the temporary permit and an orange tag for the
electrical box, utility companies may provide temporary utility service for
construction purposes only to the proposed building site.
   (D)   Charge for a permit will be $50, which is to be collected on the
issuance of the temporary permit.
   (E)   The final permit will be issued by the village upon receipt of
approved permits from the Parish Health Unit stating that the applicant has
complied with all regulations and rules of the Parish Health Unit, all State
Health Codes and all ordinances of the parish, with regard to sewerage, water
and sanitation systems. On the completion of the final permit a green tag for
the electrical box will be issued.
   (F)   (1)   Whenever a permit is not required the applicant will complete an
affidavit attesting to the reasons an electrical connection is needed and
further granting permission to the utility company to disconnect utilities
immediately if the affidavit is violated or falsified.
      (2)   Charge for an affidavit will be $10 and is non-refundable. The
Parish Health Unit will place a yellow tag on the electrical box if the
affidavit is approved.
      (3)   Violations of affidavits will result in immediate disconnection of
utilities and loss of $10 fee.
      (4)   Affidavits are issued for buildings existing prior to May of 1980,
which have not been remodeled, altered or relocated; buildings lost by a
natural disaster; welding machines; security lights; water well; billboards;
and the like.
   (G)   Any person inhabiting or operating a building or structure in
violation of this section shall be subject to an injunction prohibiting further
operation or habitation of a building erected or moved onto a site until a
final permit complying with all regulations and rules of the Parish Health Unit
and State Health Code and/or ordinances of the village in regard to sewerage,
water and sanitation systems have been obtained.
   (H)   Occupants of residences and/or buildings destroyed by a natural
disaster (tornado, fire, wind storm, flood and the like) shall be granted a
one-time exemption from having to install a new sewer system if the occupant
applies for a permit to replace existing residence or building within one year
from the date of the loss, provided date of loss is verified and approved by
the Board of Aldermen and further that the occupant applying for a waiver is
the same occupant that suffered the loss.
   (I)   A temporary permit will be valid for a six-month period. The applicant
will have six months from the date the temporary permit is completed to have
the final permit completed by the Parish Health Unit and permit officer.
Failure to complete the final permit in the time allocated will result in
cancellation of the temporary permit, loss of permit fee and loss of utilities.
(Ord. 1992.-#3, passed 12-8-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2007, pursuant to La. R.S. §§ 40:1730.21 et seq.,
there is hereby adopted, for the purpose of regulating the construction,
alterations, repair, equipment, use and occupancy and maintenance of every
building or structure or any appurtenance connected or attached to such
buildings or structures, excluding farm structures and recreational camps, the
State Uniform Construction Code. The State Uniform Construction Code is
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   The State Uniform Construction Code shall consist of the following:
      (1)   International Building Code, 2006 Edition, not including Chapter 1
Administration, Chapter 11 Accessibility, Chapter 27 Electrical and Chapter 29
Plumbing Systems. The applicable standards referenced in that code are included
for regulations of construction within this state;
      (2)   International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, not including
Chapter 1 Administration, and the standards referenced in that code for
regulations of construction within this state;
      (3)   International Residential Code, 2006 Edition, not including Parts I
Administrative, V Mechanical, VII Plumbing and VIII Electrical. The applicable
standards referenced in that code are included for regulation of construction
within this state. Appendix J. Existing Buildings and Structures, is also
included for mandatory regulation. For the purposes of this Part, IRC
R301.2.1.1 (Design Criteria) shall be amended as follows and shall only apply
to the International Residential Code, 2006 edition:
         (a)   Amendment of R301.2.1.1 (Design Criteria);
         (b)   Item 6, The American Concrete Institute, Guide to Concrete
Masonry Residential Construction in High Winds Areas, shall be added;
         (c)   Item 7, Institute for Business & Home Safety, Optional Code-plus
Fortified for Safer Living, shall be added; and
         (d)   Item 8, Federal Alliance for Safe Homes, Optional Code-plus
Blueprint for Safety, shall be added.
      (4)   International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition, and the standards
referenced in that code for regulation of construction within this state;
      (5)   The State Plumbing Code (Part XIV (Plumbing) of the State Sanitary
Code) as amended by the State Health Officer acting through the Office of
Public Health of the Department of Health and Hospitals. Nothing in this Part
shall be construed so as to prevent the State Health Officer for enforcing Part
XIV (Plumbing) of the State Sanitary Code, the enforcement of which is his or
her statutory and regulatory responsibility;
      (6)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition, and the standards
referenced in that code for regulation of construction within this state; and
      (7)   National Electrical Code, 2005 Edition.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 12-11-2006)
§ 150.03 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby amends this code to implement each of the
most currently adopted codes, along with any amendments thereto; also included
is the adoption of each code’s Chapter 1, Scope and Administration, in
accordance with the provisions of La. R.S. §§ 40:1730.26 and 40:1730.28,
relative to the authority of the State Uniform Construction Code Council
(LSUCCC) and as promulgated and enforced according with La. R.S. § 49:953(B),
by the Administrative Procedure Act, La. R.S. §§ 49:950 et seq., the Department
of Public Safety and Corrections, Office of the State Fire Marshal and State
Uniform Construction Code Council (LSUCCC); and to further provide that
hereafter the then most current versions of said codes shall be incorporated
into this code of ordinances through amendment of same, without the necessity
of further action on the part of the Village Council or the Village
Administration, upon the then most current version of each said code being
adopted and promulgated by the official body or agency responsible for same.
Those codes at issue, which are the subject of, and are affected by, this
section are listed in division (B) below.
   (B)   Codes, including applicable amendments, are as follows:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC);
      (2)   International Existing Building Code (IEBC);
      (3)   International Residential Code (IRC);
      (4)   International Mechanical Code (IMC);
      (5)   International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC);
      (6)   National Electrical Code; and
      (7)   State Plumbing Code (Part XIV Plumbing of the State Sanitary Code).
   (C)   Optional code: International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC).
(Ord. 02-2015, passed - -)
§ 150.04 BUILDING INSPECTIONS AND PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule as set forth by BCIS relative to all inspections performed
by BCIS in connection with all building codes set forth by the Mayor and
Village Council is hereby adopted.
Commercial A/C Permit Fee Schedule
Commercial A/C Permit Fee Schedule
New/renovation/addition
Up to 3 tons                        $50
4 to 10 tons                        $70
11 tons and above (per ton)         $7
Each grill (add to tonnage)         $6
Each VAV diffusers (add to tonnage) $25
Apartments, new
Per package system                  by tonnage
Per component                       $30
Per grill (add to tonnage)          $2
Apartments, renovation
Per component                       $50
Per grill                           $2
General
Re-inspection                       $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection            $50 paid directly to BCIS
Over time inspection                $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections                 $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee                 Double fee
Commercial Building Permits
Commercial Building Permits
New/renovation/addition/demolition
$5 per $1,000 fair market value of improvement with a $100 minimum
Plan review:
 Per sheet                $10
 Minimum                  $100
Sign
$5 per $1,000 fair market value of improvement with a $50 minimum
General
 Out of town inspection   $150 paid directly to BCIS
 Re-inspection            $50 paid directly to BCIS
 Extra/partial inspection $50 paid directly to BCIS
 Overtime inspection      $50 paid directly to BCIS
 General inspections      $50 paid directly to BCIS
 “No permit” fee      Double fee
Commercial Electrical Permit Fee Schedule
Commercial Electrical Permit Fee Schedule
Apartments (per unit plus circuits) $125  
New/renovation/addition
Under 1,000 amps                         $50
Under 2,000 amps                         $60
Under 3,000 amps                         $70
Under 4,000 amps                         $80
Equal to or over 4,000 amps              $90
Circuit charge                           $4
# of service/meters (each)          $50
Temp pole                           $50
General
Pool                     $50
Sign                     $50
Re-inspection            $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection      $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections      $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee      Double fee
Commercial Plumbing Permit Fees
Commercial Plumbing Permit Fees
(this column per item)                        General                   
Water closets         $5                      General                  $50
Tubs                  $5                      Water service            $50
Lavatories            $5                      Sewer service            $50
Sinks                 $5                      Gas service              $50
Clothes washer        $5                      Rough-in                 $50
Dish washer           $5                      Water heater replacement $50
Showers               $5                      Smoke test               $50
Floor drains          $5                      Smoke test repair        $50
Water heater          $5                      Storm drain per rough-in $50
Electric water cooler $5                      Storm drain              $50
Urinals               $5                      Grease trap              $50
Misc. fixtures        $5                      Backflow preventer       $50
Storm/roof drain      $5
Re-inspection            $50 paid directly to
                         BCIS
Extra/partial inspection $50 paid directly to
                         BCIS
Overtime inspection      $50 paid directly to
                         BCIS
General inspections      $50 paid directly to
                         BCIS
“No permit” fee      Double fee
Mobile Home Permit Fee Schedule
Mobile Home Permit Fee Schedule
Electrical - service     $50
Plumbing - water         $50
Plumbing - sewer         $50
Mechanical - A/C         $50
Out of town inspection   $150 paid directly to BCIS
Re-inspection            $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection      $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections      $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee      Double fee
Modular Home Permit Fee Schedule
Modular Home Permit Fee Schedule
Plan review                        $70
Building - steps/landings          $100
Electrical - service               $50
Electrical - temp pole (if needed) $50
Plumbing - water                   $50
Plumbing - sewer                   $50
Mechanical - A/C                   $50
Out of town inspection             $150 paid directly to BCIS
Re-inspection                      $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection           $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection                $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections                $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee                Double fee
Movable Home Permit Fee Schedule
Movable Home Permit Fee Schedule
Plan review (remodel/addition only) $70
Building - steps/landings           $100
Electrical - service                $50
Electrical - temp pole (if needed)  $50
Plumbing - water                    $50
Plumbing - sewer                    $50
Mechanical - A/C                    $50
Out of town inspection              $150 paid directly to BCIS
Re-inspection                       $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection            $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection                 $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections                 $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee                 Double fee
Residential Building Permit Fee Schedule
Residential Building Permit Fee Schedule
                                   $3.50 per $1,000 fair market value as
                                   declared by the owner or $82.48 per square
                                   foot under roof based on the National
New/renovation/addition/demolition Association of Home Builders Southern
                                   regional average price per square foot for
                                   the year 2007 (see http://www.nahb.org)
                                   whichever is more
House moving                       $150
Plan review                        $70
Out of town inspection             $150 paid directly to BCIS
Re-inspection                      $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection           $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection                $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections                $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee                Double fee
Residential Electrical Permit Fees
Residential Electrical Permit Fees
New/renovation/addition
Under 2,000 sq. ft. of living            $100
Under 3,000 sq. ft. of living            $125
Under 4,000 sq. ft. of living            $150
Equal to or over 4,000 sq. ft. of living $175
Circuit charge                           $4
# of service/meters (each)               $50
Temp pole (camper/well)                  $50
Out of town inspection                   $150 paid directly to BCIS
Re-inspection                            $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection                 $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection                      $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections                      $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee                      Double fee
Total permit fee                         $                       
Residential A/C Permit Fee Schedule
Residential A/C Permit Fee Schedule
New/renovation/addition/townhouse
Per grill outlet                  $3
Per component                     $30
Existing/townhouse
Per component                     $100
Complete change out               $200
Out of town inspection            $150 paid directly to BCIS
Re-inspection                     $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection          $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection               $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections               $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee               Double fee
Residential Plumbing Permit Fees
(this column per item) General
Residential Plumbing Permit Fees
(this column per item)                             General
Water closets         $5                           Water service            $50
Tubs                  $5                           Sewer service            $50
Lavatories            $5                           Gas service              $50
Sinks                 $5                           Rough-in                 $50
Clothes washer        $5                           Water heater replacement $50
Dish washer           $5                           Smoke test               $50
Showers               $5                           Smoke test repair        $50
Floor drains          $5                           Storm drain per rough-in $50
Water heater          $5                           Storm drain              $50
Electric water cooler $5                           Backflow preventer       $50
Urinals               $5
Misc. fixtures        $5
Storm/roof drain      $5
Re-inspection            $50 paid directly to BCIS
Extra/partial inspection $50 paid directly to BCIS
Overtime inspection      $50 paid directly to BCIS
General inspections      $50 paid directly to BCIS
“No permit” fee      Double fee
 
(Ord. 10-2015, passed - -)
§ 150.05 DRAINAGE CULVERTS.
   (A)   Any person wishing to install or have installed a drainage culvert
within the corporate limits of the village shall purchase a culvert
installation permit from the village prior to any work beginning on the
installation of the drainage culvert.
   (B)   Said culvert installation permit shall cost $400 and be paid prior to
the issuance of the culvert installation permit. This payment shall cover and
include all surveying and inspections required by the village. This payment
will not cover any costs of installation. Said installation costs shall be
borne by the applicant for the culvert installation permit.
   (C)   Any person who installs or has installed a drainage culvert within the
corporate limits of the village without first obtaining the culvert
installation permit shall be required to remove said culvert, at his, her or
their costs, and then apply for said culvert installation permit.
(Ord. 4 of 2018, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever undertakes construction of a building or moving of a building
onto a site in the village without first obtaining the permit provided for in §
150.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $500, or imprisoned not less than 30 days, or both, at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 1992.-#3, passed 12-8-1993)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Enforcement authorization
   
151.002   Proper identification and location of mobile home and manufactured
home units within parks or subdivisions
   
151.003   Responsibilities of park or subdivision management
   
151.004   Responsibilities of park or subdivision occupants
   
151.005   Conflicts
Permit and Inspections
   
151.020   Permit required
   
151.021   Permit application and endorsement
   
151.022   Existing park permit
   
151.023   Inspections
Park and/or Subdivision Planning Requirements
   
151.035   General provisions
   
151.036   Nonresidential uses forbidden
Development and Improvement Standards
   
151.050   Minimum standards
   
151.051   Minimum park or subdivision areas
   
151.052   Density
   
151.053   Recreation area
   
151.054   Streets
   
151.055   Walks
   
151.056   Mobile home lot and/or manufactured home lot
   
151.057   Setback and open areas
   
151.058   Foundation and tiedown required
   
151.059   Foundation and tiedown requirements
   
151.060   Controlling provision in event of conflict
   
151.061   Skirting required
   
151.062   Fence required
Water, Sewerage and Gas Utilities
   
151.075   Required utilities
   
151.076   Prohibited systems
   
151.077   Public system
Electrical Systems
   
151.090   Generally
   
151.091   Power distribution lines
   
151.092   Installation requirements
Fire Protection
   
151.105   Flammable materials prohibited
   
151.106   Portable fire extinguishers required
   
151.107   Open burning prohibited
   
151.108   Fire hydrants
   
151.109   Barbeque pits, fireplaces and stoves
Sanitation Requirements
   
151.120   Refuse handling
   
151.121   Insect and rodent control
 
   
151.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Building Official is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Upon presentation of proper
credentials, he or she or the authorized members of his or her staff may enter
upon the premises of any mobile home or manufactured home park and/or
subdivision, or any building or structure thereon, located within the village,
during reasonable hours, to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this
chapter.
   (B)   The village, through the appropriate Building Official and the Village
Attorney, are empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter; and may
institute any necessary legal actions or proceedings to enforce the provisions
thereof, or to prevent any violation of any of its provisions, including any
injunctive process to compel compliance and prevent continued violation; and
may obtain an order for the removal of any units, or structures, fixtures or
appurtenances which may have been unlawfully placed or constructed in violation
of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.002 PROPER IDENTIFICATION AND LOCATION OF MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED
HOME UNITS WITHIN PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Pads and/or subdivisions shall contain at their main entrance and other
means of egress the proper identification and location of all mobile homes and
manufactured homes, as to the location of each within the parks and/or
subdivisions. The layout of the identification system shall meet with the
approval of the Building Official. Each mobile home or manufactured home shall
display the lot number in such a manner that the number is visible from the
street nearest the lot.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.003 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK OR SUBDIVISION MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The person to whom a permit for a park and/or subdivision is issued
shall operate the park and/or subdivision in compliance with this chapter and
shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park and/or subdivision, its
facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The park and/or subdivision management shall notify occupants of all
applicable provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and
responsibilities under this chapter.
   (C)   The park and/or subdivision management shall supervise the placement
of each unit, which includes securing its stability and installing all utility
connections.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.004 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK OR SUBDIVISION OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The park and/or subdivision occupant shall comply with all applicable
requirements of this chapter and shall maintain his or her space, its unit
facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The park and/or subdivision occupant shall be responsible for proper
placement of his or her unit on its mobile home stand or manufactured home
stand and proper installation of all utility connections in accordance with the
instructions of the park and/or subdivision management.
   (C)   Pets, if permitted in park and/or subdivision, shall be prohibited to
run at large or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any space.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.005 CONFLICTS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the village existing on the
effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, the
provision which, in the judgment of the Building Official, establishes the
higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the
village existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter
is derived which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection
of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
**** PERMIT AND INSPECTIONS ****
§ 151.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and maintain a park and/or
subdivision in the village without first securing a permit from the Building
Official and renewing such permit annually. Said permit shall be displayed at
all times in the office of the pertinent park and/or subdivision.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021 PERMIT APPLICATION AND ENDORSEMENT.
   An application for such permit shall be filed with the Building Official.
Such application shall be on a form furnished by the village and shall be
signed by the owner. Before issuing any such permit, the Building Official
shall approve the application indicating compliance with the applicable
requirements of this chapter or the indication in writing of conditions under
which such permit may be approved. The Building Official shall provide a check
list guide to the applicant.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.022 EXISTING PARK PERMIT.
   Applications for initial permitting of all parks and/or subdivisions in
existence at the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing property boundaries,
entrances and exits to the park and/or subdivision, interior drives, individual
mobile home lots and/or manufactured home lots or spaces and any other
structures or improvements located thereon.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.023 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Application for the initial permit of existing parks and/or
subdivisions and thereafter the annual renewal of said permit for all parks
and/or subdivisions shall be conditioned on an inspection of the premises by
the Building Official or his or her designated representative, to permit
endorsement of such application as required in §
151.023.
   (B)   All complications for initial permits and all renewals thereof shall
be accompanied by an inspection fee of $50.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
**** PARK AND/OR SUBDIVISION PLANNING REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 151.035 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All parks and/or subdivisions as they exist on the effective date of
the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall not be affected by any
of the requirements contained herein; except those requirements affecting
sanitation, tiedowns, foundation, inspections and permit requirements, and
responsibilities of management, and the skirting requirement contained in §
151.061; however, any additions or expansions of existing parks and/or
subdivisions and any new parks and or subdivisions shall be subject to the full
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all parks and/or
subdivisions situated within the corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   All mobile homes moved into the mobile home park or moved more than
ten feet, as provided in
Chapter 152 and all amendments thereto, must meet the National Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards and must display a seal certifying that
it was built in accordance with the standards and was built within the last 15
years. The owner of said mobile home to be moved into the park must provide
proof of age of the mobile home before the mobile home can be moved into the
mobile home park located within the corporate limits of the village. All mobile
homes must be found, upon inspection, to be safe and fit for occupancy.
(Ord. 03-2016, passed - -; Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.036 NONRESIDENTIAL USES FORBIDDEN.
   (A)   No part of any park and/or subdivision shall be used primarily for
nonresidential purposes.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting the
sale of a mobile home or manufactured home located on a mobile home stand or
manufactured home stand and connected to pertinent utilities.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
**** DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS ****
§ 151.050 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   Site plans for new parks and/or subdivisions or the expansion of or
additions to existing parks and or subdivisions shall be reviewed by the
Department of Planning, Zoning and Codes (PZ&C) of Lafayette Consolidated
Government, who shall consider the following minimum standards for improvement
and development. A flood and drainage analysis must be submitted with the park
and/or subdivision plat for approval by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.051 MINIMUM PARK OR SUBDIVISION AREAS.
   Any proposed new park and/or subdivision shall not be less than ten acres in
size or area.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.052 DENSITY.
   (A)   Each individual mobile home lot or manufactured home lot area shall
measure at least 35,000 square feet.
   (B)   No mobile home or manufactured home shall be located closer than 30
feet from any other mobile home or manufactured home or permanent building
within the park and/or subdivision.
   (C)   Mobile home stands or manufactured home stands shall not occupy an
area in excess of one-third of the respective lot area. The accumulated
occupied area of the mobile home or manufactured home and its accessory
structures on a lot shall not exceed 75% of the respective lot area.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.053 RECREATION AREA.
   Not less than 8% of the gross site area shall be devoted to recreational
facilities generally provided in a central location. Recreation areas may
include space for community building and community use facilities such as
indoor recreation areas, swimming pools, parks and/or subdivisions office and
service buildings.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.054 STREETS.
   (A)   Generally. All parks shall be provided with safe and convenient
vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to each lot. Such access
shall be provided by asphalt or concrete streets or driveways, or by streets or
driveways constructed of limestone of a depth not less than four inches. All
streets or driveways shall be maintained in good condition at all times.
   (B)   Entrance streets. Entrances to parks shall have direct connections to
a public street and shall be designed to allow free movement of traffic on such
adjacent public streets. Such entrances from the property line to the public
street shall be approved by the Village Engineer. The first 100 linear feet of
the entrance streets shall be constructed of asphalt or concrete.
   (C)   Circulation. The park’s and/or subdivision’s street system shall
provide convenient circulation by means of minor streets and properly located
collector streets. Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 1,500 feet,
and their closed end shall be provided with an adequate vehicular turnaround
(minimum 77-foot diameter cul-de-sac). Accessibility to the spaces for fire
protection shall be approved by the Fire Department.
   (D)   Pavement widths. Pavement should be of adequate widths to accommodate
the contemplated parking and traffic load. No street shall be less than 24 feet
in width plus eight feet minimum lane for parallel parking 32 feet.
   (E)   Street grades. Grades and draining of all streets shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the Village Engineer.
   (F)   Intersections. Street intersections should generally be at right
angles. Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
prohibited. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 shall be
prohibited.
   (G)   Streetlights. Major street intersections and steps or stepped ramps
shall be individually illuminated with a minimum of 0.6 foot-candles.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.055 WALKS.
   (A)   General requirements. All parks and/or subdivisions shall be provided
with safe, convenient concrete or asphalt pedestrian access walks for intended
use between individual spaces, the streets and all community facilitates
provided for residents of the parks and/or subdivisions.
   (B)   Common walk system. A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such
common walks shall have a minimum width of four feet and shall be separated
from paving surface of streets by a four-foot green area.
   (C)   Individual walks. All mobile home stands and manufactured home stands
shall be connected to common walks or to streets or to driveways or to parking
spaces by individual walks. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width of
three feet.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.056 MOBILE HOME LOT AND/OR MANUFACTURED HOME LOT.
   The limits of each mobile home lot or manufactured home lot shall be
permanently marked on the ground by suitable means. Location of space limits on
the ground should be the same as shown on approved plans.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.057 SETBACK AND OPEN AREAS.
   (A)   Distance between buildings. There shall be a minimum of 30 feet of
distance in all directions between a mobile home or manufactured home and any
permanent building. For the purpose of this section, covered patios, carports
or individual storage buildings shall not be considered as permanent buildings;
provided, that no such patio roof, carport or storage building shall be located
closer than three feet to any lot line.
   (B)   Distance from boundary lines. Units shall be located at least 20 feet
from any park and/or subdivision boundary line; provided, however, that at any
intersection of public streets bounding a park and/or subdivision, no mobile
home or manufactured home or structure of any kind shall be located within a
triangle formed by a diagonal line connecting points on the two street property
lines measured 30 feet along the property lines of each of the street corner
intersection.
   (C)   Spacing. Spaces may have open, unenclosed or roofed patios or carports
of metal, fiberglass or other incombustible material, provided such structures
follow the setback and spacing requirements established herein.
   (D)   Percentage of allowable coverage. Units together with accessory
structures, such as storage buildings and roofed-over patios or carports, shall
not cover more than 75% of a space.
   (E)   Driveways. Paved driveways shall be provided on spaces for convenient
access to living units. The minimum width shall be ten feet. Driveways shall be
solid or strips not less than two feet six inches in width each.
   (F)   Parking areas. The design criteria for automobile parking shall be
based upon two parking slots for each space. Parking may be in tandem.
   (G)   Outdoor living area. Each space shall be provided with an outdoor
living and service area. Such area shall be improved as necessary to ensure
reasonable privacy and comfort. The minimum area should be not less than 300
square feet with at least dimension of 15 feet.
   (H)   Buffer zone. The boundary line of any park and/or subdivision shall be
no less than 300 feet from any property which has been subdivided pursuant to
an act of dedication.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.058 FOUNDATION AND TIEDOWN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every unit located within a park and/or subdivision shall be equipped
with adequate foundations and tiedown intended to secure such units against
movement, settling and overturning for the protection of life and property.
   (B)   All units in existing parks and/or subdivisions shall comply with the
requirements of this section within 12 months from the effective date of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
   (C)   All units moving into a park and/or subdivision after the effective
date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall comply with the
requirements of this section within days after arrival.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the park and/or subdivision owner or
operator to notify the occupant of the foundation and tiedown requirements of
this chapter. Where the occupant refuses to comply with said requirements, it
shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of the park and/or
subdivision to notify the Building Official. The Building Official shall take
whatever enforcement procedures that he or she deems necessary to enforce
compliance by the occupant.
   (E)   No owner or operator of a new park shall permit the occupancy of any
space before complying with this section and §
151.059.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.059 FOUNDATION AND TIEDOWN REQUIREMENTS.
   Every space shall be improved to provide adequate supports for the placement
and tiedown of all units. The minimum requirements for foundation footings,
supports, piers or blocking and tiedowns shall be as follows.
   (A)   Footing or foundations.
      (1)   When concrete slabs, runners or strips are provided as required by
this section, piers or blocking may be placed thereon, provided:
         (a)   Such strips or runners are a minimum of four inches in thickness
and reinforced with not less than 20-gauge wire mesh; and
         (b)   Such slabs, runners or strips may be a minimum of six-inch
compacted gravel with a one-inch minimum asphalt surface. In such event,
foundation footings and tiedown anchorage requirements shall apply as in this
division (A).
      (2)   Strips or runners shall be not less than 30 inches wide.
      (3)   Slabs, strips or runners shall be not less than the length of the
unit to be placed thereon.
      (4)   Eyebolts for tiedown equipment may be set in the concrete slab,
strips or runners as required in this section.
      (5)   When individual or spot footings are used for piers or blocking,
such footings shall be a minimum 18 inches by 18 inches by four inches concrete
spaced as required in this section.
         (a)   All piers or blocking shall provide a minimum spacing of ten
feet, center-to-center, measured along the frame rail of the unit installed
thereon.
         (b)   All such piers or blocking shall be not less than eight inches
by eight inches by 16 inches solid or hollow load bearing concrete or haydite
units. Where hollow units are used, all voids shall be placed in a vertical
position.
         (c)   Shims, if required, shall be placed between the beam frame and
the pier to provide a level and rigid unit installation.
   (B)   Storage. No space beneath any unit shall be used for any storage
unless the storage area of such unit is surfaced with concrete or asphalt. In
such event, noncombustible skirting shall be installed around the entire
perimeter of such unit with adequate access provided for inspections.
   (C)   Minimum tiedowns.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Since the village is located within the inland area of the
established storm of wind load region, only frame tiedown anchorage shall be a
mandatory requirement herein.
         (b)   However, since the ground anchorage required for frame tiedown
is adequately designed for both, over-the-roof tiedown straps should be added
for additional safety.
      (2)   Number of tiedowns required.
         (a)   All spaces shall be provided with frame-to-ground tiedowns as
follows.
 
Length of Frame    Number of Ties
Up to 30 feet      Two per side
30 feet to 50 feet Three per side
50 feet to 70 feet Four per side
Over 70 feet       Five per side
 
         (b)   Except as provided in division (C)(2)(b)4. below, all ground
anchors shall be as follows.
            1.   Types: Anchors shall be bolted in concrete, screw auger or
anchor driven or any other type manufactured and approved for such use.
            2.   Size: All anchors shall be galvanized, high tensile steel, not
less than five-eighths-inch diameter, with a drop forged closed eye. All
anchors, except as required in division (C)(2)(b)4. below, shall be not less
than four feet in length, installed to full depth, according to manufacturer’s
recommendation with only the eye protruding above grade for connecting the tie
system.
            3.   Connections to the unit I-beam frame shall be a five-eighths-
inch or larger drop forged closed eye bolted through a hole drilled through the
frame or by any other approved and adequate wrap-around or clamp method.
            4.   Not less than five-eighths-inch drop forged turnbuckles with
closed eyes and screw pins shall be attached to the frame above and ground
anchor below and securely tightened in place. Steel straps or cables may be
used in lieu of turnbuckles if they are of equal or greater strength and are
securely tightened in place with a tensioning tool and clamped.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.060 CONTROLLING PROVISION IN EVENT OF CONFLICT.
   Should it be determined that any provisions of this chapter conflict with
state law or manufacturer’s setup/installation requirements, such state law/
manufacturer’s setup/installation requirements shall be controlling over said
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.061 SKIRTING REQUIRED.
   Skirting shall be installed around the entire perimeter of each unit with
adequate access provided for inspections.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.062 FENCE REQUIRED.
   Each park and/or subdivision shall be enclosed on all boundary lines with a
substantial fence not less than six feet high and completely screening said
park and/or subdivision from public view. Said fence shall be solid and non-
transparent, excepting for entrances and exits.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
**** WATER, SEWERAGE AND GAS UTILITIES ****
§ 151.075 REQUIRED UTILITIES.
   Every park and/or subdivision shall contain a water, sewerage and gas piping
(if gas is available to the park site) system consisting of piping, equipment
and appurtenances which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
the requirements of the regulatory codes and permits office.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.076 PROHIBITED SYSTEMS.
   Any unit equipped for the use of LPG gas may continue the use of such
system. However, the filling of such fuel bottles, tanks or containers on site
or in the park and/or subdivision is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.077 PUBLIC SYSTEM.
   (A)   The park’s and/or subdivision’s sewerage system will be tied into the
village municipal sewerage system, if the village municipal sewerage system
services the site of the park.
   (B)   Upon the removal of a unit from a park and/or subdivision, the
occupant shall seal off and/or cap the sewer riser pipe.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
**** ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS ****
§ 151.090 GENERALLY.
   Every park and/or subdivision shall contain an electrical wiring system
consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the National
Electrical Code.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.091 POWER DISTRIBUTION LINES.
   Main power lines and all service shall be located underground.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.092 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All electrical systems installed in every park and/or subdivision shall be
in accordance with the most current edition of the National Electrical Code
which is adopted and used as the electrical code of the village.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
**** FIRE PROTECTION ****
§ 151.105 FLAMMABLE MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   Parks and/or subdivision shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.106 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED.
   Portable fire extinguishers rated for Classes A, B and C fires shall be kept
in service buildings and at other locations conveniently and readily accessible
for use by all occupants and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
Extinguishers shall have not less than a Z-A rating.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.107 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No open fires or burning shall be permitted in, on and/or around a park and/
or subdivision.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.108 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Generally. Fire hydrants, where required by the Building Official or
the Fire Chief, shall be installed in accordance with the following
requirements.
      (1)   The water supply system shall permit the operation of a minimum of
two and one-half-inch hose streams.
      (2)   Each of two nozzles, held four feet above the ground, shall deliver
at least 75 gallons of water per minute at a flowing pressure of at least 40
pounds per square inch at the highest elevation point of the park and/or
subdivision.
   (B)   Location. Fire hydrants, where required, shall be located within 500
feet of any unit, service building or other structure in the park and fire
apparatus shall be able to approach within 100 feet of any unit or structure.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.109 BARBEQUE PITS, FIREPLACES AND STOVES.
   Barbecue pits, fireplaces and wood burning stoves shall be so located,
constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance
both on the space on which used and on neighboring spaces.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
**** SANITATION REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 151.120 REFUSE HANDLING.
   (A)   Responsible disposal of refuse. The storage, collection and disposal
of refuse in parks and/or subdivisions shall be conducted in a manner to create
no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, fire hazard or
water or air pollution.
   (B)   Responsibility of occupants and management. It shall be the joint
responsibility of each occupant and the management of a park and/or subdivision
to ensure that all refuse containing garbage is stored in flytight, watertight,
rodent-proof containers in sufficient number and capacity to care for such
storage and shall conform to the village sanitary code and/or the laws of the
state and/or the Lafayette City Parish Consolidated Government.
   (C)   Sanitary and safe maintenance of collection facilities. Where central
collection facilities are established for the collection of refuse, garbage or
trash, pending removal by the hauler, said facilities shall be provided with
closures or lids which fit tightly to exclude flies and rainwater. The facility
and adjacent areas shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.
   (D)   Disposal service required. Every park and/or subdivision shall provide
its own garbage and trash disposal service.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.121 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Property maintenance requirements. Grounds, building and structures
shall be maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation.
Extermination methods and other measure to control insects and rodents shall
conform with the requirements of the health authority.
   (B)   Prohibited accumulations. Parks and/or subdivisions shall be
maintained free of accumulation of debris and stagnant water which may provide
rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests.
   (C)   Maintenance of storage areas. Storage areas shall be so maintained as
to prevent rodent harborage; lumber, pipe and other building material shall be
stored at least one foot above the ground.
   (D)   Screening required for exterior openings. Where the potential for
insect and rodent infestations exists, all exterior openings in or beneath any
structure shall be appropriately screened with wire mesh or other suitable
materials.
   (E)   Control of vegetation. The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be
controlled to prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects.
Parks and/or subdivisions shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of
ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and other noxious weeds
considered detrimental to health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy
undergrowth of any description.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   The owner or general agent of a park and/or subdivision. where a violation
of any provisions of this chapter is being, or has been committed, or the
general agent, architect, builder, contractor or any other person who commits,
takes part in, assists on any such violation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $200; and each day’s failure of compliance with any such provisions
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 02-2014, passed 7-14-2014)
CHAPTER 152: MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES NOT LOCATED WITHIN AN EXISTING
MOBILE HOME PARK
Section
   
152.01   Generally
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Village enforcement
   
152.04   Mayor’s authority
   
152.05   Conflicting regulations
   
152.06   Permit and inspection; requirements, application, fee
   
152.07   Mobile home standards outside mobile parks
   
152.08   Restrictions generally
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 GENERALLY.
   A mobile home can be placed on property provided that the mobile home is
located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing structure, building, other
mobile home or property line.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building or structure located on
the same site as the mobile home, house trailer or manufactured home which it
serves, including, without limitations, awnings, cabanas, porches, storage
cabinets or similar appurtenant structures.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Use for business or other governmental entity purposes, such
as, without limitation, first responders or for uses other than permanent or
temporary residential purposes.
   DOUBLE-WIDE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home with two or more units separately
towable, but designed to be joined onto an integral unit at the site.
   EXPANDABLE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home with two or more room sections that
fold, collapse or telescope into the principle unit when being transported and
which can be expanded at the site to provide additional living area.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME. A moveable detached single family dwelling unit
with all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed and constructed on a chassis that is capable of being
transported after fabrication on its own wheels or detachable wheels bearing a
label certifying it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. § 501) which became
effective June 15, 1976;
      (3)   Arrive at a site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete
and ready for occupancy except for minor incidental unpacking and assembly
operations, installed by a licensed installer, connections to utilities; and
      (4)   Not required to be placed on a foundation. (Does not refer to
travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers or similar units designed for
recreation or other short term use.)
   MOBILE HOME. A mobile home is a factory-built home that is built before June
15, 1976, and not built to a uniform construction code.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. The portion of a mobile home park that is reserved for
occupancy by the single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership, which has been
planned, developed, designed and constructed to accommodate mobile homes for
non-transient residential use.
   MODULAR HOME. Any home factory-built to a local state code. In some cases, a
state may have adopted one of the uniform construction codes (i.e., UBC, IRC
and the like). MODULAR HOMES will not have the red certification label, but
will have a label attached to the home identifying the code with which it
complies. The appropriate state modular code agency will be able to provide
assistance in locating the modular label. A MODULAR HOME can be as an “on-
frame” or “off-frame” modular. On-frame will be built on a permanent chassis,
whereas, the off-frame modular will be built with removal of the chassis frames
in mind. An off-frame modular will usually require additional cranes to assist
with home placement. MODULAR HOMES are, more often than not, attached to
private land.
   PARK TRAILER. Recreation vehicles primarily designed as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping or seasonal use. They are built on a single
chassis, mounted on wheels and have a gross trailer area not exceeding 400
square feet in the set-up mode. Each PARK TRAILER is certified by the RPTIA
member manufacturer as complying with ANSI A119.5. Two different types of park
trailers are offered. One type is less than eight feet, six inches in width and
is designed for frequent travel on the highways while the other and more
popular type is wider than eight feet, six inches (usually 12 feet in width),
and must be transported with special movement permits from the State Highway
Department. The eight-feet, six-inch unit typically is expandable when it
reaches its destination, utilizing slide-outs or tip-outs. The wider units,
being less mobile, are usually sited in a resort or RV park location for an
extended term, typically several years.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the village permitting the placement of a
mobile home or other structure regulated by this chapter and with the operation
of same pursuant to applicable law.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Without limitations, a camping trailer, motor home,
travel trailer or truck camper.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, travel or camping use, consisting of a roof, floor
and sides designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a truck.
   VILLAGE. The political subdivision of the village and, without limitations,
the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
§ 152.03 VILLAGE ENFORCEMENT.
   The village, through the appropriate Building Official and/or the Village
Attorney, is empowered to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and to
institute any necessary legal actions or proceedings to enforce the provisions
thereof, or to prevent any violation of any of its provisions, including
injunctive process to compel compliance and prevent continued violation, and
may obtain an order for the removal of any units or structures, fixtures or
appurtenances which may have been unlawfully placed or constructed in violation
of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
§ 152.04 MAYOR’S AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Mayor and/or the
Mayor’s designee, the head of a department or other suitable designation
(Planning Department) shall be the permit issuance officer for all permits
required under this chapter. The Mayor shall prescribe forms therefor,
including all information reasonably and necessarily required for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee shall also be authorized to perform
all inspections or delegate another person to conduct such inspections
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
§ 152.05 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the village or state
existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived, the provisions which, in the judgment of the Building Official,
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this
chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or
code of the village existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which
this chapter is derived which establishes a lower standard for the promotion
and protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are
hereby declared to be repealed to the extent they may be found in conflict with
this chapter.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
§ 152.06 PERMIT AND INSPECTION; REQUIREMENTS, APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to move a mobile
home, house trailer or manufactured home into the corporate limits of the
village without first securing a building permit from the village at the
current permit rate. It shall also be unlawful for any person to move a mobile
home, house trailer or manufactured home from within the corporate limits of
the village more than ten feet without first securing a building permit from
the village at the current permit rate. The mobile home, house trailer or
manufactured home is required to be moved by movers licensed with the state.
The permit shall be displayed in a front window of the home while in transit
and until such time that utilities are permanently connected in such a way that
said permit shall be visible from outside the home.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   All applications for approval and permit shall include a color
photo of all four sides of said mobile home; said photograph is to be a minimum
size of three inches by five inches. No approval and resulting permit shall be
granted unless said photograph is supplied to the village. The application fee
shall be charged for the approval process, and the resulting permit shall be
charged at the then current permit rate, and shall be due regardless of whether
approval and the resulting permit is issued.
      (2)   Application for permit under this chapter shall be filed with the
village. Such application shall be by written letter of request or on a form
furnished by the village and shall be signed by the owner. Before issuing any
such permit, the Mayor or his or her designee shall approve the application
indicating compliance with the applicable requirements of this chapter or shall
indicate in writing the conditions under which such permit may be approved, the
village official shall provide a checklist to the applicant.
      (3)   All mobile homes proposed to be located within the corporate limits
of the village shall be approved by the Mayor of the village and/or his or her
designee. Should the Mayor or his or her designee withhold approval, the owner
of said mobile home shall be allowed to appeal to the Village Council at a
regular meeting by being place on the agenda of same.
      (4)   The Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to remove or abate illegal or unsafe conditions and to ensure
compliance with all the requirements of this chapter for the safety, health and
general welfare of the public.
      (5)   The application fee for inspection of the mobile home before being
moved into village limits will be as follows and must be paid for in advance
before inspection will take place:
         (a)   Located within the parish: $50; and
         (b)   Located outside of the parish: $150.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -; Ord. 02-2016, passed 3-14-2016) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 MOBILE HOME STANDARDS OUTSIDE MOBILE PARKS.
   (A)   Each mobile home must meet the National Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards and must display a seal certifying that it was built in
accordance with the standards and built within the last 15 years. The mobile
home owner must provide proof of age of the mobile home before the permit may
be issued or the home moved into the village. All mobile homes must be found,
upon village inspection, to be safe and fit for occupancy.
   (B)   From one to four mobile homes can be placed on property without
meeting mobile home park development standards, provided that each mobile home
is located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing structure, building,
other mobile home or property line.
      (1)   Certain emergency conditions exist where illness or physical
incapacity of an individual necessitates the close proximity of a relative or
other person to care for said individual, and the person providing such care
shall be designated as the caretaker. A statement signed by a physician,
stating the nature of the existing emergency conditions and the reasons which
necessitate such use of a mobile home or single-family dwelling as prescribed
herein must be presented to the village at least 14 days prior to the
submission of a request for a variance from the requirements of this chapter
relative to location of mobile homes. The statement from a physician must be
renewed annually with the Planning Administrator.
      (2)   Upon the death or relocation away from the mobile home or single-
family dwelling of the person with the illness or physical incapacity, such
that said person is no longer residing on the property at issue, the caretaker
shall secure removal of the mobile home from the property at issue within six
months from the date the person with the illness or physical incapacity vacates
the mobile home.
   (C)   All mobile homes must be provided with manufacturer approved, vented
skirting from the bottom of the mobile home floor to ground. Skirting must be
suitable for outdoor exposure and contact to the ground. The area enclosed by
skirting may not be used for storage and must be kept free of debris at all
times. The skirting must be installed within 30 days following approval of the
inspection of said unit by the village or its designated representative.
Failure to so install said skirting will result in village utilities to the
home being disconnected. Village utilities will remain disconnected until such
time as the village is notified that the home has been brought into compliance
by installation of the skirting as required, and same has been verified by a
representative of the village.
   (D)   All entrances to a mobile home shall be provided with permanent steps
of precast concrete; properly laid and/or cemented bricks or treated lumber.
The entrance to an attached deck or similar extension shall be considered as an
entrance to a mobile home.
   (E)   All mobile homes must be provided with anchors and tie downs to meet
the requirements of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (F)   Additions to a mobile home may not use the mobile home for structural
support. Additions must meet the current provisions of the local building code.
   (G)   Said lot should have a parking area for at least two vehicles.
   (H)   All mobile homes located in a special flood hazard area must comply
with all federal, state and local requirements pertaining to the National Flood
Insurance Program, even if flood insurance is not purchased.
   (I)   Base flood elevation: Lowest floor. The lowest floor shall mean the
bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam in “A” and “AE” zones. The lowest
level shall be 12 inches or more above the base flood elevation height.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
§ 152.08 RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No tents, travel trailers, camper trailers, park trailers, nor motor
homes shall be used for permanent dwelling within the corporate limits of the
village. This also includes the large amount of park trailers formerly owned by
FEMA that are being sold and purchased with the intent of being used as
permanent housing.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles, truck campers, camping trailers, travel
trailers or other types of vehicles used for recreational purposes may not be
used for residential purposes, regardless of whether permanent or temporary.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than $100 per day nor more than $500 per day of
violation, where each and every day that the violation persists.
(Ord. 07-2015, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Compliance
   
153.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.10   Interpretation
   
153.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.27   Establishment of development permit
   
153.28   Permit procedures
   
153.29   Variances
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
 
   
153.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in La. R.S. § 38:84 delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen ordain as
follows.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of   the village are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO Zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
offloading to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation shown on the flood insurance rare map
(FIRM) and found in the accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30 or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year; also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M
and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVO) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348), 16
U.S.C. §§ 3501 through 3510, includes substantial improvement and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(6)(5),
(c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the village.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled
“The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for St. Landry Parish, Louisiana and
incorporated areas” with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) dated
August 5, 2010, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010; Ord. 05-10, passed 1-10-2010)
§ 153.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Municipal Clerk is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance - National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is the Department of Transportation and Development,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.42.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.27 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.28 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
153.41(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
153.26(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.29 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
153.28(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances are as follows.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost offload
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
**** PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
153.07 ,
153.26(H) or
153.42(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as proposed in
§
153.28 (A)(2) is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated to or above the base flood level or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/
or review structural design, specifications and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this division (B). A record
of such certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained
by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   It is required that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone
A on a community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   It is required that manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on
sites: outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom
of the longitudinal structural I-beam of the manufactured home is elevated to
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   It is required that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of this division (D) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The bottom of the longitudinal structural I-beam of the
manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with §§
153.02 through
153.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
153.27 and
153.28; and the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.42.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.07 or
153.28(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $25 or imprisoned for not more than five days, or both, for each
violation. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a new violation. In
addition, the violator shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-9-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   DECLARATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
03-2015  - -         Annexing to the village the following described property:
                     a property block beginning at 820 Hwy 93.
                     Annexing to the village the following described property:
04-2015  - -         Tracts 1 and 2 commencing at the existing corporate city
                     limits.
                     Annexing to the village the following described property:
01-2016  2-8-2016    the Mary Woods property located in Section 23, T 8 S - R 3
                     E.
                    
 
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4-89     -           8-8-1989Granting a cable television franchise to Gulf
                     American Cable Group V.
                    
 
 
TABLE III: DECLARATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
5-89     - -         Declaring a drug free zone near school property.
                     Declaring that as soon as two contiguous parishes included
2 1975   7-8-1975    in the Acadiana Regional Planning Area have adopted a
                     relevant ordinance, said area shall be created.
2-89     6-13-1989   Declaring that the village will decline membership in the
                     DOTTIE system.
4-99     11-8-1999   Declaring approval for a proposed plan to extend a water
                     line to serve new subdivision agreement.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Louisiana Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO LOUISIANA REVISED STATUTES
La. R.S. Cites Code Section
La. R.S. Cites          Code Section
3:3603 through 3:3612   93.01
14:23 through 14:25     130.01
14:27                   130.01
14:33                   130.01
14:59                   130.01
14:94                   130.01
14:95                   130.01
14:98                   130.01
14:103                  130.01
14:105                  130.01
14:107                  130.01
14:108                  130.01
14:110                  130.01
14:111                  130.01
14:283                  130.02
14:284                  130.01
17:405(A)(4)            111.05
18:402(B)               30.04
22                      110.16
22:1076                 110.16
23:1601(10)             33.20;
                        33.34
26:241                  111.01
26:493                  111.01
Title 32, Chapter 1     70.03
32:1301 through 32:1310 90.60
33:301(32)              130.03
33:401(7)               130.01
33:401(32)              130.99
33:401.1                30.02
33:404(A)(3)            33.01
33:4761 et seq.         91.01
33:4854                 130.02
33:4874                 130.01
36:361                  70.02
38:84                   153.01
40:1730.21 et seq.      150.02
40:1730.26              150.03
40:1730.28              150.03
45:1361 et seq.         112.01;
                        112.02
45:1361 through 45:1378 34.15
45:1366                 112.01
45:1374                 34.15
Title 47, Chapter 3     110.02
47:359(C)               110.03
47:1601                 110.16
47:1602                 110.16
49:950 et seq.          150.03
49:953(B)               150.03
                        93.15;
                        93.16;
51:651                  93.19;
                        93.20;
                        93.23
51:655                  93.21;
                        93.23
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
2 of 1960  - -         70.01;
                       Ch. 72, Sched. I
3 of 1961  - -         110.15
5 of 1961  - -         30.01
1 of 1965  - -         30.01
1971-15    - -         70.05
1 of 1973  - -         Ch. 73, Sched. I
5-83       - -         70.05;
                       70.99
5-89       - -         TSO Table III
1-99       - -         92.01;
                       92.99
2-99       - -         33.02 
                       33.04
5-99       - -         30.01
3-00       - -         Ch. 72, Sched. I
04-03      - -         Ch. 72, Sched. I
                       34.15;
05-08      - -         34.16;
                       34.99
06-08      - -         112.01
07-08      - -         112.02
08-08      - -         91.01 
                       91.07
                       111.02 
03-2011    - -         111.04;
                       111.99
02-2015    - -         150.03
03-2015    - -         TSO Table I
04-2015    - -         TSO Table I
05-2015    - -         34.01
                       152.01 
07-2015    - -         152.08;
                       152.99
09-2015    - -         70.04;
                       70.99
10-2015    - -         150.04
                       93.15 
11 of 2015 - -         93.23;
                       93.99
03-2016    - -         151.035
04-2016    - -         90.15 
                       90.24
01-2017    - -         93.23;
                       93.99
1 of 2023  - -         50.02;
                       50.99
                       131.01-
2 of 2024  - -         131.03;
                       131.99
6 of 2025  - -         90.25
1 of 1960  11-21-1960  30.01
                       130.01 
3 of 1960  11-21-1960  130.03;
                       130.99
4          12-19-1960  30.01
8 of 1961  9-18-1961   111.01
I of 1968  1-16-1968   30.01
2 of 1969  11-11-1969  32.01
2 1975     7-8-1975    TSO Table III
                       71.01 
3 of 1975  12-9-1975   71.05;
                       71.99
1-80       1-8-1980    32.02
2-84       10-9-1984   30.04
1-86       3-11-1986   30.03
2-86       3-11-1986   33.01 
                       33.06
3, of 1987 6-9-1987    110.01 
                       110.03
4, 1987    6-9-1987    110.16
2-89       6-13-1989   TSO Table III
4-89-      8-8-1989    TSO Table II
2-90       3-13-1990   90.02;
                       90.99
1 of 1992  4-14-1992   33.20 
                       33.34
1992.-#3   12-8-1993   150.01;
                       150.99
1-94       7-12-1994   90.01;
                       90.99
4-99       11-8-1999   TSO Table III
2-01       5-9-2001    30.01
03-02      6-10-2002   110.01 
                       110.04
                       34.30 
01-05      6-13-2005   34.35;
                       34.99
04-06      12-11-2006  150.02
04-07      1-14-2008   Ch. 72, Sched. I
02-08      5-14-2008   70.02;
                       70.99
01-08      6-9-2008    31.01
05-10      1-10-2010   153.07
                       153.01 
                       153.11;
                       153.25 
02-10      8-9-2010    153.29;
                       153.40 
                       153.42;
                       153.99
01-2011    5-9-2011    Ch. 72, Sched. I
01-2013    6-10-2013   70.03
                       151.001 
                       151.005;
                       151.020 
                       151.023;
                       151.035;
                       151.036;
                       151.050 
                       151.062;
02-2014    7-14-2014   151.075 
                       151.077;
                       151.090 
                       151.092;
                       151.105 
                       151.109;
                       151.120;
                       151.121;
                       151.999
08-2015    6-15-2015   30.02
13-2015    1-11-2016   31.02
01-2016    2-8-2016    TSO Table I
02-2016    3-14-2016   152.06
2 of 2018  12-10-2018  50.01
3 of 2018  12-10-2018  50.01
4 of 2018  12-10-2018  150.05
6 of 2018  12-10-2018  33.04
7 of 2019  - -2019     30.02
5 of 2019  4-8-2019    Ch. 72, Sched. I
5 of 2021  - -2021     111.05
1 of 2021  2-8-2021    93.01
2 of 2021  2-8-2021    31.02
3 of 2021  3-8-2021    90.02
1 of 2024  4-8-2024    50.01
2 of 2024  4-8-2024    30.02
4 of 2025  10-13-2025  91.01 
                       91.07
                       90.60 
5 of 2025  10-13-2025  90.64;
                       90.99
1 of 2026  - -2026     113.01
2 of 2026  - -2026     50.01
                       90.40 
3 of 2026  - -2026     90.48;
                       90.99
                      
 
