CODE OF ORDINANCES
VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON, MICHIGAN
Published by Order of the Village Council
***** Chapter 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
Section
1-1.   How Code designated and cited.
Section
1-2.   Definitions and rules of construction
Section
1-3.   catchlines of sections; history notes references.
Section
1-4.   Effect of repeal of ordinances
Section 1-5.   Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinance, amendatory language
Section 1-6.   Supplementation of Code
Section
1-7.   General Penalty; continuing violations.
Section
1-8.   Aiding or abetting violations.
Section
1-9.   Severability
Section
1-10.   Provision deemed continuation of existing ordinances.
Section
1-11.   Codes does not affect prior offenses or rights.
Section
1-12.   Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited,
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and
be designated the "Code of Ordinances, Village of Lexington, Michigan," and may
be so cited. Such ordinances may also be cited as the "Lexington Village Code."
State law reference-Authority to codify ordinances, MCL 66.3a, MSA 5.1273(1).
Sec. 1-2. Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this Code
and to all ordinances and resolutions unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. When provisions conflict, the specific shal1prevail over the
general. All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the
council may be effectuated. Words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words, technical
phrases and words and phrases that have acquired peculiar and appropriate
meanings in law shall be construed according to such meanings.
Code. The term "Code" means the Lexington Village Code, as designated in
section
1-1.
Computation of time. In computing a period of days, the first day is excluded
and the last day is included. If the last day of any period or a fixed or final
day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the period or day is extended to
include the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions,
provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are
connected by the conjunction "and,'1 "or" or "either ... or," the conjunction
shall be interpreted as follows:
   (1)   "And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions
or events apply.
   (2)   "Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or
events apply singly or in any combination.
   (3)   "Either ... or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
Council, village council, board of trustees. The terms "council," "board of
trustees" and "village council" mean the council of the Village of Lexington,
Michigan.
County. The term "county" means Sanilac County, Michigan.
Delegation of authority. A provision that authorizes or requires a village
officer or village employee to perform an act or make a decision authorizes
such officer or employee to act or make a decision through subordinates.
Gender. Words of one gender include the other genders.
Include including. The terms "includes" and "including" are terms of
enlargement and not of limitation or exclusive enumeration, and the use of the
terms does not create a presumption that components not expressed are excluded
Joint authority. A grant of authority to three or more persons as a public body
confers the authority on a majority of the number of members as fixed by
statute or ordinance.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" states a prohibition.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Number. The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
Oath,, affirmation, sworn/ affirmed The term "oath" includes an affirmation in
all cases where an affirmation may be substituted for an oath. In similar
cases, the term "sworn" includes the term "affirmed."
Officer departments, etc. References to officers, departments, boards,
commissions or employees are to village officers, village departments, village
boards, village commissions and village employees.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or part of such property. With respect to special
assessments, however, the owner shall be considered to be the person appearing
on the assessment roll for the purpose of giving notice. and billing.
Person. The term "person" means any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, club, joint venture, estate, trust, governmental unit, and any
other group or combination acting as a unit, and the individuals constituting
such group or unit.
Persona/property. The term "personal property" means any property other than
real property.
Premises. The term "premises," as applied to real property, includes land and
structures.
Property. The term 11property11 means real and personal property.
Public acts. References to public acts are references to the Public Acts of
Michigan. (For example, a reference to Public Act No. 279 of 1909 is a
reference to Act No. 279 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1909,) Any reference
to a public act, whether by act number or by short title, is a reference to the
act as amended.
Real property, real estate, land, lands. The term "real property" includes
lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of the street between the curb,
or the lateral line of the roadway, and the adjacent property line, intended
for the use of pedestrians.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a
mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Michigan.
Street, highway, alley. The terms "street" and "highway" mean the entire width
subject to an easement for a public right-of-way or owned in fee by the
village, county or state, of every way or place, of whatever nature, whenever
any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of right for
purposes of public travel. The term "alley" means any such way or place
providing a secondary means of ingress and egress from property.
Swear. The term "swear" includes affirm.
Tenses. The present tense includes the past and future tenses. The future tense
includes the present tense.
Village. The term "village" means the Village of Lexington, Michigan.
Week. The term "week" means seven consecutive days.
Written. The term "written" includes any representation of words, letters,
symbols, or figures.
Year. The term "year" means 12 consecutive months.
State law reference-Definitions and rules of construction applicable to state
statutes, MCL 8.3 et seq., MSA 2.212 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. Catch lines of sections; history notes references.
   (a)   The catch lines of several sections of this Code printed in boldface
type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section
and are not titles of such sections, or of any part of the section, nor, unless
expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any such section, including
the catch line, is amended or reenacted.
   (b)   The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in
this Code have no legal effect and only indicate legislative history. Charter
references, cross references and state law references that appear in this Code
after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are
provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
   (c)   Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are
to chapters or sections of this Code,
State law reference-Catch lines in state statutes, MCL 8.4b, MSA 2.215.
Sec. 1-4. Effect of repeal of ordinances.
   (a)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, the repeal of a repealing
ordinance does not revive the ordinance originally repealed or impair the
effect of any saving provision in it.
   (b)   The repeal or amendment of an ordinance does not affect any punishment
or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor does such repeal or
amendment affect any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the
amendment or repeal.
State law reference Effect of repeal of state statutes, MCL 8.4 et seq., MSA
2.213 et seq.
   (5)   Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this chapter,"
"this article," "this division," "this subdivision," "this section" or
"sections to 11 (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code
that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the
Code).
   (6)   Make other non substantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meaning of the ordinances inserted in the Code.
THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON ORDAINS:
The penalty provisions of the General Code of Ordinances, Chapter I, Section
1 -7, is hereby amended to state as follows:
Sec. 1-7. General penalty; continuing violations.
   (a)   In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the
following:
      (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance.
      (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
      (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made
or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or
by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (b)   In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include
the failure of a village officer or village employee to perform an office duty
unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to
be punished as provided in this section.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a violation of this
Code is a misdemeanor, and a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00, by imprisonment for a period of
not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. A person
convicted of a violation of this Code shall be ordered to pay the costs of
prosecution. Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, with respect to
violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day that
the violation continues is a separate offense. As to other violations, each
violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (d)   Notwithstanding subsections (c) of this section, violation of Code
provisions listed in the municipal civil infraction ordinance or that are
otherwise specifically designated in the Code of Ordinances as a municipal
civil infraction, is a municipal infraction. Except as otherwise provided by
law or ordinance, with respect to municipal infractions that are continuous
with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate
offense. As to other violations, each violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (e)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation
of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
   (f)   Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief or civil or quasi-
judicial enforcement.
Sec. 1-8. Aiding or abetting violations.
No person: shall cause, secure, aide or abet a violation of this Code. In this
section, the term "violation of this Code" has the meaning assigned to it in
section
1-7 of this Code. A person violating this section shall be subject to
punishment as if the person had directly committed a violation of the Code, and
such a violation shall be a municipal infraction or a misdemeanor as
appropriate.
Sec. 1-9. Severability.
If any provision of this Code or its application to any person or circumstances
is held invalid or unconstitutional, the invalidity or unconstitutionality does
not affect other provisions or application of this Code that can be given
effect without the invalid or unconstitutional provision or application; and to
this end the provisions of this Code are severable.
State law reference-Severability of state statutes, MCL 8.5 et seq., MSA 2.216
et seq.
Sec. 1-10. Provisions deemed continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
legislation previously adopted by the village relating to the same subject
matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations of such
legislation and not as new enactments.
State law reference-Similar provisions as to state statutes, MCL 8.3u, MSA
2.212(21).
Sec. 1-11. Code does not affect prior offenses or rights.
   (a)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any
offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established before the effective date of this Code.
   (b)   The adoption of this Code does not authorize any use or the
continuation of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any village
ordinance on the effective date of this Code.
Sec. 1-12. Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
   (a)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the
validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance annexing property into
the village or describing the corporate limits.
      (2)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance de-annexing property or
excluding property from the village.
      (3)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments
of indebtedness.
      (4)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance authorizing or approving
any contract, deed, or agreement.
      (5)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance making or approving any
appropriation or budget.
      (6)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance providing for salaries or
other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
      (7)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance granting any right or
franchise.
      (8)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance adopting or amending the
comprehensive plan.
      (9)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance levying or imposing any
special assessment.
      (10)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance dedicating,
establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening,
repairing, or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.
      (11)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance establishing the grade
of any street or sidewalk.
      (12)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance dedicating, accepting,
or vacating any plat or subdivision.
      (13)   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance levying, imposing or
otherwise relating to taxes not codified in this Code.
      (14)   The village's zoning ordinance.
      (15)   Any ordinance rezoning property.
      (16)   Any ordinance or portion of ahy ordinance that is temporary,
although general in effect.
      (17{'}'}   Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance that is special,
although permanent in effect.
         (18)    Any ordinance or portion of any ordinance the purpose of which
has been accomplished.
   (b)   The ordinances or portions of ordinances designated in subsection (a)
of this section continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if
published at length in this Code.
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION
Article I. In General
Section
2-1. -2-30   Reserved..
Article II. Village Council
Section
2-31.   Compensation
Section
2-32-2-60   Reserved
Article Ill. Officers and Employees
Division 1. Generally
Section
2-61-2-65   Clerk and Treasurer Appointment
Section
2-66-2-80   Reserved
Division 2. Business Manager
Section
2-81.   Establishment of Office
Section
2-82.   Appointment
Section
2-83.   Removal
Section
2-84.   Acting Village Business Manager
Section
2-85.   Duties
Section
2-86.   Public Stance in Performance of Duties
Section
2-87.   Special Requirements
Section
2-88.   Selection Election Guidelines
Division 3. Mobile Home Park Enforcement Officer
Section
2-89.   Ordinance Enforcement
Section
2-90-2-115
Article IV. Finance
Section
2-116.   Sale of Village Real Estate
Section
2-117.   Bond Ordinance
Section
2-118-2-150   Reserved
Article V. Boards and Commissions
Section
2-151-2-184   Reserved
Article VI. Civil Infractions
Section
2-185.   Definitions
Section
2-186.   Actions; Commencement
Section
2-187.   Citations; issuance and service
Section
2-188.   Contents
Section
2-189.   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
Section
2-190.   Schedule of Fines Established
Section
2-191.   Municipal Civil Infractions
*Cross references - Enforcing agency for state construction case, §
10-1 downtown development authority § 26- 31" seq; elections,
ch 30; planning,
ch 50; utilities,
ch 70
State Law reference-Villages generally MCL 61.1 et seq, MSA 5.1201 et seq.
**** Article I. In General ****
Sections 2-1-21-30 Reserved
**** Article II. Village Council ****
Sec. 2-31. Compensation.
   (a)   Each trustee of the village shall be paid a sum of $45 for each
regular meeting of the village council actually attended by him/her during his/
her term of office up to two (2) per month and or either operation or finance
meeting, except for the president pro-tern who will be paid a sum of $55.
   (b)   The president of the village shall be paid the sum of $90 for each
regular meeting of the village council actually attended by him/her during
his\her term of office up to one (1) per month. The President also shall
receive $45.00 per operations and finance meetings attended per month.
   (c)   All trustees and the president of the village shall be paid a sum of
$35 for one special meeting/study session per month actually attended
regardless of how many special meetings are held and attended by the members of
the council.
   (d)   The compensation due to the president and each trustee shall be paid
quarterly from the general fund of the village.
State law reference - Compensation of president and trustees, MCI 64.21, MSA
5.1263.
Sec. 2-32.2-60 Reserved
**** Article III.
Division 1. Generally ****
** Sec. 2-61-2-65 Clerk and Treasurer Appointment **
Sec. 2-61. Nomination by Village President.
The Village President shall nominate qualified individuals to serve as Village
Clerk and Village Treasurer.
Sec. 2-62. Appointment by Village Council.
Upon nomination of a candidate for Clerk or Treasurer by the Village President,
the Village Council shall appoint or reject the nominee by majority vote of
those present.
Sec. 2-63. Clerk Term of Office.
The Village Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Council,
commencing as of the effective date of this Ordinance.
Sec. 2-64. Treasurer Term of Office.
The Village Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Council
commencing as of the effective date of this Ordinance
Sec. 2-65. Removal from Office.
The Village Council may remove the Clerk or Treasurer from office by an
affirmative vote of at least five (5) of the seven members of the Village
Council.
Sec. 2-66-2-80 Reserved.
**** Division 2. Village Manager ****
Sec. 2-81. Establishment of Office
Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act No.3 of 1895 (Mel 61.1 et. seq., MSA
5.1201 et seq.), the Village establishes the position of Village Manager (Ord.
No. 122, § 1, 1-13-1977)
Sec. 2-82. Appointment
A Village Manager shall be appointed by resolution duly adopted by a minimum of
four members of the Village Council. The Village Manger shall be selected on
the basis of business administrative abilities with special reference to
training and experience in civic business management and other criteria as
defined by Village Council. Subject to other terms of this article, the Village
Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Council; however, the
Village council may enter into an employment contract with the Village Manager
on such terms and conditions as the Village Council deems appropriate.
(Ord. NO. 122, § 2,1-13-1997)
Sec. 2-83. Removal
Prior to the involuntary removal of a Village Manager, the Council shall
conduct a hearing on the issue of removal. The Village Manager shall be given
at least seven days' written notice of the hearing. A Village Manager may be
involuntarily removed by a resolution duly adopted by a minimum of four members
of the Village Council. A removal shall be deemed involuntary unless pursuant
to resignation or death of the Village Manager.
(Ord. No. 122, § 3,1-13-1997)
Sec. 2-84. Acting village manager.
The council may appoint an acting village manager to serve during a vacancy in
office of the village manager or during the absence of the village manager from
his duties. The acting village manager assumes his duties until the village
manager returns from an approved absence or upon a resolution duly adopted by
the council.
(Ord. No. 122, § 4, 1-13-1997)
Sec. 2-85. Duties.
The village manager shall be responsible to the village council and report
directly to the Village President, for the efficient performance of all of the
following duties:
   (1)   Enforcing all village contracts and franchises.
   (2)   Performs high-level administrative, technical and professional work in
directing and supervising the administration of the village. In cooperation
with Village Department Managers, Oversees the efficient functioning of all
village utilities, improvements, works, the police and fire departments, and
the undertakings of the department of public works, the water treatment plant
and Lexington Municipal Mobile Home Park.
   (3)   Making recommendations to the village council on issues of employment,
salaries and discharge of all village employees.
      (3b)   Assures ongoing compliance with all applicable state and federal
laws and regulations related to the village government.
   (4)   Representing the village council and carrying out all instructions of
the village council.
   (5)   Directly supervising the village office staff in all matters except
those imposed by law on the village clerk or treasurer.
   (6)   Acting as purchasing agent for the village. The duties of purchasing
agent may be delegated by the village manager to another village employee;
however, such a delegation shall not relieve the village manager of the
responsibilities for the proper conduct of those duties. The village manager
shall not purchase any goods or services the cost of which exceeds $2,000.00
without prior approval of the council, nor shall the village manager purchase
goods or services unless funds have been appropriated and the purchase price
does not exceed the unencumbered balance of the appropriation for that account.
The village manager shall have the authority to purchase any product or service
regardless of cost when such purchase is necessary to avoid any disruption of a
village service essential to the public health and/or safety.
   (7)   Preparing and presenting an annual itemized budget and the preparation
of such financial reports as are necessary to keep the village council fully
informed on the financial conditions and needs of the village.
   (8)   Preparing and presenting monthly reports on the activities of the
village administration for which the village manager is responsible.
   (9)   Attending all meetings of the village council, providing information,
data, research and advice in an impartial manner with the right to take part in
discussions but without the right to vote.
   (10)   Making recommendations to the village council for the adoption of
such measures as he).;he deems necessary or expedient for the betterment of the
village.
   (11)   Attending, when requested, meetings of the downtown development
authority and the village planning commission, providing information, data,
research and advice in an impartial manner with the right to take part in
discussions but without the right to vote.
   (12)   Attending, in his discretion, meetings of all other committees,
boards and commissions of the village to cooperate as much as time permits to
facilitate their function, but without the right to vote.
   (13)   Investigating all complaints involving the government of the village,
providing services by public utilities in the village, and enforcing all terms
of any village franchises, permits and privileges involved.
   (14)   Performing all duties of the zoning and land use administrator as set
forth in the village zoning ordinance.
   (14b)   Write grand applications and administer grants
   (15)   Performing such other duties as the village council directs that
pertain to the general management of the village.
(Ord. No. 122, § 5, 1-13-1997)
Sec. 2-86. Publicstance in performance of duties.
The village manager shall take a totally apolitical position in the
performances, duties, activities and responsibilities required by his position
and shall respond to all members of the council in an equal and impartial
manner.
(Ord. No. 122, § 6, l-13 1997)
Sec. 2-87 Special Requirements:
   (1)   Must be bondable
   (2)   Must have demonstrated skill in enterprise management and the ability
to provide management leadership of the Village of Lexington Municipal Mobile
Home Park, and Water Department.
   (3)   Requires frequent use of personal computer, including word processing
and spreadsheet programs; calculator, telephone, copy and fax machines.
   (4)   The physical demands described here are representative of those that
must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of
the job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions.
   (5)   While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently
required to talk or hear. The employee is occasionally required to walk; use
finger, handle, or feel objects, tools, or controls; and reach hands and arms.
The employee must occasionally Ii   and or move up to 30 pounds. Specific
vision abilities required by this job include close vision and the ability to
adjust focus. The noise level in the work environment is usually moderately
quiet. The employee may be required to traverse undeveloped land.
   (6)   Must be licensed and able to operate a motor vehicle.
Sec. 2-88 Selection Election Guidelines
   (1)   Formal application, rating of education and experience; oral interview
and reference check; job related tests may be required.
   (2)   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   (3)   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement
between the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as
the needs of the employer and the needs of the job change.
** Sec. 2-89--2-115. Reserved **
**** DIVISION 3. Mobile Home Park Enforcement Officer ****
Sec. 2-89 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT
   A.   Uniformed Officers
The Village Police Department, the County Sheriff Department or State Police
shall enforce the laws and regulations pertaining to the Lexington Municipal
Mobile Home Park (LMMHP) within the jurisdiction of the Village and the LMMHP
Manager shall solicit their assistance as necessary.
   B.   LMMHP Manager
The LMMHP Manager is authorized to issue municipal infraction notices and
Citations arising in the LMMHP.
SEVERABILITY
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be held
to be invalid, the invalid of such section, paragraph, clause O provision shall
not affect any of the other provisions of the ordinance.
CONFLICT AND REPEALER
Conflicts
All Ordinances or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions this
ordinance, are to be the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Repealer
If parties of this ordinance are for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of remaining portion of this ordinance.
Sec. 2-90-2-115 Reserved
**** Article VI. Finance ****
Sec. 2-116 Sale of Village Real Estate
   (a)   Any real estate owned by the Village, except property used or
dedicated for use as a public park, may be sold at a private sale upon such
terms and conditions as the Village Council shall deem appropriate.
   (b)   Any sale of real estate owned by the Village shall be approved, if at
all, by resolution duly adopted by a concurring vote of two-thirds of the
council members. The vote shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered in the
council minutes.
   (c)   The resolution referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall
specify which officers of the Village are authorized to execute any documents
necessary to effectuate the sale. (Ord. No. 117,§§ 1-3, 1-9-1995)
State law reference- Sale of public property, MCL 67.4, MSA 5-1288.
   AN ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF REVENUE REFUNDING BOND
TO PAY THE COST OF REFUNDING ALL OR PART OF THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON'S WATER
SUPPLY SYSTEM REVENUE BOND, SERIES 1996 AND SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
REVENUE BOND, SERIES 1996 AND TO PRESCRIBE THE FORM OF THE BOND; TO PROVIDE FOR
THE COLLECTION OF REVENUES FROM THE SYSTEM SUFFICIENT FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING
THE COSTS OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM AND TO PAY THE PRINCIPAL
OF AND INTEREST ON THE BOND AND CERTAIN OUTSTANDING BONDS OF EQUAL STANDING OF
THE SYSTEM; TO PROVIDE AN ADEQUATE RESERVE FUND FOR THE BOND AND OUTSTANDING
BONDS OF THE SYSTEM; TO PROVIDE FOR THE SEGREGATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE
REVENUES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE HOLDERS OF THE BOND AND OUTSTANDING
BONDS OF THE SYSTEM IN ENFORCEMENT THEREOF; TO CURE DEFICIENCES IN RESPECT OF
ISSUANCE OF CERTAIN PRIOR OBUGATIONS; TO PROVIDE FOR THE RATIFICATION AND
APPROVAL OF ACTIONS TAKEN HERETOFORE; AND TO PROVIDE FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING
TO THE SYSTEM AND THE BOND AND OUTSTANDING BONDS OF THE SYSTEM.
Sec. 2-117 Bond Ordinance
Definitions.
Whenever used in this Ordinance, except when otherwise indicated by the
context, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   (a)   "Act94" means Act 94, Public Acts of Michigan, 1933, as amended.
   (b)   ''Bond" or "Bonds" means the Refunding Bonds, and any additional Bonds
presently of equal standing or herea er issued.
   (c)   "Issuer"or "Village" means the Village of Lexington, County of
Sanilac, State of Michigan.
   (d)   "1984 Bonds"means the Issuer's Sanitary Sewage Disposal System
Improvement Revenue Bond, Series 1984, dated Allgust 15, 1984, in the
outstanding principal amount of Four Hundred Fifty Four Thousand Dollars
($454,000), which bonds matured serially on July 1st in each of the years 2003
to 2024, inclusive.
   (e)   "1993A Bonds"means the Issuer's Water Supply System Revenue Bond,
Series 1993A, dated March 17, 1993, in the outstanding principal amount of
Eighty Six Thousand Dollars ($86,000), which bonds matured serially on January
1st in each of the years 2003 to 2033, inclusive.
   (f)   "19938 Bonds"means the Issuer's Water Supply System Revenue Bond,
Series 19936, dated March 17, 1993, in the outstanding principal amount of Six
Hundred Ninety Six Thousand ($696,000), which bonds matured serially on January
1st in each of the years 2003 to 2033, inclusive.
   (g)   "1996 Sewer Bonds" means the Issuer's Sanitary Sewage Disposal System,
in the outstanding principal amount of Six Hundred Thousand Dollars ($600,000),
which bonds matured serially on October 1st of each of the years 2002 to 2035,
inclusive.
   (h)   "1996 Water Bonds' means the Issuer's Water Supply System Revenue
Bond, Series 1996, dated March 13, 1996, in the outstanding principal amount of
Five Hundred Eighty Six Thousand Dollars ($586,000), which bonds matured
serially on October 1st of each of the years 2002 to 2035, inclusive.
   (i)   "Outstanding Ordinances"means the ordinances of the Issuer authorizing
issuance of the Prior Outstanding Bonds.
   (j)   "Prior Outstanding Bonds' means the 1984 Bonds, the 1993A Bonds, the
1993B Bonds, the 1996 Sewer Bonds, and the 1996 Water Bonds outstanding as of
August 23, 2002.
   (k)   "Purchaser' means Citizens First Savings Bank, Port Huron, Michigan,
as the purchaser of the Refunding Bond.
   (I)   "Refunded Bonds"means all of the outstanding 1996 Sewer Bonds and all
of the outstanding 1996 Water Bonds outstanding as of August 23, 2002.
   (m)   "Refunding Bond"means the Revenue Refunding Bond, Series 2002 of the
Issuer authorized by this Ordinance.
   (n)   "Revenues"and "Net Revenues" mean the revenues and net revenues of the
System and shall be construed as defined in Section 3 of Act 94, including with
respect to "Revenues," the earnings derived from the investment of moneys in
the various funds and accounts established by the Outstanding Ordinances and
this Ordinance.
   (o)   "Sufficient Government Obligations" means direct obligations of the
United States of America or obligations the principal and interest on which is
fully guaranteed by the United States of America, not redeemable at the option
of the issuer, the principal and interest payments upon which, without
reinvestment of the interest, come due at such times and in such amounts as to
be fully sufficient to pay the interest as it comes due on the Bond and the
principal and redemption premium, if any, on the Bond as it comes due whether
on the stated maturity date or upon earlier redemption. Securities representing
such obligations shall be placed in trust with a bank or trust company, and if
the Bond is called for redemption prior to maturity, irrevocable instructions
to call the Bond for redemption shall be given to the paying agent.
   (p)   "System"means the Water Supply System and Sanitary Sewage Disposal
System of the Village as defined in the Outstanding Ordinances, combined for
purposes of this Ordinance pursuant to Section 6.
   (q)   "Transfer Agent"means Citizens First Savings Bank, Port Huron,
Michigan.
   (r)   "2002 Note" means the Issuer's $1,207,011.23 Promissory Note dated
August 23, 2002.
Section 2. Necessity: Public Purpose.
It is hereby determined to be a necessary public purpose of the Issuer to cure
certain prior actions of the Issuer with respect to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds and to give effect to such refunding.
Section 3. Payment of Cost: Bond Authorized.
To pay the costs associated with the refunding of the Refunded Bonds, including
all legal, financial and other expenses incident thereto and incident to the
issuance and sale of the Bond, the Issuer shall borrow the sum of not to exceed
One Million Two Hundred Seven Thousand Eleven Dollars and Twenty Three Cents
($1,207,011.23), and issue the Refunding Bond therefor pursuant to the
provisions of Act 94. The remaining costs, if any, of refunding the Refunded
Bonds shaII be defrayed from System funds on hand and legally available for
such use, including moneys in the bond reserve account established for the
Prior Outstanding Bonds.
Section 4. Bond Details, Registration and Execution.
The Bond hereby authorized shall be designated REVENUE REFUNDING BOND, SERIES
2002, shall be payable solely and only out of the Net Revenues, as set forth
more fully herein, shall consist of one (1) single fully-registered bond in the
denomination of $1,207,011.23, dated as of the date of delivery, and shall
mature on September 1st in the years 2003 to 2022, inclusive. The Bond shall be
sold at par. The Bond shall bear interest at a rate determined pursuant to
Section 13, payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing March
1, 2003, by check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to the person or entity
which is, as of the 15th day of the month preceding the interest payment date,
the registered owner at the registered address as shown on the registration
books of the Issuer maintained by the Transfer Agent. The date of determination
of registered owner for purposes of payment of interest as provided in this
paragraph may be changed by the Issuer to conform to market practice in the
future. The principal of the Bond shall be payable at the principal offices of
the Transfer Agent. The Bond shall be subject to optional redemption by the
Issuer with the prior written approval of the Purchaser and on such terms as
may be permitted under the 2002 Note. The Bond shall be executed in the name of
the Issuer with the manual or facsimile signatures of the President and the
Issuer's Clerk and shall have a facsimile of the Issuer's seal printed on them.
After execution, the Bond shall be held by the Issuer's Treasurer for delivery.
The Bond shall be delivered to the Purchaser by the Issuer's Treasurer in full
substitution of and in exchange for the 2002 Note, it being the purpose of this
Ordinance to clarify and cure certain omissions in the prior proceedings
respecting the 2002 Note. Following the substitution of the Bond for the 2002
Note, the 2002 Note shall be null and void, and the holder of the 2002 Note
shall have no further right, claim or interest in the 2002 Note or the security
granted therefore excepting the Bond and the security pledged therefore.
Section 5. Registration and Transfer.
The Bond may be transferred in whole but not in part upon the books required to
be, kept pursuant to this Section, by the person in whose name it is
registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of
such Bond, accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written instrument of
transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. The Transfer Agent shall
require the payment by the bondholder requesting the transfer of any tax or
other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer. The
Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office,
sufficient books for the registration and transfer of the Bond, which shall at
all times be open to inspection by the Issuer.
Section 6. Combined Public Improvement.
Pursuant to Section 20a of Act 94, the Issuer hereby determines to operate its
water supply system and sanitary sewage disposal system as a combined public
improvement for purposes of this Ordinance and specifically the pledge of
security contained herein. For outstanding obligations of the Issuer pledging
the revenues of the water supply system or the sanitary sewage disposal system,
the Bond shall be considered subject to such prior pledge.
Section 7. Payment of Bond
The Bond and the interest thereon shall be payable solely and only from the Net
Revenues, and to secure such payment, there is hereby recognized a statutory
lien upon the whole of the Net Revenues which shall be a first lien to continue
until payment in full of the principal of and interest on all Bonds payable
from the Net Revenues, or, until sufficient cash or Sufficient Government
Obligations have been deposited in trust for payment in full of all Bonds of a
seriesthen outstanding, principal and interest on such Bonds to maturity, or,
if called for redemption, to the date fixed for redemption together with the
amount of the redemption premium, if any. Upon deposit of cash or Sufficient
Government Obligations, as provided in the previous sentence, the statutory
lien shall be terminated with respect to that series of Bonds, the holders of
that series shall have no further rights under this Ordinance except for
payment from the deposited funds, and the Bonds of that series shall no longer
be considered to be outstanding under this Ordinance.
Section 8. Rates and Charges.
The rates and charges for service furnished by and the use of the System and
the methods of collection and enforcement of the collection of the rates shall
be those in effect on date even herewith, as the same may be increased from
time to time.
Section 9. No Free Service or Use.
No free service or use of the System, or service or use of the System at less
than the reasonable cost and value thereof, shall be furnished by the System to
any person, firm or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or
instrumentality, including the Issuer.
Section 10. Fixing and Revising Rates.
The rates presently in effect in the Issuer are estimated to be sufficient to
provide for the payment of the expenses of administration and operation and
such expenses for maintenance of the System as are necessary to preserve the
System in good repair and working order, to provide for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the Bond as the same become due and payable, and
the maintenance of the reserve therefore and to provide for all other
obligations, expenditures and funds for the System required by law and this
Ordinance. The rates shall be reviewed not less than once a year and shall be
fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to produce these
amounts, and it is hereby covenanted and agreed to fix and maintain rates for
services furnished by the System at all times sufficient to provide for the
foregoing.
Section 11. Funds and Accounts; Flow of Funds.
The funds and accounts established by the Outstanding Ordinances are hereby
continued, the flow of funds established by the Outstanding Ordinances, as
amended, is hereby continued, and the applicable sections of the Outstanding
Ordinances, as amended, relating to funds and accounts and flow of funds are
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth.
Section 12. Bond Form.
The Bond shall be in substantially the following form:
R-I
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF SANILAC
VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON
REVENUE REFUNDING BOND, SERIES 2002
 
Interest Rate Maturity Date Date of Original Issue
September 1, 2022           August 23, 2002
 
REGISTERED OWNER: Citizens First Savings Bank, Port Huron, Michigan
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: ONE MILLION TWO HUNDRED SEVEN THOUSAND ELEVEN DOLLARS AND
TWENTY THREE CENTS ($1,207,011.23)
The Village of Lexington, County of Sanilac, State of Michigan (the "Issuer"),
for value received, hereby promises to pay, solely and only out of the
hereinafter described Net Revenues of the Issuer's Water Supply System and
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (hereinafter defined) the Principal Amount
specified above in lawful money of the United States of America to the
Registered Owner specified above, or registered assigns, on the Maturity Date
specified above, unless prepaid prior thereto as hereinafter provided, with
interest thereon (computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months) from the Date of Original Issue specified above or such later
date to which interest has been paid, until paid, at the Interest Rate per
annum specified above, payable on March 1, 2003, and semiannually thereafter.
Principal of this bond is payable at Citizens First Savings Bank, Port Huron,
Michigan (the "Transfer Agent") or such other Transfer Agent as the Issuer may
hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered owner not less than 60
days prior to any interest payment date. Interest on this bond is payable by
check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to the person or entity who is, as
of the 15th day of the month preceding the interest payment date, the
registered owner of record, at the registered. address as shown on the
registration books of the Issuer kept by the Transfer Agent. For prompt payment
of principal and interest on this bond, the Issuer has irrevocably pledged the
revenues of the Water Supply System and Sanitary Sewage Disposal System of the
Issuer (the "System",), including all appurtenances, extensions and
improvements thereto, after provision has been made for reasonable and
necessary expenses of operation, maintenance and adminlstration (the "Net
Revenues"), and a statutory first lien thereon is hereby recognized and
created.
This bond a single, fully-registered bond in the principal amount of
$1,207,011.23, issued pursuant to Ordinance Nos. 83, 107, 119, and 120 of the
Issuer, duly adopted by the Village Council of the Issuer (the "Ordinances"),
and under and in full compliance with the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Michigan, including specifically Act 94, Public Acts of Michigan,
1933, as amended, for the purpose of paying the cost of refunding certain of
the Issuer's outstanding Sanitary Sewage Disposal System Revenue Bond, Series
1996 and the Issuer's Water Supply System Revenue Bond, Series 1996.
This Bond is subject to optional redemption by the Issuer with the prior
written approval of the Registered Owner and on such terms as may be required
by the Registered Owner.
For a complete statement of the revenues from which and the conditions under
which this bond is payable, a statement of the conditions under which
additional bonds of equal standing as to the Net Revenues may hereafter be
issued and the general covenants and provisions pursuant to which this bond is
issued, reference is made to the above-described Ordinances.
This bond is a self-liquidating bond and is not a general obligation of the
Issuer and does not constitute an indebtedness of the Issuer within any
constitutional, charter or statutory debt limitation of the Issuer but is
payable solely and only, both as to principal and interest, from the Net
Revenues of the System. The principal of and interest on this bond are secured
by the statutory lien hereinbefore mentioned.
The Issuer has covenanted and agreed, and does hereby covenant and agree, to
fix and maintain at all times while any bonds payable from the Net Revenues of
the System shall be outstanding, such rates for service furnished by the System
as shall be sufficient to provide for payment of the interest on and the
principal of the bonds of this issue and any additional bonds of equal standing
as and when the same shall become due and payable, and to create and maintain a
bond redemption fund (including a bond reserve account) therefore, to provide
for the payment of expenses of administration and operation and such expenses
for maintenance of the System as are necessary to preserve the same in good
repair and working order, and to provide for such other expenditures and funds
for the System as are required by the Ordinances.
This bond is transferable only upon the books of the Issuer kept for that
purpose at the office of the Transfer Agent by the registered owner hereof in
person, or by the registered owner's attorney duly authorized in writing, upon
the surrender of this bond together with a written instrument of transfer
satisfactory to the Transfer Agent duly executed by the registered owner or the
registered owner's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new
registered bond or bonds in the same aggregate principal amount and of the same
maturity shall be issued to the transferee in exchange therefore as provided"
in the Ordinance authorizing the bonds, and upon the payment of the charges, if
any, therein prescribed.
It is hereby certified and recited that all acts, conditions and things
required by law precedent to and in the issuance of this bond and the series of
bonds of which this is one have been done and performed in regular and due time
and form as required by law.
This bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's
Certificate of authentication on this bond has been executed by the Transfer
Agent.
Section 13. Negotiated Sale of Bond.
The Issuer hereby declares that it pursued a negotiated sale of the 2002 Note,
and is pursuing a negotiated sale of the Bond, to provide more flexibility as
to the timing and structure of the 2002 Note and the Bond and to price and sell
the 2002 Note and the Bond at the time that may be expected to best achieve the
most advantageous interest rate and lowest issuance cost. The President,
Village Manager and Village Treasurer are each authorized to negotiate the sale
of the Bond to the Purchaser, to provide for delivery of the Bond to the
Purchaser in exchange for the 2002 Note, the release of security therefore, and
to do all other acts and take all other necessary procedures required to
effectuate the sale, issuance and delivery of the Bond. Actions of the
President, Village Manager and Village Treasurer taken heretofore are hereby
ratified, confirmed and approved. The offer of the Purchaser to purchase the
Bond in the principal amount of $1,207,011.23, at par, bearing interest at a
rate determined pursuant to this Section 13 and subject to redemption with the
prior written consent of the Purchaser is hereby ratified, accepted and
approved. The Bond shall bear interest at a rate sufficient to produce savings
with respect to the net present value of the principal and interest to be paid
on the Bond, including the cost of issuance, compared to the net present value
of the principal and interest to be paid on the Refunded Bonds, provided that
in any event such rate shall not exceed that permitted by law.
Section 14. Authorization of Other Actions.
The President, Village Manager and Village Treasurer are each hereby authorized
to take all other action necessary or advisable as any shall deem appropriate
so as to enable the issuance and delivery of the Bond as contemplated herein
including adjusting the final Bond details set forth herein to the extent
necessary or convenient to complete the transaction authorized herein, and in
pursuance of the foregoing are authorized to exercise the authority and make
the determinations authorized pursuant to Section 7a(1)(c) of Act 94 including
but not limited to, determinations regarding aggregate principal amount,
interest rates, prices, discounts, maturities, principal amounts,
denominations, dates of issuance, interest payment dates, redemption rights,
the place of delivery and payment, and other matters, provided that the Bond
shall not exceed the parameters authorized in this ordinance. The President,
Village Manager and Village Treasurer are further authorized to make any
filings and apply for any waivers or other orders from or with the Michigan
Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service as may be necessary or
advisable with respect to the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bond and to
pay any filing fees related thereto, including but not limited to Michigan
Department of Treasury Security Report and Internal Revenue Service Form 8038-
G.
Section 15. Qualified Tax Exempt Obligations.
The Issuer hereby designates the Bond as a "qualified tax exempt obligation"
for purposes of deduction of interest expense by financial institutions
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
Section 16. Tax Matters.
The Issuer shall, to the extent permitted by law, take all actions within its
control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bond from
gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Code, including, but not
limited to, actions relating to any required rebate of arbitrage earnings and
the expenditures and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be Bond
proceeds.
Section 17. Ratification of Issuance.
Based on the advice of Bond Counsel, the Issuer has determined that it is
appropriate to resolve certain ambiguities with respect to the 2002 Note as
originally authorized and issued. The Issuer intends this bond authorizing
ordinance to clarify and cure any deficiencies in the authorization and
issuance of the 2002 Note, and further intends that the Bond shall be
substituted for the 2002 Note as if the Bond had been issued on
August 23, 2002, in place of the 2002 Note. Actions of the Issuer, its
President, Manager, Treasurer, Clerk, officials and staff taken heretofore with
respect to the negotiation, preparation, sale, delivery and issuance of the
Bond are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
Section 18. Savings Clause.
The Outstanding Ordinances shall continue in effect, except as specifically
supplemented or altered herein.
Section 19. Severability; Paragraph Headings, and Conflict.
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be held
invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall
not affect any of the other provisions of this Ordinance. The paragraph
headings in this Ordinance are furnished for convenience of reference only and
shall not be considered to be part of this Ordinance.
Section 20. Publication and Recordation.
This Ordinance shall be published in full in the Sanilac County News, a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village, qualified under State law to
publish legal notices, promptly after its adoption, and shall be recorded in
the Ordinance Book of the Issuer and such recording authenticated by the
signatures of the President and Village Clerk.
Section 21. Effective Date.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 6 of Act 94, this Ordinance shall be
approved on the date of first reading and accordingly this Ordinance shall
immediately be effective upon its adoption.
Section 2-118.-2-150 Reserved
**** Article V. Boards and Commissions ****
Section 2-151.-2-184 Reserved
**** Article VI. Civil Infractions ****
Sec. 2-185. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Act means the Michigan Revised Judicature Act of 1961 (MCI 600.101 et seq., MSA
27A.101 et seq.).
Authorized village official means a police officer, building official, zoning
enforcement officer, or other personnel of the village authorized by this Code
or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal
civil infraction violation notices.
Bureau means the Village of Lexington Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau as
established by this article.
Municipal civil infradion action means a civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal infraction.
Municipal civil infraction citation means a written complaint or notice
prepared by an authorized village official, directing a person to appear in
court regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction
violation by the person cited.
Municipal civil infraction violation notice means a written notice prepared by
an authorized village official, directing a person to appear at the Village of
Lexington Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs,
if any, prescribed for the violation by the scheduled of civil fines as
authorized under section 8396 and 8707(6) of the act (MCI 600.8396, 600.8707
(6), MSA 27A.8396, 27A.8707(6».
Sec. 2-186. Action; Commencement
A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized office of:
   1.   A municipal civil infraction directing the alleged violator to appear
in court; or
   2.   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Village of Lexington Municipal Ordinance Violations
Bureau.
Sec. 2-187. Citations; issuance and service.
   (a)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized village officials as follows;
      1.   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citations is issued.
      2.   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the
district court.
      3.   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the court. The original citation shall be filed with the district
court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the Village and issued to
the alleged violator as provided by section 8705 of ac (MCL 600.8705,
MSA27A.8705)
      4.   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
Village official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: "I declare under the penalties of perjury that
the statement above are true to the best of my information, knowledge, and
belief."
      5.   An authorized village official may issue a citation to a person if:
         a.   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
         b.   Based upon the investigation of a complaint by someone who
allegedly witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the
official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an
infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or Village attorney approve in
writing the issuance of the citation.
   (b)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
Village Official as follows:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, an authorized Village official shall
personally Serve as copy of the citation upon the alleged violator.
      2.   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy of the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner
of the land, building or structure at the owner's last known address.
(Ord. No. 99-3, § 99-3.02.00, 8-29-1999)
Sec. 2-188. Contents
   (a)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and address of
the Alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the place where
the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court
and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (b)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he may do
one of the following:
      1.   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
      2.   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction with
explanation by mail by the time specified for appearance, in person or by
representation.
      3.   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either or the following:
         a.   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the Village.
         b.   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
         c.   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all the
following:
      1.   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility with
explanation in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      2.   That is the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
Representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a Scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date Is specified on
the citation.
      3.   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
Is requested by the alleged violator or the Village.
      4.   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person Before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
Being represented by an attorney
      5.   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before A judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney
   (d)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that the failure
of the Alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the Time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
Result in entry of a default judgment again the alleged violator on the
Municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. No. 99-3, §99-3.03.00,8-29-1999)
Sec. 2-189. Municipal ordinance violations bureau.
   (a)   Bureau established. The village hereby establishes a municipal
ordinance violations bureau (bureau) as authorized under section 8396 of the
act (MCL 600.8396, MSA 27A.8396) to accept admission of responsibility for
municipal civil infractions in response to municipal civil infraction violation
notices issued and served by authorized village officials, and to collect and
retain civil fines and costs as prescribed by this Code or any ordinance.
   (b)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations. The bureau
shall be located at the village hall, and shall be under the supervision and
control of the treasurer of the village. The treasurer, subject to the approval
of the council, shall adopt rules and regulations for the operation of the
bureau and appoint any necessary qualified employees to administer the bureau.
   (c)   Disposition of violations. The bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice, as opposed to a citation, has been
issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a particular violation
shall not entitle any person to dispose of the violation at the bureau. Nothing
in this article shall prevent or restrict an official of the village from
issuing a municipal civil infraction citation for any violation or from
prosecuting any violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (d)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The scope of
the bureau's Authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation. No person shall bN
required to dispose of a municipal civil infraction violation at the bureau and
may have the violation processed. before a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the bureau shall
not prejudice the person or in any way diminish the person's rights, privileges
and protection accorded by law.
   (e)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. Municipal ciN infraction
violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized village officials
under the same circumstances and upon the same persons as provided for
citations. In addition to any other information required by this Code or other
.ordinance, the notice of violation shall indicate the time by which the
alleged violator must appear at the bureau, the methods by which an appearance
may be made, the address and telephone number of the bureau, the hours during
which the bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged
violation, and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the required fine
within the required time.
   (f)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the bureau and
pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in
the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by
mail, in person, or by representation.
   (g)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized village official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an 13:dmission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may
be filed with the district court and a copy of the citation may be served by
first class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator's last known
address; The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all
particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by sections 8705
and 8709 of the act (MCL 600.8705, 600.8709, MSA 27A.8705, 27A.8709), but shall
consist ofa sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal
ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to
respond to the citation.
Sec. 2-190. Schedule of fines established
   (a)   A schedule of civil fines payable to the bureau is hereby established
as part of the annual fee resolution. Persons served with munidpal civil
infraction violation notices may pay such fines directly to the bureau. Persons
served with a municipal civil infraction citation must appear in court to
answer the citation.
   (b)   Unless otherwise specifically designated, offenses designated as civil
infractions in this Code shall be considered as Grade A violations. The
schedule of fines which reference a grade for a code violation under this
ordinance are for purposes of establishing a fine payable at the bureau after
the issuance of a municipal civil infraction notice. When a municipal civil
infraction citation is issued, the fee schedule may be used by the District
Court as a guide or the assessment of a fine, in addition t court ordered
correction of the violation and assessment of costs.
   (c)   Each and ever day that a violation continues unabated is deemed a
separate offense. However, correction of the violation and payment of the fine
after issuance of a municipal civil infraction notice within 14 days of
issuance shall be considered a single day violation.
   (d)   A copy of the schedule of fines shall be posted at the clerk's office.
Sec. 2-191. Municipal Civil Infractions,
Violations of the following provisions of the Code of Ordinances are municipal
civil infractions:
Chapter 6 - Animals.
Chapter 34 - Noise, Nuisances, and Burning.
Chapter 38 - Article III, Curfew for Minors and Begging
Chapter 46 - Peddlers and Solicitors
Chapter 62 - Streets and Sidewalks
The Village of Lexington Zoning Ordinance.
Any other ordinance provisions which is specifically designated a municipal
civil infraction.
The Village of Lexington Council establishes by Resolution # 2006-04 the
Municipal Civil Infraction Violation Notice Fines henceforth from June 1, 2006,
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE FINES
 
VIOLATION 1st OFFENSE 2nd OFFENSE 3rd OFFENSE 4th OFFENSE
Grade A   $250,00     $50.00      $100.00     $150.00
Grade B   $100.00     $150.00     $225.00     $300.00
Grade C   $150.00     $200.00     $300.00     $400.00
Grade D   $250.00     $300,00     $400.00     $500.00
 
Adopted by Council May 15, 2006
Chapter 3
ANTI BLIGHT ORDINANCE
Section 3-1-3-3 Anti Blight Ordinance
An ordinance to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight, blighting factors or
causes within the Village of Lexington. The Village of Lexington ordains:
Section 1 Purpose:
Consistent with the letter and spirit of Act No. 344 of the Public Acts of
1945, as amended it is the purpose of this ordinance to prevent, reduce, or
eliminate blight of potential blight in the Village of Lexington by the
prevention or elimination of certain environmental causes of blight or
blighting factors which exist or may exist in the future.
Section 2 Causes of Blight or Blighting
It is hereby determined that the following uses, structures and activities are
causes of blight or blighting factors, which if allowed to exist will tend to
result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods. On and after the effective
date of this ordinance, no person, firm, or corporation of any kind shall
maintain or permit to be maintained any of these causes of blight or blighting
factors upon any property in the Village of Lexington owned, leased, rented or
occupied by such person, firm or corporation.
   A.   In any area of the Village the storage upon any property of junk
automobiles, except in a completely enclosed building. For the purpose of this
ordinance, the term junk automobile shall include any motor vehicle which is
not licensed for use upon the highways of the State of Michigan shall also
include, whether so licensed or not, any motor vehicle which is inoperative for
any reason
   B.   In any area the storage upon a property building materials, not
including building materials for a legally operated business, unless there is
in force a valid building permit for construction upon said property and said
materials are intended for use in connection with such construction. Building
materials shall include but shall not be limited to lumber, brick, concrete or
cinder blocks; plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating
ducts or equipment, shingles, concrete or cement, nails, screws or other
materials used in constructing any structures.
   C.   In any area the storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish or
refuse of any kind, except domestic refuse stored in such a manner as not to
create a nuisance for a period of not to exceed thirty days. The term, "junk"
shall include inoperative machinery or motor vehicles, un- used stoves or other
appliances stored in the open, remnants of woods, metal or any other materials
or other castoff material of any kind whether or not same could be put to any
reasonable use.
   D.   In any area the existence of any structure or part of any structure
which because of a fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable, as determined by County Building or
Health Inspector, if a dwelling, nor useful for any other purpose for which it
may have been intended. The Village must follow the procedures as listed below,
all inspection fees must be paid prior to inspections:
   •   Contact the property owner
   •   Contact the Village Attorney
   •   File the paperwork with the Court requesting an "Investigative Search
Warrant" naming the Sanilac County Department of Construction as the enforcing
agent.
   •   Reports will be written by the Sanilac County Inspectors and if it
deemed an unsafe structure, reports will be mailed to the Owner, Township and
Village.
   •   Report will be forwarded to the County Prosecutor's Office for a time
frame for the removal of the structure.
   E.   In any area the existence of any vacant dwelling, garage or other
outbuilding unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept
glassed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent entrance
thereto by vandals.
   F.   In any area the existence of any partially completed structure, unless
such structure is in the course of construction in accordance with all local
and state and regulations and unless such construction is completed within a
reasonable time.
Section 3. Enforcement and Penalties
   A.   This ordinance shall be enforced by the Village Business Manager or his
designee.
   B.   The owner, if possible, and the occupant of any property upon which any
of the causes of blight or blighting factors set forth in Section 2 hereof is
found to exist shall be notified in writing to remove or eliminate such causes
of blight or blighting factors from such property within 14 days after service
of the notice upon him. Such service may be served personally or by registered
mail, return receipt requested. Additional time may be granted by the
enforcement officer where bonafide efforts to remove or eliminate such causes
of blight or blighting factors are in progress.
   C.   Failure to comply with such notice within the time allowed by the owner
and /or occupant shall constitute a violation of this ordinance. Upon non-
compliance of this ordinance the property owner and/or occupant is subject to
payment of a fine $100.00. If said property owner and or occupant remain in non
compliance, fourteen days from the date of the first fine, he/she will be
subject to payment of a second fine of $200.00. If the property owner and/or
occupant is in non-compliance fourteen days from the date of second fine, he/
she is subject to a third fine of .$300.00. If said property owner and/or
occupant remains in non-compliance after the third fine, the fine will increase
by $100 per day that the property owner or occupant remains in non- compliance.
After thirty days after the third notice in non-compliance the violation of
said ordinance will be turned over to the court.
   D.   Violation of this ordinance shall be a misdemeanor which shall be
punishable upon -conviction thereof by a fine not exceeding One Thousand
Dollars ($1000) or by imprisonment for not exceeding thirty (30) days or by
both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
***** Chapters 4-5
Reserved *****
Chapter 4-5 Reserved
Chapter 6
ANIMALS*
Article I. In General
Secs.
6-1-6-30.   Reserved.
Article II. Dogs
Sec.
6-31.    Enforcement.
Sec.
6-32.    Impoundment.
Sec.
6-33.    Assumption of ownership.
Sec.
6-34.    Running at large prohibited.
Sec.
6-35.    Cleaning up defecation.
Sec.
6-36.    Regulated on public beaches.
Sec.
6-37.    Limitation on number kept.
*Cross references-Environment,
ch. 34; hunting, §
38-38.
State law references-General authority relative to animals, MCL 67.1{'{'}0),
(q), MSA 5.1285, (0), (q); local animal control ordinances, MCL 287.290, MSA
12.541.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Secs. 6-1-6-30. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II. DOGS* ****
*State law reference{'{'}s)--Dog Law of 1919, MCL 287.261 et seq., MSA 12.511
et seq.
Sec. 6-31. Enforcement.
The provisions of this article shall be enforced by designees of the village
business manager.
(Ord. No. 36, § 7, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 6-32. lmpoundment
It shall be the duty of the designees of the village business manager to take
into custody and impound any dog running at large in, and/or any unlicensed dog
found within, the village limits. Upon impounding such dog, the dog will be
placed in the custody of the county animal control officer.
(Ord. No. 36, § 8, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 6-33. Assumption of ownership.
Any person who shall permit a dog to remain about his premises for a period of
seven days shall be determined to be the owner of the dog within the meaning of
this article.
(Ord. No. 36, § 10, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 6-34. Running .at large prohibited
   (a)   No dog shall be allowed in any public building or on any public
street, sidewalk, park or other public property unless accompanied by its owner
or handler and controlled by either a rope, tether or leash not exceeding six
feet in length.
   (b)   No dog shall be permitted to run at large within the village limits;
however, any dog accompanied by and under the control of its owner, harborer,
keeper or other custodian shall not be considered as running at large.
(Ord. No. 36, §§ 1, 4, 10-14-1991)
State law reference-Authority to prevent dogs from running at large, MCL 67.l
(q), MSA 5.1285, (q).
Sec. 6-35. Cleaning up defecation.
No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any dog shall cause,
suffer or allow such dog to soil, defile, defecate or commit any nuisance on
any public street, sidewalk, park or other public property, or upon any private
property without permission of the owner of the property unless:
   (1{'}'}   The person who owns, harbors, keeps or is in charge of such dog
shall immediately remove all droppings deposited by such dog in any sanitary
method. The person shall possess a container of sufficient size to collect and
remove such dog droppings and exhibit the container, if requested, by any
official empowered to enforce this article.
*State law reference-Dog Law of 1919, MCL 287.261 et seq., MSA 12.511 et seq.
   2) The droppings so removed shall be disposed of by the person owning,
harboring, keeping or in charge of such dog in a sanitary method.
(Ord. No. 36, § 2, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 6-36. Regulated on public beaches.
Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person owning, harboring, keeping
or in charge ofany dog shall allow such dog on any property in the village
designated as a public beach.
(Ord. No. 36, § 3, 10-14-1991)
State law reference-Right to bring guide dogs or service dogs in public places,
MCL 750.502c, MSA 28.770(7/8).
Sec. 6-37. Limitation on number kept.
It shall be unlawful to own, possess, shelter, harbor, keep or have custody
ofmore than three dogs over six months old on the same premises except where
allowed by zoning.
(Ord. No. 36, § 6, 10-14-1991)
***** Chapters 7-9.
Reserved *****
Chapters 7-9. Reserved
Chapter 10
BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS*
Article I. In General
Sec.
10-1.   State construction code; enforcing agency.
Secs.
10-2-10-30.   Reserved.
Article II. Dangerous Buildings
Sec.
10-31.   Definitions.
Sec.
10-32.   Inspections.
Sec.
10-33.   Report to council.
Sec.
10-34.   Determination of nuisance.
Sec.
10-35.   Notice.
Sec.
10-36.   Serving notice.
Sec.
10-37.   Hearing objections.
Sec.
10-38.   Decision of council.
Sec.
10-39.   Order of council.
Sec.
10-40.   Condemnation.
Sec.
10-41.   Occupation of condemned building.
Sec.
10-42.   Removal of placard.
Sec.
10-43.   Order of council to demolish.
Sec.
10-44.   Expenses.
*Cross references-Community development,
ch. 26; environment,
ch. 34; planning,
ch. 50; solid waste,
ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62; utilities,
ch 70.
State law reference-General authority relative to building construction, MCL
67.l(m), (s), 70.7, MSA 5.1285, (m), (s), 5.1403.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Sec. 10-1. State construction code; enforcing agency.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 9 of Public Act No. 230 of 1972 (MCL
125.1509, MSA 5.2949(9)), the persons or agencies designated by the village
council are designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibilities of the village under Public Act No. 230 of 1972 (MCL 125.1501
et seq., MSA 5.2949(1) et seq.). Applications for building and other permits
required by the state construction code shall be made to persons or agencies
designated by the council.
Cross referenceyAdministration,
ch. 2.
Secs. 10-2-10-30. Reserved
**** ARTICLE II.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS* ****
Sec. 10-31. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Dangerous building means any building or structure that has any of the
following defects or is in any of the following conditions:
   (1)   Any place or premises that shall become damp, unwholesome, offensive
or filthy, or be covered during any portion of the year with stagnant or impure
water.
   (2)   Any building or structure that has become damaged by storm, wind, fire
or other calamities, and has not been reasonably or satisfactorily repaired
within 30 days, and has become dangerous to life and safety or the general
health and welfare of its occupants.
   (3)   Any structure or building that has been allowed to decay, dilapidate
or become unsafe or unfit or utterly fails to provide amenities essential to
decent living so as to likely cause slckness or injury.
   (4)   Any building or structure that, because of its condition, has become
structurally unsound or unsafe or is in a state of collapse or is likely to
collapse.
   (5)   Any building, any portion of which has settled to such an extent that
walls or other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds
than is required in the case of new construction by the state building code.
*Cross reference-Environment, ch. 34.
State law reference-Authority to remove dangerous buildings, MCL 67.l(s), MSA
5.1285, (s).
   (6)   Any building or structure or any part of a building or structure that,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay or faulty construction, is likely
to partially or completely collapse.
   (7)   Any building that for any reason whatsoever is manifestly unsafe for
the purpose for which it is used.
   (8)   Any building that has been so damaged by fire, wind or flood, or has
become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an attractive nuisance to
children who might play in such building to their danger, or as to afford a
harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 3, 6-5-1978)
Cross reference-Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 10-32. Inspections.
The village business manager shall cause periodic inspections to be made of all
buildings and structures within the village to determine their fitness,
suitability and safety for human occupancy and use and shall report to the
village council his related findings.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 4(1.3), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-33. Report to council.
When in the opinion of the village business manager any building or structure
within the village shall constitute or contain one or more of the conditions
and defects set forth in section 10-31, he shall report to the village council
in writing the building conditions then existing and its fitness for human
occupancy and use.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 4(1.4), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-34. Determination of nuisance.
Upon the receipt of the report of the village business manager referred to in
section
10-33, the village council shall cause such further inspection to be made ofthe
premises as they deem necessary. The council shall then determine by resolution
that the premises and/or structure constitutes a public nuisance under the
provisions of this article and applicable state law.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 5(1.1), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-35. Notice.
The village council shall immediately cause notice to be given to the owner and
occupants of the building or structure referred to in section
10-33, either in person or by certified mail, to the last known address of the
owner and occupant of the property in question. The notice shall be as follows:
   (1)   Be in writing.
   (2)   Include the description of the real estate sufficient for
identification and indicate the name of the last owner taken from the village
tax roll.
   (3)   Include a description of the repairs and improvements required to
bring the condemned building into compliance with the provisions of this
article and any rules or regulations adopted pursuant to this article.
   (4)   State the time and place of a regular or special meeting of the
village council at which time the owner and.occupant of the premises may appear
and state any objection to the determination of the village council.
(Ord. No. 64, art. S(l.2), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-36. Serving notice.
The person causing the notice referred to in section
10-35 to be served either personally or by mail shall file his proof of such
service by affidavit with the village clerk.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 5(1.3), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-37. Hearing objections.
Upon the hearing of objections, the village council may modify, change, affirm
or repeal its determination of a building coming under the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 5(1.4), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-38. Decision of council.
The council shall take testimony of the village business manager, the owner of
the property, and any interested party. The council shall render its decision,
either closing the proceedings or ordering the building to be demolished or
otherwise made safe.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 6(1), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-39. Order of council.
If it is determined by the village council that a building or structure should
be demolished or otherwise made safe, it shall so order, fixing a time in the
order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply with the order.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 6(2), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-40. Condemnation.
Should the owner or occupant fail to make the required repairs or improvements
or demolish a building as stated in the order referred to in section
10 39 within the time specified, the village business manager shall immediately
post in a conspicuous place a placard dated and signed by him: "Condemned as
Unsafe for Use and Unfit for Human Occupancy." Any building or structure so
posted shall be vacated within 30 days. No owner or agent shall let or lease
any part of such condemned premises to any person for human occupancy or use
after the date on which the premises have been ordered vacated.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 6(3), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-41. Occupation of condemned building.
No building that has been condemned and placarded as provided in this article
shall again be occupied until written approval is obtained from the village
council.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 6(4), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-42. Removal of placard
Anyone removing or destroying any placard placed pursuant to section 10-40
without authority shall be deemed in violation of this article and subject to
punishment as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 6(5), 6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-43. Order of council to demolish.
Any building or structure previously determined to be a dangerous building, if
not repaired or rehabilitated within three months, may be ordered demolished by
the village council without further notice to the owner or occupant.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 7(1.1),6-5-1978)
Sec. 10-44. Expenses.
All expenses incurred in the removal and demolition of an unsafe building may
be charged upon the lot or premises upon which the building was situated and
collected as a special assessment; or such expenses may be recovered by the
village in a legal action against the owner or occupant of the lot or premises.
(Ord. No. 64, art. 7(1.2), 6-5-1978)
***** Chapters 11-13
RESERVED *****
Chapters 11-13
RESERVED
Chapter 14
** Sec. 14-1. Determination of good moral character. **
Cross references-Cable communications,
ch. 18; community development,
ch. 26; peddlers and solicitors,
ch. 46; industrial, commercial and multiple-family garbage and rubbish
collection, §
54-36; placement of vehicles upon real property in business, commercial or
industrial zones, §
66-2; utilities,
ch 70.
Sec. 14-1. Determination ofgood moral character.
   (a)   Determination of good moral character for purpose of issuance or
denial of licenses or permits shall be made in accordance with this section.
Such determinations shall be made within a reasonable time after submission of
the license or permit application.
   (b)   The term "good moral character" shall be construed to mean the
propensity on the part of the person to serve the public in the village in a
fair, honest and open manner.
   (c)   A judgment of guilt in a criminal prosecution or a judgment in a civil
action shall not be used, in and of itself, as proof of a person's lack of good
moral character. It may be used as evidence in the determination, and when so
used the person shall be notified and shall be permitted to rebut the evidence
by showing that at the current time he has the ability to and is likely to
serve the public in a fair, honest and open manner, that he is rehabilitated,
or that the substance of the former offense is not reasonably related to the
occupation or profession for which he seeks to be licensed.
   (d)   The following criminal records shall not be used, examined or
requested by the city in a determination of good moral character:
      (1)   Records of an arrest not followed by a conviction.
      (2)   Records of a conviction that has been reversed or vacated,
including the arrest records relevant to that conviction.
      (3)   Records of an arrest or conviction for a misdemeanor or a felony
unrelated to the person's likelihood to serve the public in a fair, honest and
open manner.
      (4)   Records of an arrest or conviction for a misdemeanor for the
conviction of which a person may not be incarcerated in a jailer prison.
   (e)   This section does not prevent the use in determining good moral
character, of public records not related to arrest or prosecution, or of any
other source of unbiased and accurate information.
   (f)   When a person is found to be unqualified for a license because of a
lack of good moral character, or similar criteria, the person shall be
furnished by the village clerk with a statement to this effect. The statement
shall contain a complete record of the evidence upon which the determination
was based. The person shall be entitled, as of right, to a rehearing on the
issue before the person who made the character determination if he has relevant
evidence not previously considered regarding his qualifications.
*State law reference-Determination of good moral character, MCL 338.41 et seq.,
MSA 18.1208(1) et seq.
Village of Lexington
Sanilac County, Michigan
Chapter 14, Article 1 Section 14-1-14-4
AN ORDINANCE TO IMPOSE A MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, LICENSES OR
APPROVALS FOR THE SALE OR DISPENSATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF ANY BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL OR RETAIL OPERATION, COMPASSION
CENTER, DISPENSARY, COLLECTIVE, COOPERATIVE, CLINIC OR ANY SIMILAR USE, WHERE
THE PURPOSE IS THE DISPENSATION OF MEDICAL MARUUANA, WITHIN THE VILLAGE OF
LEXINGTON.
THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON ORDAINS:
SECTION 1. FINDINGS:
In accordance with Act No. 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as amended, and Act
No. 246 of the Public Acts of 1945, as amended, the Village of Lexington has
determined that:
1.    On November 8, 2008, Michigan Proposal 08-1 "A Legislative Initiative to
Permit the Use and Cultivation of Marijuana for Specified Medical Conditions"
passed in the State of Michigan. On December 4, 2008 the Michigan Medical
Marijuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008, MCL 333.26423(d) (the "Act") became
effective.
2.    It is within the rights of the Village of Lexington to establish
reasonable regulations to control the sale and dispensation of medical
marijuana. The Village desires to ascertain the best and safest path to
compliance with the Act.
3.    The provisions within the Code of Ordinances and Zoning Ordinance have
not been amended to include business licensing requirements and land use
regulations for the Act.
4.   The Act is silent on any form of a commercial or retail use for the
purpose of dispensing medical marijuana and on where a registered patient or
registered caregiver can obtain medical marijuana. Allowing these types of uses
prior to amending the Zoning Ordinance is contrary to the Village of Lexington
Master Plan and Zoning Ordinance.
5.    Imposing a moratorium, on a limited temporary basis, is reasonable and
necessary in ord\'!r to allow time for the review and adoption of the necessary
amendments to the Code of Ordinances and Zoning Ordinance.
SECTION 2. MORATORIUM
1.    A moratorium shall be imposed upon the issuance of permits, licenses or
approvals for the sale or dispensation of medical marijuana and on the
establishment of any business, commercial or retail operation, compassion
center, dispensary, collective, cooperative, clinic or any similar use, where
the purpose is for the dispensation of medical marijuana, within the Village of
Lexington for twelve (12) months from the effective date of this ordinance, or
until an amendment of the Code of Ordinances, Zoning Ordinance and any other
applicable codes, whichever occurs first.
2.    The Village of Lexington Council and Planning Commission during the
moratorium period shall investigate potential modifications to the Code of
Ordinances and Zoning Ordinance that may establish reasonable regulations to
control the sale and dispensation of medical marijuana in order to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare, and comply with the Act.
3.    The Village of Lexington may prior to the expiration of the twelve (12)
month moratorium extend the moratorium for an additional six (6) months to
allow sufficient time to complete amendments to the ordinances.
4.    This moratorium shall not apply to any registered patient and/or
registered primary caregiver who is in compliance with the Act. This moratorium
applies to all uses not described, defined or in any other form provided for in
the Act.
SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY
The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any
clause, sentence, paragraph, rule, regulation, section or subsection is
declared void or inoperable for any reason by any Court, it shall not affect
any other part or portion thereof, other than the part declared void or
inoperable.
SECTION 4. REPEAL
All Ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
***** Chapters 15-17
RESERVED *****
Chapters 15-17 RESERVED
Chapter 18
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS*
Article I. In General
Secs.
18-1-18-30. Reserved.
Article II. Customer Service Standards
Sec.
18-31. Definitions.
Sec.
18-32. Exceptions.
Sec.
18-33. Listed.
Sec.
18-34. Enforcement.
Cross references-Businesses,
ch. 14; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62; utilities,
ch 70.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Sees. 18-1-18-30. ReseNed.
**** ARTICLE II. CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS ****
Sec. 18-31. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Normal business hours means 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday to Saturday.
Normal operating conditions means those service conditions that are within the
control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the cable operator include but are not limited to natural disasters,
civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or
unusual weather conditions. Those conditions that are ordinarily within the
control of the cable operator include but are not limited to special
promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal
demand periods and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
SeNice interruption means the loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels. (Ord. No. 110, § 1, 9-14-1993) Cross reference-Definitions generally,
§
1-2.
Sec. 18-32. Exceptions.
Nothing in this article is intended to prevent or prohibit the following:
   (1)   The village and a cable operator from agreeing to customer service
requirements that exceed the standards set forth in this article;
   (2)   The village from enforcing through the end ofthe franchise term
preexisting customer service requirements that exceed the standards set forth
in this article and are contained in franchise agreements;
   (3)   The village from enacting or enforcing any consumer protection law; or
   (4)   The establishment or enforcement of any ordinance or regulation
concerning customer service that imposes customer service requirements that
exceed or address matters not addressed by the standards set forth in this
article. (Ord. No. 110, § 2, 9-14-1993)
Sec. 18-33. Listed.
   (a)   A cable operator is subject to the customer service standards listed
in this section, certified quarterly by the cable operator
   (b)   The cable operator will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call
telephone access line that will be available to subscribers 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. Trained company representatives shall be available to
respond to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
   (c)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by a
service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained company representative on the next business day.
   (d)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a company
representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when the
connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time shall
not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90 percent of
the time under normal operating conditions measured on a quarterly basis.
   (e)   Under normal operating conditions, the customers may receive a busy
signal less than three percent of the time, measured on a quarterly basis.
   (f)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located. A customer
service center and bill payment location shall be in the village.
   (g)   Under normal operating conditions, each of the following standards
will be met no less than 95 percent of the time, measured on a quarterly basis:
      (1)   Standard installations will be performed seven business days after
an order has been placed. Standard installations are those that are located not
more than 125 feet from the existing distribution system.
      (2)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator, a cable
operator shall begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no event
later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The cable operator
must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business day
after notification ofthe service problem.
      (3)   The appointment window for installations, service calls and other
installation activities will be either a specific time or, at maximum, a four-
hour block during normal business hours. The operator may schedule service
calls and other installation activities outside of normal business hours for
the express convenience of the customer.
      (4)   A cable operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer
after the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled
appointment.
      (S)   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted, the appointment rescheduled, as necessary, at a
time convenient for the customer.
   (h)   The cable operator shall provide written information on each of the
following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to
all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
      (1)   Products and services offered;
      (2)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
      (3)   Installation and service maintenance policies;
      (4)   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
      (S)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
      (6)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the cable operator and of the village business manager.
   (i)   Bills shall be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be fully
itemized with itemizations, including but not limited to basic and premium
service charges and equipment charges; Bills shall clearly delineate all
activity during the billing period, including operational charges, rebates and
credits. In case of a billing dispute, a cable operator must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
   (j)   Refund checks shall be issued promptly, but not later than the:
      (1)   Customer's next billing cycle following the resolution of the
request or 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
      (2)   Return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator ifservice is
terminated.
   (k)   Credits will be issued no later than the customer's next billing cycle
following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(Ord. No. 110, § 3, 9-14-1993)
Sec. 18-34. Enforcement,
   (a)   A cable operator shall file with the village clerk a notarized
statement certifying compliance with this article on a quarterly basis. A cable
operator filing a false certificate shall pay liquidated damages to the village
of $1,000.00.
   (b)   An officer or employee signing a false certificate shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   (c)   Failing to file a certificate shall subject a cable operator to pay
liquidated damages to the village of $100.00 per day.
   (d)   A cable operator in noncompliance shall on a quarterly basis file a
statement outlining areas of noncompliance along with a remedial plan subject
to review and issuance of a compliance order by the village. Failing to file a
noncompliance statement and remedial plan shall subject a cable operator to pay
liquidated damages of $100.00 per day.
(Ord. No. 110, § 4, 9-14-1993)
***** Chapters 19-21
RESERVED *****
Chapters 19-21 RESERVED
Chapter 22
CEMETERIES
Article I. In General
Secs.
22-1--22-30. Reserved.
Article II. Lexington Municipal Cemetery
Sec.
22-31.   Board of trustees established.
Sec.
22-32.   Existing ordinances, regulations and orders ratified.
See.
22-33.    Compliance with rules.
*Cross reference-Streets, sidewalks other public places
ch. 62.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Secs. 22.1-22-30. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II. LEXINGTON MUNICIPAL CEMETERY ****
Sec. 22-31. Board of trustees established.
A board of cemetery trustees is established pursuant to section 57 of Public
Act No.3 of 1885 (MCL 67.57, MSA 5.1341). Such board has the powers provided by
statute.
Sec. 22-32. Existing ordinances regulations and orders ratified.
All ordinances, regulations and orders pertaining to conduct and operation of
the municipal cemetery in effect immediately prior to the adoption of this Code
are ratified and confirmed.
Sec. 22-33. Compliance with rules,
It is unlawful to violate any regulations or orders promulgated by the board of
cemetery trustees pertaining to conduct or operation of the municipal cemetery.
State law reference-Authority to punish violations of regulations and orders of
board of cemetery trustees, MCL 67.62, MSA 5.1346.
THE GENERAL LAW VILLAGE ACT (EXCERPT)
Act 3 of 1895
Sec. 67.57 Board of cemetery trustees; appointment; terms; removal,.
compensation.
Sec. 57.
   (1)   Whenever any village owns, purchases, or otherwise acquires any
cemetery or cemetery grounds, the council may appoint a board of cemetery
trustees. The council may provide that the powers conferred upon a board of
cemetery trustees by this act shall be exercised by the department of public
works director, or the village manager, if any.
   (2)   A board of cemetery trustees shall consist of 3 individuals. The
trustees shall hold their office for the term of 3 years, except that at the
first appointment, I shall be appointed for 1 year, I for 2 years, and I for
the term of 3 years from the second Monday in April of the year when appointed
. One trustee shall be appointed annually thereafter. The council may remove
any trustee so appointed for inattention to his or her duties, want of proper
judgment or skill in or for the proper discharge of his or her duties, or other
good cause. The board shall serve without compensation.
History:1895, Act 3, lmd. Efr. Feb. 19, 1895;-CL 1897, 2825;-CL 19 15, 2696;-CL
1929, 1605;-CL 1948, 67.57;-Am. 1998, Act 255,'lmd, Err. July 13, 1998.
Rendered Thursday, August 09, 2007 Page 1 Michigan Complted Laws Complete
Through PA 49 of 2007
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www /egis/ature.mi.gov
***** Chapters 23-25
RESERVED *****
Chapters 23-25 RESERVED
Chapter 26
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT*
Article I. In General
Secs.
26-1-26-30.   Reserved.
Article II. Downtown Development Authority
Sec.
26-31.   Establishment; duties.
Sec.
26-32.   Boundaries of district.
Sec.
26-33.   Residential property defined; excluded; boundary expansion prohibited.
Sec.
26-34.   Board membership..
Sec.
26-35.   Officers and meetings.
Sec.
26-36.   Sources of revenue; permitted expenditures.
Sec.
26-37.   Authority subject to state law.
Sec.
26-38.   Development plan and tax increment plan.
*Cross references-Buildings and building regulations,
ch. 10; businesses,
ch. 14; planning,
ch. 50; special assessments,
ch. 58; streets, sidewalks other public places,
ch. 62; utilities,
ch 70.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Secs.26-1-26-30. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II. DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY* ****
Sec. 26-31. Establishment; duties.
Pursuant to Public Act No. 197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1651 et seq., MSA 5.3010(1) et
seq.), the village establishes a downtown development authority, which shall be
established and regulated pursuant to such act. The authority shall analyze the
impact of economic changes and growth in the downtown district and develop
plans in coordination with the village's planning commission to promote orderly
economic growth in the downtown development district. With the advice and
consent of the village council, the authority shall implement a development
plan in the downtown district as necessary to achieve the purposes of such act
and in accordance with the powers granted by such act.
(Ord. No. 88, § 1, 4-14-1986)
*State law reference-Establishment of downtown development authority
authorized, MCL 125.1652, MSA 5.3010(2).
Sec. 26-32. Boundaries of the district.
The boundary of the downtown district within which the downtown development
authority shall exercise its powers is amended as follows:
   Land within the street right of ways in the SW ¼ of Section 25 and the NE ¼
of Section 36, T10N-R16E and the SW¼ of Section 30 and the NW¼ of Section 31,
T10N-R17E being:
   All land in Main St. right of way from the centerline of Wayne St. south to
the centerline of Lake St.
   All land in Huron Avenue right of way from the east right of way line of
Vulcan St. to Lake Huron.
   All land in S ½ of Wayne St. right of way from the east right of way line of
Main St. (M- 25) east 305 feet.
   All land in Simons St. right of way from 264 feet west of the west right of
way line of main St. (M-25) east to Lake Huron.
   All land in Boynton St. right of way from the east line of Vulcan St. east
to Lake Huron.
   All land in the N ½ of lake St. right of way from a point 396 feet west of
the west right of way line of Main St (M-25 Hwy) east to a point 192 feet east
of the east right of way line of Main St. (M-25 Hwy.).
   All land in Washington St. right of way from the North right of way line of
Simons St. to the south right of way line of Boynton St.
That part of the SE ¼ of Section 25, T10N-R16E, being:
   Lots 14 thru 16 and 18 thru 21 and 48 thru 51 of Anson Simons Plat.
   Land com 577.5 feet north and 33 feet west of southeast corner of Section
25, T10N- R16E, thence West 132 feet north 16.5 feet, west 66 feet, north 165
feet, east 198 feet to the west right of way line of Main St. (M-25 Hwy.),
thence south 181.5 feet to Point of Beginning.
That part of SW¼ of Section 30, T10N-R17E, being:
   Lots 1 thru 25 and lots 37 thru 40 of Plat of Monrovia.
   Land described as commencing at southwest corner of lot 39, Plat of
Monrovia, east 134.8 feet to Point of Beginning thence east 203.08 feet to
corner of break wall thence along outer edge of break wall as follows N 30° 50'
E 144.37 feet, S 79°51" E 66.6 feet, N 10°40' E 53.70 feet to north line of lot
40 west along north line of lot 40 125.79 feet, south along hwy. 23 feet, west
along hwy 169.70 feet S 21° 54' W 153.04 feet along shore to Point of Beginning
together with lake bottom land, if any, lying between and opposite above
described parcel and government lot 1.
   Land in alley between lots 13, 14, on the west and lots 37, 38, 39 and 40 on
the east of Plat of Monrovia.
   Lots 1, 2 and 15 of R.B. Hubbard & Co. addition to the Village of Lexington
Sec. 26-33 (b) (Residential properties)
This subsection is amended and restated as follows:
Residential properties within the downtown development district are subject to
the capture of revenues by the downtown development authority.
The balance of the ordinance shall remain unchanged and in full force and
effect.
Pursuant to P.A. 197 of Public Acts of 1975 a public hearing on the above
amendments to the Downtown Development Authority Ordinance was held on October
27, 2003.
Sec. 26-34. Board membership.
The affairs of the downtown development authority shall be governed by a board
consisting of the village president and eight additional members. (Ord. No. 88,
§ 3, 4 -14-1986)
State law reference-Downtown development authority governing board, MCL
125.1654, MSA 5.3010(4).
Sec. 26-3S Officers and meetings.
The board of the downtown development authority shall elect a chairman, vice-
chairman, treasurer and secretary. The board shall prepare bylaws to govern the
procedure of meetings and powers of its officers, which shall be submitted to
the village council for approval prior to their adoption by the board.
(Ord. No. 88, § 4, 4-14-1986)
Sec. 26-36. Sources of revenue; permitted expenditures.
The activities of the downtown development authority shall be financed from one
or more of the funding sources set out in section 11 of Public Act No. 197 of
1975 (MCL 125.1661, M5A 5.3010(11» and shall expend no moneys without prior
approval of village council. (Ord. No. 88, § 5, 4-14-1986)
Sec. 26-37. Authority subject to state law.
The downtown development authority shall be controlled and regulated strictly
by Public Act No. 197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1651 et seq., M5A 5.3010 et seq.). (Ord.
No. 88, § 6, 4-14-1986)
Sec. 26-38. Development plan and tax increment plan.
   (a)   Pursuant to Public Act No. 197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1651 et seq., MSA
5.3010(1) et seq.), the village adopts a development plan and tax increment
plan for the downtown development authority. Such plans are adopted by
reference, and such plans are available for inspection during regular business
hours at the village clerk's office.
   (b)   Such development plan and tax increment plan are adopted pursuant to
proper public notice and posting consistent with section 18 of Public Act No.
197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1668, MSA 5.3010(18)). After a public hearing on the
development plan and tax increment plan was held on November 10, 1986, pursuant
to section 19 of Public Act No. 197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1669, MSA 5.3010(19))and
at such hearing the village council determined that:
      (1)   The plan meets the requirements as set forth in section 17(2) of
Public Act No. 197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1667(2), MSA 5.3010(17), (2».
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purpose of Public Act No. 197 of 1975 (MCL 125.1651 et seq., MSA 5.3010 et
seq.).
      (4)   The development plan and tax increment plan are in reasonable
accord with the master plan of the village.
      (5)   Public services such as fire and police protection and utilities
are or will be adequate to service the project area.
Any amendment to the approved development plan and tax increment plan must be
submitted by the downtown development authority to the village council for
approval or rejection.
(Ord. No. 91, 11-10-1986)
Chapter 30
ELECTIONS*
Sec.
30-1. Initiatory, referenda or recall petitions; prohibitions.
*Cross references-Administration,
ch. 2; village council, §
2-31 et seq.
State law references-Michigan Election Law, MCL 168.1 et seq., MSA 6.1001 et
seq.; village elections, MCL 63.1 et seq., MSA S.1230 et seq.
Sec. 30-1. Initiatory, referendary or recall petitions; prohibitions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to affix another's signature or to swear to
any statement false in any material particular, or to induce any person not
qualified as an elector to sign any initiatory, referendary or recall petition;
or to take the oath of another to any such petition not knowing him to be the
identical person he represents himself to be or knowing that the petition or
any part of the petition is false or fraudulent in any material particular; or
to falsely represent that the petition is sponsored by others than the true
sponsors.
(Ord. No. 74, § 20.460, 9-13-1982)
*State law reference-Recall, MCL 168.951 et seq., MSA 6.1951 et seq.
AN ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR THE ELECTION DATE FOR THE OFFICES OF VILLAGE
PRESIDENT AND VILLAGE TRUSTEES PURSUANT TO THE ELECTION CONSOLIDATION LAWS (PA
286-300 OF2004) AND THE GENERAL VILLAGE ACT (PA 3 OF 1895)
The Village of Lexington, Sanilac County, Michigan ordains:
Section 30-2 Elected Village Offices.
The following village officers shall be elected: a president and six {'{'}6
{'}'} trustees. The president and trustees shall constitute the council.
Section 30-3 Village Regular Election Date.
Village elections shall be held at the September primary election held on the
first Tuesday after the second Monday in September in an odd year.
Section 30-4 Village President. Term of Office
The president shall be elected at the September primary election for a term of
four {'{'} 4) years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
Section 30-5 Village Trustees; Terms of Office; Staggered Terms
Three {'{'}3{'}'} Village trustees shall be elected at each biennial Village
election for a term of four {'{'} 4{'}'} years and until their successors are
elected and qualified.
Section 30-6 Extensions of Term of Office;
   1.   The election of the Village President shall be scheduled at the first
September primary held in an odd year after completion of the current term.
   2.   The election to office for the positions held by the three {'{'}3{'}'}
Trustees with terms expiring March of 2005 shall be scheduled at the next
September primary date in an odd year. The three {'{'}3{'}'} remaining Trustees
with terms expiring March of 2006 shall be elected at the September primary
date held in an odd year upon completion of the current term.
Section 30-7 Repeal
All ordinance and parts of ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 30-8 Severabilitv
Should a portion of this Ordinance be found invalid for any reason, such
holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity of the remaining
portions of this Ordinance.
***** Chapters 31-33
RESERVED. *****
Chapters 31-33 RESERVED.
Chapter 34
ENVIRONMENT
Article I. In General
Section
34-1-34-17   Trees
Section 34-18-34-30   Reserved
Article II. Noise
Section
34-31   Enforcement
Section
34-32   Declaration of Policy
Section
34-33   Unlawful to Make Noise
Section
34-34   Acts Violating Article
Section
34-35-34-65   Reserved
Article III, Nuisances
Section
34-66   Listed :
Section
34-67   Right of Entry
Section
34-68   Rules and Regulations
Section
34-69   Unlawful to Cause Nuisance
Section
34-70   Village Business Manager to Correct Conditions or Condemn
Section
34-71   Unlawful to Occupy Condemned Premises
Section
34-72   Unlawful to Remove Condemnation Sign
Section
34-73   Owners and Occupants Responsible for Premises Being Kept Clean
Section
34-74   Owner to Keep Dwelling in Habitable Condition
Section
34-75   Vacant Commercial Buildings; Duty to Maintain
Section
34-76   Weeds, Solid Waste and Similar Items
Section
34-77   Notice to Remedy Conditions
Section
34-78   Remedying Condition at Expense of Property Owner
Section
34-79   Abatement of Nuisance
Sections
34-80-34-105   Reserved
Article IV, Burning
Section
34-106   Definitions
Section
34-107-34-112   Repealed and Held in Reserve
Section
34-113   Violation Penalty
Section
34-114   General Prohibition on Opening Burning
Section
34-115   Approved Burning/No Burning
Section
34-116    Approved Burning/Burning Permit Required
Section
34-117   Burning of Yard Debris
Section
34-118   Prohibited Burning
Section
34-119   Commercial Burning
Section
34-1.01-34-6.04
Cross References-Animals,
ch. 6 buildings and building regulations,
ch. 10 dangerous buildings §
10-31 et seq.; parks and recreation,
ch, 42 planning,
ch 50 solid waste, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch.62; utilities,
ch.70
State Law References -Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, MCL
324.101 et seq., MSA 13A. 101 et seq.; general authority to adopt ordinances
for safety and general welfare, MCL 67.l(z), MSA 5.1285, (z)
Chapter 34, Article I Section 34-1-34-17
ENVIRONMENT
Sec. 34-1 DEFINmONS:
   (1)   Street trees. "Street trees" are herein defined as trees, shrubs,
bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on
either side of all streets, avenues, or rights- of- way within the Village.
   (2)   Park trees. "Park trees" are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes
and all other woody vegetation in public parks, on public property, and on all
areas owned by the Village or to which the public has free access as a park.
   (3)   Large trees: "Large trees" are defined as those obtaining a height of
fifty (50) feet or more.
   (4)   Medium trees. "Medium trees" are defined as those obtaining a height
of more than twenty- five (25) feet but less than fifty (50) feet.
   (5)   Small trees: "Small trees" are defined as those obtaining a height of
less than twenty-five (25) feet.
Sec. 34-2 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A VILLAGE TREE BOARD
There is hereby established a village tree board for the Village of Lexington.
The Village of Lexington Environmental Committee shall serve as the village
tree board. Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
Sec. 34-3 DUTIES AND RESPONSBILmES
It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate counsel,
develop, update and recommend to Village Council a plan for the care,
preservation, pruning planting, replanting removal or disposition of street
trees and park trees.
The board, when requested by the Village Council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its duties and responsibilities.
Sec, 34-4 STREET TREES SPECIES TO BE PLANTED
The species set forth in this section shall constitute the official street tree
species for Lexington. No species other than those included in this section may
be planted as street trees without approval of the Village Tree Board.
Sec, 34-5 STREET TREES SPECIES TO BE PLANTED
A listing-of appropriate trees allowed as Village street trees will be reviewed
and provided yearly by the Village Tree Board. The Village Tree Board will also
be able to utilize their own good discretion in the allowance of trees placed
on Village properties. No person shall plant a street tree without the approval
of the Village Tree Board.
Sec. 34-6. PARK TREES SPECIES TO BE PLANTED
A listing of appropriate trees allowed as Village streets will be reviewed and
provided yearly by the Village Tree Board. The Village Tree Board will also be
able to utilize their own good discretion in the allowance of trees placed on
Village properties. No person shall plant a street tree without the approval of
the Village Tree Board.
Sec. 34-7 SPACING
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three (3) size
classes in Section 1 and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following: Small trees, thirty (30) feet (9.lm); medium trees, forty (40) feet
(12.2m); large trees, fifty (50) feet (16.20m), except as approved in writing
by the Village Tree Board.
Sec. 34-8 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be
in accordance with the three (3) size classes defined in Section 1 and no trees
may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: Small trees
two (2) feet; medium trees, three (3) feet, and large trees, five (5) feet.
The only exception to this will be when so authorized by the Village Council
during Village streetscape projects which benefit the entire community. Then
some discretion will be allowed, but only under an Urban Forester or Landscape
Architect's approval.
Sec. 34-9 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS
No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty-five (35) feet to any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No
street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet to any fireplug. Again
certain discretion will be allowed when so authorized by the Village Council.
Sec, 34-10 UTILITIES -STREET TREES
No street trees other than those defined as small trees in Section 1 of this
ordinance may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within ten (10) lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
Sec. 34-11 TREE TOPPING
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity (except those hired by Detroit
Edison) to top any street tree or park tree without the written consent of the
Village Tree Board and approval of the Village Council. Topping is defined as
the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three (3) inches in
diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from the provisions of this
section by a determination of the Village Tree Board.
Sec.34-12 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street right-of-way within the Village
shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so
that there shall be a clear space of either (8) feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. The Village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light, or interferes with the visibility of any traffic control
device or sign or impacts pedestrian travel or snow removal.
Sec. 34-13 REMOVAL OF STUMPS
All stumps of street trees and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the grounds so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
Sec. 34-14 RECOVERY OF VALUE OF LOST STREET TREES OR PARK TREES
   (1)   Whenever the Village Tree Board shall determine that any street tree
or park tree has been impaired, damaged or broken in a manner which will cause
immediate or future removal of the tree and that such removal is deemed
premature and untimely based on the condition, vigor, location, kind and age of
the tree and the Board shall have knowledge of the person causing said damage,
then the Board shall recommend to the council that the responsible person shall
be assessed the value of the tree as determined by the use of the Michigan
Forestry and Parks Association Shade Tree Evaluation Chat, or, at the election
of the Board, by appraisal.
   (2)   the Village Tree Board shall determine that any street tree or park
tree has been severed, destroyed or removed, and that such severing,
destruction or removal is deemed premature and untimely based on the condition,
vigor, location, kind and age of the tree, and the Board shall have knowledge
of the person causing said damage, then the Board shall recommend to the
council that the responsible person shall be assessed the value of the tree as
determined by use of the Michigan Forestry and Parks Association Shade Tree
Evaluation Chart, or, at the election of the Board, by appraisal.
   (3)   This section shall not be constructed in such a way that the value
received by the Village shall be less than the actual cost of the removal of
the trees and replacement with a tree determined comparable by the Village Tree
Board, such replacement tree to be not less than three (3) inches in diameter
measured at the height of six (6) inches above ground. The village Tree Board
shall not be restricted in its choice as to the replacement planting site.
   (4)   It ihall be the duty of the'Police Department, having knowledge of any
such damage or destruction to street trees or park trees and having knowledge
of the person or persons causing said damage to immediately report this to the
Village Manager,
   (5)   It shall be the duty of the Village Tree Board to notify the Village
Council of any damage to street trees or park trees for which recovery should
be sought under the provisions of this section.
Sec, 34-15 APPEAL TO VILLAGE COUNCIL
A person may appeal any ruling or order of the Village Tree Board to the
Village Council, who shall hear the matter and affirm, reverse or amend the
decision of the Village Tree Board.
Sec, 34-16 PENALTY
Any person who violates this ordinance shall be responsible for a Grade B
municipal civil infraction and subject to the fines as determined by the
Village of Lexington Council. Any such fine shall be separate from the recovery
of value provided in this section. The maximum amount of the fine herein
provided shall in no way limit the amount of the value which may be recovered
under the provisions of this section.
Sec. 34-17 SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,N phrase or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holdings shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
** Sees. 34-1-34-30. Reserved. **
**** ARTICLE II. NOISE ****
Sec. 34-31. Enforcement.
This article shall be enforced by the village business manager and his
designees. (Ord. No. 76, § 1, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-32. Declaration of policy.
It is determined and declared that the making, creating or maintaining of loud,
unnecessary, unnatural or unusual noises, which are prolonged or sustained in
duration, by reason of the hour of the day or night, place or use, impair and
are a detriment to the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and
enjoyment to the residents of the village and is declared to be a nuisance; and
it is determined and declared to be necessary and in the public interest for
the prohibitions and provisions as set forth in this article to be enacted, all
of which are in pursuance and for the purpose of securing and promoting the
public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and enjoyment and for the
peace and quiet of the residents of the village. (Ord. No. 76, § 1, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-33. Unlawful to make noise.
It is declared to be unlawful for any person to make, create or continue or
cc1use to be made, created or continued any loud unnecessary, unnatural or
unusual noise that annoys, disturbs, injures, endangers or impairs the comfort,
repose, health, peace, convenience, safety, welfare or enjoyment of the
residents of the neighborhood in which the noise originates.
(Ord. No. 76, § 2, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-34. Acts violating article.
The following acts among others are declared to be loud, disturbing, annoying,
injurious and unnecessary noises and are in violation of this article; but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (1)   Radios, phonographs, loudspeakers and televisions. The playing, using
or operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving
set, phonograph, loudspeaker, television or musical instrument in such manner
as to cause unnecessary or objectionable noise penetrating more than a
reasonable distance from the room, building, structure, place or vehicle from
which the noise emanates shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (2)   Yelling, shouting, loud talking. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, singing or loud talking on the public streets or places or on
private property as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, repose, welfare or
enjoyment of persons in any office, dwelling, hotel or other type of residence
or any persons in the vicinity.
   (3)   Animals. The keeping of any animal that, by causing frequent or long-
continued noises, shall disturb the quiet, comfort, repose, welfare or
enjoyment of any persons in the vicinity.
   (4)   Whistles. The blowing of any locomotive whistles or whistles attached
to any stationary boiler or air compressor of any kind or of any sirens except
to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger, or upon the request of proper village authorities.
   (5)   Exhaust and motor idling.
      a.   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises from the engine, or the permitting of the motors in motor
vehicles to idle in the warming up process or the unnecessary racing of motors,
particularly the idling or racing of truck motors, whether diesel or gasoline
powers, either on the public street, public ways or public places or on private
property. The operation of any such motor vehicle or machine between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following morning in such a manner as to cause
unnecessary or objectionable noise penetrating more than a reasonable distance
from the room, building, structure, vehicle or place from which the noise
emanates, whether on public property or on private property shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      b.   All internal combustion engines must be equipped with an adequate
muffling device to eliminate effectively all unnecessary or excessive exhaust
noise, and it shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle equipped with a
muffler from which one or more baffles have been removed. Further, prolonged
idling or operating or excessive racing of any type of engine, particularly
trucks, operating at any location, either on public or private property, may
not be done when such operation causes unnecessary or excessive noise. It shall
be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle at any time on the streets of the
village with the so-called cut-out open.
   (6)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any motor vehicle, motorcycle or
other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud
and unnecessary grating, grinding, pounding, rattling or other disturbing
noises.
   (7)   Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of loud and excessive
noise in connection with loading and unloading of any vehicle or the opening or
destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following morning.
   (8)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. each weekday that is attended by
loud, continuous or unusual noises penetrating more than a reasonable distance
outside the property lines of the property from which the noise originates
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only with a permit from the village business manager or his designee,
which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while
the emergency continues, which permit may be renewed for periods of three days
or less while the emergency continues. If the village business manager or his
designee should determine that the public health, safety, quiet, repose,
welfare or convenience of the residents of the village will not be impaired by
the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the
excavation of streets, highways or public places between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any weekday, and if he shall further determine that loss
would otherwise result to any party in interest, he may grant permission for
such work to be done between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following morning upon application being made at the time the permit for the
work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
   (9)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while such buildings are being used, or adjacent to any hospital, that
unreasonably interferes with the operation and use of such institution or
buildings or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in such hospitals,
provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating the
location of such school, institution of learning, church, court or hospital.
   (10)   Pile drivers, hammers, automatic screw machine, compressed air pumps.
The operation between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
morning of any type of noisy machine such as a pile driver, steam or power
shovel, drop forge, pneumatic hammer or chisel or riveting machine, electric
drill, drill press, punch press, steam or electric hoist, automatic screw
machine, compressed air engine, air compressor, power saw or other appliance,
the use of which is attended by loud, continuous or unusual noises shall be
mulled so as not to become objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency
or shrillness. Noise as measured at the street or property line may not exceed
60 decibels; however, in the event of an emergency that affects the public
health or safety, the village business manager or his designee or the council
may issue a special permit for a limited time only for the use of any such
equipment or appliances as may be necessary.
   (11)   Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan
unless the noise from such blower and/or fan is mulled sufficiently to deaden
such noise and not cause unnecessary or objectionable noise penetrating more
than a reasonable distance from the nearest point on the property, either
public or private, where such noise is created.
   (12)   Sound trucks and sound amplifying equipment.
      a.   The term "sound trucks and sound amplifying equipment" means any
machine or device for the amplification of the human voice, music or any other
sound. It shall not be construed as including standard automobile radios when
used and heard only by occupants of the vehicle in which installed, or warning
devices on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on
other vehicles used only for traffic safety purposes. Sound trucks and sound
amplifying equipment with qualifications as described shall be prohibited at
all times.
      b.   The village council, by a majority vote of the members present, may,
for good cause shown, waive the prohibition provision of this section and grant
a permit to operate sound trucks and sound amplifying equipment under such
terms and conditions as they may prescribe when, in their opinion, the granting
of such permit will not be disturbing, annoying or injurious.
(Ord. No. 76, § 3, 9-13-1982; Ord. of 9- 10-1990)
Secs. 34-35-34-65. Reserved
**** ARTICLE III. NUISANCES* ****
*State law references-Authority to abate nuisances, MCL 67.1(c), MSA 5.1285,
(c); nuisance abatement, MCL 600.2940, MSA 27A.2940; public nuisances, MCL
600.3801 et seq., MSA 278.3801 et seq.
Sec. 34-66. Listed
Each of the following listed conditions and circumstances is declared to be a
nuisance within the meaning of this article; however this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
   (1)   Whatever is dangerous or injurious to human life, health, habitation
or comfort.
   (2)   Whatever causes or has a tendency to cause the air, food, water or
other drink in any place or manner in the village to be injurious to or to
endanger the health, safety, welfare or comfort of any person or of the public.
   (3)   Whatever building, erection, structure, cellar is overcrowded or not
provided with adequate means of ingress or egress or for the disposal of human
excreta, or for obtaining a reasonable necessary amount of clean water for use
on the premises, or is unfit for human habitation, or is not sufficiently
supported, ventilated, drained, deaned or lighted.
   (4)   Any building, structure or premises not maintained according to the
ordinances of the village, or any building, structure or premises maintained in
a manner dangerous to human life, health or habitation, or maintained in a
manner that affords insufficient safety to the public or any person.
   (5)   Any and all conditions, premises, buildings or structures that harbor
or are conducive to the harboring or breeding of insects, vermin, rats or other
rodents.
   (6)   All ponds of stagnant water.
   (7)   All cellars and foundations of and excavations for houses, the bottoms
of which contain stagnant or putrid water.
   (8)   All dead and putrefied animals lying about the roadways, lanes,
streets, alleys, vacant lots or yards, or upon the surface of the ground or not
buried in the ground a sufficient depth.
   (9)   All methods of human excreta disposal, except toilets or water closets
properly maintained and connected with a sanitary sewer or septic tank or
privies that have been constructed and are being maintained in accordance with
Jaw and the provisions of this Code and are screened against flies and which
are maintained in compliance with health measures, or other disposal system
authorized by and maintained in accordance with the provisions of law and this
Code.
   (10)   All choked or clogged sewers and house drains.
   (11)   All unreasonable accumulations of garbage, ashes or refuse.
   (12)   All pigpens and stables, except those permitted under this article.
   (13)   All wells, cisterns and reservoirs from which water for drinking or
other domestic purposes may be obtained which are not constructed or maintained
in accordance with the provisions of the ordinances of the village relating to
plumbing, or of this article and show pollution.
(Ord. No. 75, § 35.310, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-67. Right of entry.
The village business manager or his designee shall have the right to enter
private property at any reasonable hour of the day or night for the purpose of
making a sanitary or health survey of the premises, obtaining a sample of water
used on the premises, or collecting other data and material pertaining to
public health, and enforcing the provisions of this article; and it shall be
unlawful for any person to resist or attempt to prevent the village business
manager or his designee from carrying out the purposes set forth in this
article; however, the village business manager or his designee shall have in
his possession and carry upon his person at all times while carrying out the
duties outlined in this section sufficient credentials identifying himself or
showing his official capacity or relationship to the village, which credentials
shall include a picture of the bearer and a brief description of his appearance
indicating his age, height, weight, race, complexion, color of hair and eyes
and sex, and which credentials shall be exhibited by the bearer on demand to
any person in charge of any premises which the village business manager or his
designee is about to enter.
(Ord. No. 75, § 35.302, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-68. Rules and regulations.
The village business manager or his designee is authorized to prepare such
reasonable rules and regulations which he deems necessary to carry out and
enforce the provisions of this article, subject to the approval of the mayor.
(Ord. No. 75, § 35.304, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-69. Unlawful to cause nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create, continue or maintain, or
aid in causing, creating, continuing or maintaining any nuisance within the
village. Any person responsible for violating the provisions of this article in
connection with a nuisance shall be liable for Grade B civil infraction
penalties. Each day that such nuisance occurs shall be a separate violation.
Such person shall also be liable for the reasonable expense of correcting the
conditions causing such nuisance. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.309, 9-13-1982; Ord. No.
99-4, § 4, 8-29-1999)
Sec. 34-70. Village business manager to correct conditions/ or condemn.
   (a)   The village business manager or his designee, if satisfied upon
examination that a building, tenement, room or cellar in the village occupied
as a dwelling place, or any other place where human beings reside, congregate,
work or have access to, has become, by reason of its being inhabited or used,
unclean or unfit for use as stated in this article, or is likely to become a
nuisance, or to be the cause of sickness to tenants, occupants or to those who
have access to the place, shall give notice in writing to such occupant or
owner of the premises or post in a conspicuous location upon the entrance of
such premises such notice condemning the place as being unfit for human
habitation or use, and shall demand the occupant or owner of the premises to
put such place in a sanitary and habitable condition within a reasonable time.
If the occupant or owner shall fail or refuse to comply with the terms of the
notice within the time specified, the village business manager or his designee
may declare the premises a nuisance and make and file a complaint against such
occupant or owner, or both, or he may cause condition of the premises to be
corrected at the owner's expense, or he may do whatever is reasonably necessary
to abate the nuisance at the expense of the owner.
   (b)   The reasonable cost and expense incurred by the village business
manager or his deslgnee in repairing the premises and abating such nuisance
shall be determined by the village business manager or his designee, and the
amount thus determined shall be charged to the owner of the premises involved
and shall be due and payable forthwith. A bill covering such amounts shall be
mailed by the village treasurer to the owner ofsuch premises at his last known
post office address, demanding payment of the amount due. If the amount is not
paid to the village on or before December 21 ofthe calendar year in which the
amount became due, the amount shall be assessed against the property as a
miscellaneous assessment in accordance with the provisions of the ordinances
ofthe village and shall become and be a lien on the property from the date such
assessment is created until full payment is made.
   (c)   If such premises are vacated, the village business manager or his
designee may, in his discretion, refuse to permit and shall condemn the use of
any premises for human habitation declared by him to be a nuisance; and such
premises shall not again be occupied as a human habitation until they are put
in a sanitary and habitable condition. The village business manager or his
designee shall have the power, and he is authorized and empowered to condemn
any premises declared by him to be a nuisance that are occupied as a residence
by any tenant or lessee and may order the premises vacated until repaired or
the conditions corrected to make them habitable. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.313, 9-13-
1982)
Sec. 34-71. Unlawful to occupy condemned premises.
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use such premises condemned by
the village business manager or his designee until put in a sanitary and
habitable condition in accordance with law and this Code and satisfactory to
the village business manager or his designee. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.314, 9-13-
1982)
Sec. 34-72. Unlawful to remove condemnation sign.
It shall be unlawful for any unautliorized person to remove any sign or notice
posted on any premises condemning the use ofthe premises as a human habitation
or declaring the premises to be a nuisance. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.315, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-73. Owners and occupants responsible for premises being kept clean.
All persons who own, manage, lease, rent or occupy any premises whatsoever
shall be equally responsible for keeping the premises in a clean and habitable
condition and shall take all necessary precautions to prevent any nuisance or
other condition detrimental to public health from arising on the premises, and
particularly to take all reasonable precautions to prevent rodents and vermin,
including rats, bedbugs and cockroaches from being attracted to or existing on
the premises. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.316, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-74. Owner to keep dwelling in habitable condition.
   (a)   Every building or portion of a building being used as a dwelling, home
or residence shall be kept by the owner or landlord in a clean, neat and
habitable condition in order to prevent the premises from becoming a nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any such owner or landlord to allow a dwelling to
become dilapidated or permit weeds or other vegetation to grow and trash,
rubbish or refuse to accumulate on the property to such an extent that a
nuisance is created that is injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the
occupants of the dwelling or of the inhabitants of the village.
   (b)   If the owner has leased or rented the premises to another person and
the duty to keep the premises in a proper condition rests upon such renter,
tenant or lessee, the obligation of this article shall fall upon such renter,
tenant or lessee. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.317, 9-13-1982)
Sec, 34-75. Vacant commercial buildings; duty to maintain.
The owner or other person legally responsible shall have the duty to maintain
any empty, unused or unrented commercial building in a neat, clean and
structurally sound manner to prevent the premises from becoming a nuisance;
such vacant buildings shall be kept securely locked at all times. It shall be
the owner's responsibility to keep the building free from all signs or posters
not specifically authorized by such owner. All authorized posters or signs, if
placed on the windows, must be on the inside. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.318, 9-13-
1982)
Sec. 34-76. Weeds, solid waste and similar items.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupier of any land in the
village to permit noxious weeds, overgrown lawns, in excess of eight inches,
dead grass, dead trees, brush, filth, garbage, trash, refuse, debris or any
items that could cause poisoning or irritation to human beings or tend to
decrease the value of neighboring property to accumulate or exist upon property
so owned or occupied.
   (b)   All lands in the village shall be made to fully comply with the
provisions of subsection (a) of this section on or before May 15, June 15, July
15, August 15 and September 15 of each year.
   (c)   In the event of the failure of any owner or occupier of any land in
the village to comply with subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the village
shall be authorized to take the necessary steps to cut, destroy and remove the
weeds, overgrown lawn, dead grass, dead trees, brush, filth, garbage, trash,
refuse or debris from the premises and take any other steps necessary to bring
the land in full compliance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section, and
to assess all costs incurred in so doing against the property, such assessment
to become a lien against the property and collected in the same manner that
other taxes are levied and collected.
   (d)   In addition to assessment advanced by the village for costs of
remediation under subsection (c) of this section, the owners and/or occupiers
of properties in violation of this section shall be liable for Grade A civil
infraction penalties. Each day of such violation shall be a separate violation
of this section. (Ord. of 8-9-1993, §§ 1-3; Ord No. 99-4, § 4, 8-29-1999; Ord.
No. 99-6, §§ 1-3, 9-2-1999)
Sec. 34-77. Notice to remedy conditions.
Upon the discove1y of prohibited conditions existing, as set out in this
article, the village business manager or his designee shall notify the owner of
the property of such condition and require that it be remedied within ten days.
Such notice may be given in person or by registered mail, addressed to the last
known address of the owner.
(Ord. No. 75, § 35.319, 9-13-1982)
Sec. 34-78. Remedying condition at expense of property owner.
Should the owner fail to remedy a nuisance condition after notice by the
village business manager or his designee, the village business manager or his
designee shall remedy the condition or abate the nuisance or cause the same to
be done by personnel of the village or outside personnel, if necessary. Upon
completion of such work, the village business manager or his designee shall
determine the reasonable cost and bill the owner. Upon failure of the owner to
remit to the village treasurer the amount of such charge within 30 days from
the date of such notice, the amount of the bill shall be certified to the
village council, who shall order such charges transferred to the miscellaneous
special assessment roll to become a lien upon the property, which lien may be
enforced in any manner allowable under the law. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.320, 9-13-
1982)
Sec. 34-79. Abatement of nuisance.
The village business manager or his designee shall have the authority and is
empowered at any time to order the complete abatement of any nuisance in the
village; and any powers conferred by this article upon him to make complaint
against an alleged violator shall not prevent such village business manager or
his designee from filing injunctive proceedings in the circuit court or
exercising any other available remedies to abate a nuisance he may deem
necessary, each and all such powers and remedies being cumulative and not
exclusive. (Ord. No. 75, § 35.321, 9-13-1982)
Secs. 34.80--34-105. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE IV. OPEN BURNING ****
Sec. 34-106. Definitions
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation of this section.
"Construction and demolition waste" means building waste materials, including
but not limited to waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted
wood, wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
"Commercial district" any district or area within the Village zoned to allow
business to participate in commercial activities, including areas with the
following zoning designations C-1, C-2, CBD.
"Open burning' means kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney. This Includes burning in a burn barrel, patio wood-burning
unit or other similar device.
"Patio wood-burning unit"means a chimney, patio warmer, or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
"Recreation fire" means the outdoor burning of logs, brush, and other similar
materials for the purpose of food preparation or recreation, recreation fires
may include campfires or bonfires.
"Refuse' means any waste material, including waste resulting from the
processing, handling, preparation, sale or consumption of food. Refuse does not
include tree or bush trimming debris, yard debris and/or lawn/grass clippings..
"Smudge fire' means the burning of wet combustibles which emits a dense smoke.
"Tree or bush trimming debris" means debris associated with trimming of trees
and/or bushes, but does not include yard debris or lawn/grass clippings.
"Village"means the Village of Lexington.
"Yard debris" means debris generally associated with cleaning and maintaining a
residential property, such as leaves, twigs and branches. Yard debris does not
include lawn/grass clippings.
Sec. 34-107. thru 34-112 are repealed and held in rese!Ve.
Sec. 34-113. Violation Penalty
   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this Article shall be
responsible for a civil infraction.
   (b)   If the fire department is summoned to or extinguishes a burn taking
place in violation of this Article, the Village shall impose a fire run fee
against the person or persons responsible for the violation equal to the amount
charged to townships as stated in their contracts.
Sec. 34-114. General Prohibition on Open Burning.
Open burning is prohibited in' the Village unless specifically permitted by
this Article.
Sec. 34-115. Approved Burning I No Burning Permit Required
The following types of open burning are approved within the Village and do not
require a permit:
   (a)   Recreation fires in residential districts which are not on the beach
and which:
      (1)   are in a container with a cover;
      (2)   are In a defined containment area;
      (3)   are contained within a fireplace or patio-wood burning unit; or
      (4)   are contained within a fire pit.
Recreation fires under this section shall not exceed an area of three feet by
three feet by three feet and must be attended at all times by an adult.
   (b)   Barbecuing grilling using charcoal, propane, or natural gas so long as
the fire is contained.
   (c)   With prior written approval from the Village Manager, employees of the
Department of Public Works, Lexington Municipal Mobile Home Park, or Fire
Department may conduct controlled burns.
Sec. 34-116. Approved Burning I Burning Permit Required
   (a)   The following types of open burning are permitted in residential or
commercial districts if a burning permit is obtained prior to the burning:
      (1)   Recreation fires on the beach. Lakefront property owners may obtain
a burning permit, valid for sixty days, to hold recreation fires on the beach.
         (i)   If a permit is obtained as provided herein, prior to starting
any recreation fire on the beach, Central Dispatch must be called and provide
authorization to burn for that particular day. If Central Dispatch does not
provide authorization for a particular day, recreation fires on the beach are
not permitted.
         (ii)   Recreation fires on the beach shall not exceed four feet in
height or four feet in diameter from any two opposing points.
         (iii)   All recreation fires on the beach must be attended by an adult
at all times.
      (2)   Burning of tree or bush trimming debris on lots with over 100 foot
widths and an area over 12,000 square feet.
         (i)   Such burning is permitted only in December.
         (ii)   Burning of tree or bush trimming debris is limited to a maximum
area of six feet in height by six feet in diameter from any two opposing
points.
         (iii)   All burning of tree or brush trimming debris must be attended
by an adult at all times.
   (b)   Any person who conducts or allows burning in violation of this section
is responsible for a Grade B Civil Infraction.
Sec, 34-117. Burning of Yard Debris
   (a)   Burning of yard debris is allowed to take place in December and only
after issuance of burning permit.
      (1)   Burning of yard debris under this section shall not exceed an area
of three feet by three feet by three feet and must be attended at all times by
an adult.
   (b)   If the Village, in its sole determination, has arranged for
satisfactory alternatives for leaf pick up, the Village Council may suspend
issuance of burning permits for the purpose of burning leaves.
Sec, 34-118.Prohibited Burning
The following open burning is prohibited in the Village:
   (a)   Burning of refuse, construction and demolition waste, and/or lawn/
grass clippings.
   (b)   Burning of any substance which causes dense smoke, emits foul or
obnoxious odors, or emits hazardous or toxic by-products.
   (c)   Burning in any area within 20 feet of a street or building, except
recreational and controlled defoliation fires conducted by the Department of
Public Works or Fire Department with the prior approval of the Village Manager.
   (d)   Smudge fires.
   (e)   Any burning within in the Village in violation of this section is a
Grade C civil infraction.
Sect. 34-119.Commercia/ Burning
   (a)   Open burning is prohibited in all commercial or industrial districts
unless within a State approved incinerator or unless otherwise specifically
provided for herein.
   (b)   Any burning in violation of this section is a Grade D civil
infraction.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE
AND
CONNECTION ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 34 ENVIRONMENT, SECTION 34 .120 TO END.
VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON, COUNTY OF SANILAC, MICHIGAN
ADOPTED BY THE LEXINGTON VILLAGE COUNCIL JANUARY 22, 2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sec
34-114 to end of Lexington Code of Ordinance
ARTICLE I GENERAL
SECTION
1.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TITLE
SECTION
1.02 FINDINGS
SECTION
1.03 PURPOSE
SECTION
1.04 APPLICABILITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION
1.05 DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE II PROH!BillONS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
SECTION
2.01 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
SECTION
2.02 PROHIBITED ILLICIT CONNECTIONS
SECTION
2.03 AUTHORIZED DISCHARGES
SECTION
2.04 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS IN DRAINAGEWAY
ARTICLE III INSPECTION, MONITORING, REPORTING, AND RECORD KEEPING
SECTION
3.01 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING
SECTION
3.02 STORM WATER MONITORING FACILITIES
SECTION
3.03 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES
SECTION
3.04 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT
ARTICLE IV ENFORCEMENT
SECTION
4.01 SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION
SECTION
4.02 FAILURE TO COMPLY; COMPLETION
SECTION
4.03 EMERGENCY MEASURES
SECTION
4.04 COST RECOVERY FOR DAMAGE TO STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM . 7 SECTION 4.05
COLLECTION OF COSTS; LIEN
SECTION
4.06 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
SECTION
4.07 APPEALS
SECTION
4.08 JUDICIAL RELIEF
SECTION
4.09 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES
ARTICLE V PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION
5.01 RESPONSIBILITY TO IMPLEMENT BMPs
ARTICLE VI OTHER MATTERS
SECTION
6.01 INTERPRETATION
SECTION
6.02 CATCH-LINE HEADINGS
SECTION
6.03 SEVERABILITY
SECTION
6.04 OTHER ORDINANCES
SECTION
6.05 EFFECTIVE DATE
AN ORDINANCE to regulate non-storm water discharges to the storm water drainage
system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law;
to establish methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
storm water drainage system in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process; to
provide for payment or reimbursement of costs and expenses incurred by the
Village of Lexington associated with noncompliance; to provide for the
inspection, sampling, and monitoring of storm water and other discharges; and
to provide penalties for violations of the ordinance.
The Village of Lexington ordains:
**** ARTICLE I GENERAL ****
SECTION 1.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TITLE
This Ordinance is adopted in accordance with the General law Village Act, as
amended, being Public Act 3 of 1895 as amended; the Drain Code of 1956, as
amended, being MCI 280.1, et seq.; the land Division Act, as amended, being MCI
560.1, et seq.; the Revenue Bond Act, as amended, being MCI 141.101, et seq.;
the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, as amended, being MCI
324.101, et seq.; Section 401(p) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(also known as the Clean Water Act), as amended, being 33 USC 1342(p) and 40
CFR Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124; and other applicable state and federal laws.
The Village of Lexington shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of the ordinance. Any powers granted, or duties imposed, upon the
Village may be delegated in writing by the Council of the Village to persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of, or in the employ of the Village.
SECTION 1.02 FINDINGS
The Village of Lexington finds' that:
   (1)   Illicit discharges contain pollutants that will Significantly degrade
the water bodies and water resources of the Village of Lexington, thus
threatening the health, safety, and welfare of the citizenry.
   (2)   Illicit discharges enter the storm water drainage system through
either direct connections (e.g., wastewater piping either mistakenly or
deliberately connected to the storm drains) or indirect connections (e.g.,
infiltration into the storm drain system or spills connected by drain inlets).
   (3)   Establishing the measures for controlling illicit discharges and
connections contained in this Ordinance and implementing the same will address
many of the deleterious effects of illicit discharges.
   (4)   Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this Ordinance is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare,
and is declared and deemed a nuisance.
SECTION 1,03 PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this Ordinance to establish minimum storm water management
requirements and controls to accomplish, among others, the following
objectives:
   (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm water drainage
system and water bodies by storm water discharges by any user.
   (2)   To prohibit illicit discharges and connections to the storm water
drainage system and Water bodies.
   (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this Ordinance.
   (4)   To provide appropriate remedies for failure to comply with this
Ordinance.
SECTION 1.04 APPLICABILITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
This Ordinance shall apply to all discharges entering the storm water drainage
system and waterbodies generated on any developed and undeveloped lands.
SECTION '1.05 DEFINIDONS
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, unless the context
in which they are used specifically indicates otherwise:
Authorized Enforcement Agency. The Village of Lexington, and/or any persons or
agencies designated to act as the Authorized Enforcement Agency by the Village
of Lexington.
Best Management Practices (BMPs): Structural devices or nonstructural practices
that are designed to prevent pollutants from entering storm water flows, to
direct the flow of storm water, or to treat polluted storm water flows. BMPs
may include, but shall not be limited to, those described in the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality Guidebook of BMPs for Michigan watersheds.
Equivalent practices and design criteria that accomplish the purposes of this
Ordinance (including, but not limited to, minimizing storm water runoff and
preventing the discharge of pollutants into storm water) shall be as determined
by the Village of Lexington Engineer.
Clean Water Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 USC Section 1251
et seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated there under.
Discharge: means the introduction (intentionally or unintentionally, and
directly or indirectly) of any liquid, substance, pollutant, or other material
into a storm water drainage system or water body.
Discharger: Any person who directly or indirectly discharges storm water from
any premises. Discharger also includes any employee, officer, director,
partner, contractor, or other person who participates in, or is legally or
factually responsible for, any act or omission that is, or results in, a
violation of this Ordinance.
Drain: Any and all conduits, facilities, measures, areas, and structures that
serve to convey, catch, hold, filter, store, and/or receive storm water or
groundwater, either on a temporary or permanent basis.
Drainage: The collection, conveyance, or discharge of groundwater and/or
surface water.
Drainage way: A drain, water body, or floodplain.
EPA: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Floodplain: The area, usually low lands, adjoining the channel of a river,
stream, or watercourse or lake, or other body of standing water, that has been
or may be covered by floodwater.
Hazardous Materials. Any solid, liquid, semisolid, or gaseous substance or
material that because of its quantity, quality, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute
to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible illness or
serious incapacitating but reversible illness, or may pose a substantial
present or potential hazard to human health or the environment if improperly
treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
Illicit Connection: Any method, means, or conduit for conveying an illicit
discharge into a water body or a storm water drainage system.
Illicit Discharge-. Any discharge to a water body or a storm water drainage
system that does not consist entirely of storm water, that is not authorized by
the terms of an NPDES permit, or that is not an authorized discharge as defined
by this Ordinance.
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES{'}'} Permit A permit
issued by the EPA or a state under authority delegated pursuant to the Clean
Water Act that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States.
Non-Storm Water Discharge: Any discharge to the storm water drainage system or
a water body that is not composed entirely of storm water.
Person: An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality, or any other legal entity.
Pollutant:The term pollutant includes, but is not limited to, the following:
any dredged spoil, solid waste, vehicle fluids, yard wastes, animal wastes,
agricultural waste products, sediment, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage,
sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological wastes, radioactive
materials, hazardous materials, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, commercial, and agricultural waste, or
any other contaminant or other substance defined as a pollutant under the Clean
Water Act. Pollutant also includes properties or characteristics of water,
including, but not limited to, pH, heat, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD,
toxicity, and odor.
Premises: Any building, structure, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, or
property, whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and
parking strips.
Property Owner: Any person having legal or equitable title to premises or any
person having or exercising care, custody, or control over any premises.
State of Michigan Water Quality Standards: All applicable state rules,
regulations, and laws pertaining to water quality, including the provisions of
Section 3106 of Part 31of 1994 PA 451, as amended.
Storm Water Drainage System: Storm sewers, conduits, curbs, gutters, catch
basins, drains, ditches, pumping devices, parking lots, roads, or other man-
made channels that are designed or used, singly or together in combination with
one another, for collecting or conveying storm water.
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan: A document, that describes the BMPs and
activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of
pollution or, contamination at a site and the actions to eliminqte or reduce
pollutant discharges to storm water, a storm water drainage system, and/or a
wa'ter body to the maximum extent practicable.
Storm Water Runoff (or Starn,Water): The runoff and drainage of precipitation
resulting from rainfall, snowmelt, or other natural event or process. Toxic
Material: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants that is or can potentially
be harmful to the public health or the environment, including, without
limitation, those listed in 40 CFR 401.15 as toxic under the provisions of the
Clean Water Act, or listed in the Critical Materials Register promulgated by
the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or as otherwise provided by
local, state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations.
Wastewater: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm water,
discharged from a premises. The term includes any water that has in any way
been used and degraded or physically or chemically altered.
Water Body. A river, lake, stream, creek, or other watercourse or wetlands.
**** ARTICLE II. PROHIBITIONS AND AUTHORIZATIONS ****
SECTION 2,01 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge, or cause to be discharged,
to a storm water drainage system or water body any substance or material,
including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards,
other than storm water or an authorized discharge. This prohibition includes
the commencement, conducting, or continuance of any illicit discharge by any
person to a storm water drainage system or water body.
   (2)   Any pe on discharging storm water shall effectively prevent pollutants
from being discharged with the storm water, except in accordance with BMPs.
   (3)   The Authorized Enforcement Agency is authorized to require dischargers
to implement pollution prevention measures, using Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plans and BMPs, as determined necessary by the Authorized
Enforcement Agency to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to a storm
water drainage system or water body.
   (4)   The discharge prohibitions of this section shall not apply to any non-
storm water discharge authorized under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the EPA, provided the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements
of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and
provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm
water drainage system.
SECTION 2.02 PROHIBITED ILLICIT CONNECTIONS
   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to construct, use, maintain (or to allow
the construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of) an illicit
connection.
   (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, and regardless
of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or
prevailing at the time of connection.
SECTION 2.03 AUTHORIZED DISCHARGES
The following non-storm water discharges are permissible, but only if they do
not result in a violation of State of Michigan water quality standards and
provided that they are undertaken in compliance with any applicable or required
BMPs:
   (1)   Water supply line flushing.
   (2)   Landscape irrigation runoff.
   (3)   Diverted stream flows.
   (4)   Rising groundwater.
   (5)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to storm drains.
   (6)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater.
   (7)   Discharges from potable water sources.
   (8)   Foundation drains.
   (9)   Air conditioning condensate.
   (10)   Irrigation water.
   (11)   Springs.
   (12)   Water from crawl space pumps.
   (13)   Footing drains and basement sump pumps.
   (14)   Lawn watering runoff.
   (15)   Waters from non-commercial car washing.
   (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
   (17)   Residential swimming pool water and other de-chlorinated swimming
pool water, provided that any filter backwash water that is present is treated.
   (18)   Residual street wash water.
   (19)   Discharges or flows from emergency fire fighting activities.
   (20)   Discharges specifically authorized in writing by the Authorized
Enforcement Agency as being necessary to protect public health, welfare, and
safety or the environment.
SECTION 2.04 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS IN DRAINAGEWAY
Except as permitted by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to store or
stockpile, within a drainageway, any hazardous or toxic materials, unless
adequate protection and/or containment has been provided so as to prevent any
such materials from entering a storm water drainage system or water body.
**** ARTICLE III.INSPECTION, MONITORING, REPORTING, AND RECORD KEEPING ****
SECTION 3.01INSPECTION AND SAMPLING
The Authorized Enforcement Agency may inspect and/or obtain samples from any
discharger's premises as necessary to determine compliance with the
requirements of this Ordinance. Upon request, the discharger shall allow
properly identified representatives of the Authorized Enforcement Agency to
enter the premises of the discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of
such inspection or investigation, including, but not limited to, smoke/dye
testing, televising pipes, sampling, and excavation. The Authorized Enforcement
Agency shall provide the discharger reasonable advance notice of the need for
such access, if possible and consistent with protection of public health and
safety and the environment. The properly identified representatives may place
on the discharger's premises the equipment or devices used for such sampling or
inspection. Unreasonable delays in allowing access to a premises is a violation
of this Ordinance.
SECTION 3.02 STORM WATER MONITORING FACILITIES
If directed in writing to do so by the Authorized Enforcement Agency, a
discharger of storm water runoff from any premises used for commercial or
industrial purposes shall provide and operate equipment or devices for the
monitoring of storm water runoff to provide for inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of each discharge to a water body or a storm water drainage system,
as specified by the Authorized Enforcement Agency. The Authorized Enforcement
Agency may require a discharger to provide and operate such equipment and
devices if it is necessary or appropriate for the inspection, sampling, and
flow measurement of discharges in order to determine whether adverse effects
from, or as a result of, such discharges may occur. All such equipment and
devices for the inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of discharges shall
be installed and maintained at the discharger's expense in accordance with
applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations.
SECTION 3.03 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES
Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a storm water drainage system
or a water body any substance other than storm water or an authorized discharge
shall immediately notify the Authorized Enforcement Agency of the discharge. If
the notification is given orally, a written report concerning the discharge
shall be filed with the Authorized Enforcement Agency within 5 days. The
written report shall specify all of the following:
   (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof.
   (2)   The exact date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge.
   (3)   All measures taken to clean up the discharge, all measures taken or
proposed to be taken to mitigate any known or potential adverse impacts of the
discharge, and all measures proposed to be taken to reduce and prevent any
recurrences.
   (4)   The names and telephone numbers of the individual making the report,
and (if different) the individual who may be contacted for additional
information regarding the discharge.
SECTION 3.04 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT
Any person that violates any requirement of this Ordinance or that is subject
to monitoring under this Ordinance shall retain and preserve for no less than
three years any and all books, drawings, plans, prints, documents, memoranda,
reports, correspondence, and records, including records on magnetic or
electronic media, and any and all summaries of such records relating to
monitoring, sampling, and chemical analysis of any discharge or storm water
runoff from any premises connected with the violation or subject to monitoring.
**** ARTICLE IV. ENFORCEMENT ****
SECTION 4.01 SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION
   (1)   Violation; Municipal Civil Infraction. Except as provided by Section
4.01 (6), and notwithstanding any other provision of the Village of Lexington
laws, ordinances, and regulations to the contrary, a person who violates any
provision of this ordinance (including, without limitation, any notice, order,
permit, decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the Authorized
Enforcement Agency under this Ordinance) is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not more than [$10,000] per
day for each infraction and not more than [$10,000] per day for each
infraction, plus costs and other sanctions.
   (2)   Amount of Fines. The following factors shall be considered by a court
in determining the amount of a municipal civil infraction fine following the
issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation for a violation of this
Ordinance: the type, nature, severity, frequency, duration, preventability,
potential and actual effect, and economic benefit to the violator (such as
delayed or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of a violation; the
violator's recalcitrance or efforts to comply; the economic impacts of the fine
on the violator; and such other matters as justice may require. A violator
shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence and degree of any
mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount of a fine.
However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is determined
that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and terminate all
violations.
   (3)   Authorized Local Official. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Village of Lexington laws, ordinances, and regulations to the contrary, the
following persons are designated as the authorized local officials to issue
municipal civil infraction citations (directing alleged violators to appear in
district court) for violations of this Ordinance (in addition to any other
persons so designated by the Authorized Enforcement Agency): the Manager or
his/her designee, and any police officer.
   (4)   Other Requirements and Procedures. Except as otherwise provided by
this section, the requirements and procedures for commencing municipal civil
infraction actions; issuance and service of municipal civil infraction
citations; determination and collection of court-ordered fines, costs and
expenses; appearances and payment of fines and costs; failure to answer, appear
or, pay fines; disposition of fines, costs and expenses paid; and other matters
regarding municipal civil infractions shall be as set forth in Act No. 236 of
the Public Acts of 1961, as amended.
   (5)   Any person who (1) at the time of a violation knew or should have
known that a pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of
this Ordinance, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or
determination promulgated, issued or made by the Authorized Enforcement Agency
under this Ordinance; or (2) intentionally makes a false statement,
representation, or certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a
permit, or in a notice, report, or record required by this Ordinance, or in any
other correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the Authorized
Enforcement Agency regarding matters regulated by this Ordinance; or (3)
intentionally falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any sampling or
monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this Ordinance; or (4)
commits any other act that is punishable under state law by imprisonment for
more than 90 days; shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of up to $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for
up to 90 days, or both in the discretion of the court.
   (6)   Any person who aids or abets another person in a violation of this
Ordinance shall be subject to the sanctions provided in this section.
SECTION 4.02 FAILURE TO COMPLY; COMPLETION
The Authorized Enforcement Agency is authorized, after giving reasonable notice
and opportunity for compliance, to correct any violation of this Ordinance or
damage or impairment to the storm water drainage system caused by a discharge
and to bill the person causing the violation or discharge for the costs of the
work to be reimbursed. The costs reimbursable under this section shall be in
addition to fees, amounts or other costs and expenses required to be paid to
the Authorized Enforcement Agency under other sections of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4.03 EMERGENCY MEASURES
If emergency measures are necessary to respond to a nuisance; to protect public
safety, health, and welfare; and/or to prevent loss of life, injury, or damage
to property, the Authorized Enforcement Agency is authorized to carry out or
arrange for all such emergency measures. Property owners shall be responsible
for the cost of such measures made necessary as a result of a violation of this
Ordinance, and shall promptly reimburse the Village of Lexington for all of
such costs.
SECTION 4.04 COST RECOVERY FOR DAMAGE TO STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Any person who discharges to a storm water drainage system or a water body,
including, but not limited to, any person who causes or creates a discharge
that violates any provision of this Ordinance, produces a deposit or
obstruction or otherwise damages or impairs a storm water drainage system, or
causes or contributes to a violation of any federal, state, or local law
governing the Village of Lexington, shall be liable to and shall fully
reimburse the Village of Lexington for all expenses, costs, losses or damages
(direct or indirect) payable or incurred by the Village of Lexington as a
result of any such discharge, deposit, obstruction, damage, impairment,
violation, exceedence or noncompliance. The costs that must be reimbursed to
the Village of Lexington shall include, but shall not be limited to, all of the
following:
   (1)   All costs incurred by the Village of Lexington in responding to the
violation or discharge, including, expenses for any cleaning, repair or
replacement work, and the costs of sampling, monitoring, and treatment, as a
result of the discharge, violation, exceedence or noncomplianee.
   (2)   All costs to the Village of Lexington of monitoring, surveillance, and
enforcement in connection with investigating, verifying, and prosecuting any
discharge, violation, exceedence, or noncompliance.
   (3)   The full amount of any fines, assessments, penalties, and claims,
including natural resource damages, levied against the Village of Lexington, or
any Village of Lexington representative, by any governmental agency or third
party as a result ofa violation of applicable laws or regulations that is
caused by or contributed to by any discharge, violation, exceedence, or
noncompliance.
   (4)   The full value of any Village of Lexington staff time (including any
required overtime), consultant and engineering fees, and actual attorney fees
and defense' costs (including the Village of Lexington) legal counsel and any
special legal counsel), associated with responding to, investigating,
verifying, and prosecuting any discharge, violation, exceedence or
noncompliance, or otherwise enforcing the requirements of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4.05 COLLECTION OF COSTS; LIEN
   (1)   Costs incurred by the Village of Lexington pursuant to Sections
4.02,
4.03,
4.04, and
4.06(1) shall constitute a lien on the premises, which shall be enforceable in
accordance with Act No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended from time to
time, or as otherwise authorized by law. Any such charges that are delinquent
for 6 months or more may be certified annually to the Village of Lexington
Treasurer, who shall enter the lien on the next tax roll against the premises,
the costs shall be collected, and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner
as provided for in the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll and the
enforcement of a lien for taxes. In addition to any other lawful enforcement
methods, the Village of Lexington shall have all remedies authorized by Act No.
94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended, and by other applicable laws.
   (2)   The failure by any person to pay any amounts required to be reimbursed
to the Village of Lexington as provided by this Ordinance shall constitute an
additional violation of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4.06 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
   (1)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Authorized Enforcement Agency may, Without prior notice, suspend access to the
storm water drainage system to any person or premises when such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge that presents or may
present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health
orwelfare of persons, or to the storm water drainage system or a water body. If
the person fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
Authorized Enforcement Agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the storm water drainage system or the
environment, or to minimize danger to persons, and bill the person for the
costs to the Village of Lexington in taking such steps.
   (2)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm water drainage system in violation of this Ordinance
may have their access to the system terminated, if the Authorized Enforcement
Agency determines that such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The Authorized Enforcement Agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its access. It shall be unlawful for any person to
reinstate access of the storm water drainage system to a premises terminated
pursuant to this section without the prior written approval of the Authorized
Enforcement Agency.
SECTION 4.07 APPEALS
Any person to whom any provision of this Ordinance has been applied may appeal
in writing to Village of Lexington, not later than 30 days a er the action or
decision being appealed. Such appeal shall identify the matter being appealed,
and the basis for the appeal. The Village of Lexington shall consider the
appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects, or modifies the action
being appealed. In considering any such appeal, the Village of Lexington may
consider the recommendations of the Authorized Enforcement Agency and the
comments of other persons having knowledge or expertise regarding the matter.
In considering any such appeal, the Village of Lexington may grant a temporary
variance from the terms of this Ordinance so as to provide relief, in whole or
in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon finding that the
following requirements are satisfied:
   (1)   The application of the Ordinance provisions being appealed will
present or cause nnecessary hardship for the person appealing; provided,
however, that unnecessary hardship shall not include the need for a property
owner to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with the
Ordinance; and
   (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not prevent accomplishment
of the goals and purposes of this Ordinance, nor result in less effective
management of storm water runoff.
SECTION 4.08 JUDICIAL RELIEF
With the approval of the Village of Lexington, the Authorized Enforcement
Agency may institute legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to
seek all appropriate relief for violations of this Ordinance or of any permit,
order, notice or agreement issued or entered into under this Ordinance. The
action may seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages, penalties,
costs, and any other relief, at law or equity, that a court may order. The
Authorized Enforcement Agency may also seek collection of fines, penalties and
any other amounts due to the Village of Lexington that a person has not paid.
SECTION 4.09 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES
The imposition of a single penalty, fine, order, damage, or surcharge upon any
person for a violation of this Ordinance, or of any permit, order, notice or
agreement issued, or entered into under this Ordinance, shall not preclude the
imposition by the Village of Lexington, the Authorized Enforcement Agency, or a
court of competent jurisdiction of a combination of any or all of those
sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions and remedies with respect to the
same violation, consistent with applicable limitations on penalty amounts under
state or federal laws or regulations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a
criminal action against a person shall not be dependent upon and need not be
held in abeyance during any civil, judicial, or administrative proceeding,
conference, or hearing regarding the person.
**** ARTICLE V. PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN STANDARDS ****
SECTION 5.01 RESPONSIBILITY TO IMPLEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP)
The owner or operator of a premises used for commercial or industrial purposes
shall provide, at the owner or operator's own expense, reasonable protection
from an accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the
storm water drainage system or water body through the use of structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a premises that is, or
may be, the source of an illicit discharge may be required to implement, at the
person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the storm water drainage system or water
body. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with industrial activity,
to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of
this section.
**** ARTICLE VI. OTHER MATTERS ****
SECTION 6.01INTERPRETATION
Words and phrases in this Ordinance shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except those words and phrases defined in Section
1.05 shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in that
section. Technical words and technical phrases not defined in this Ordinance,
but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical usage, shall
be construed according to such meanings.
SECTION 6.02 CATCH-LINE HEADINGS
The catch-line headings of the articles and sections of this Ordinance are
intended for convenience only, and shall not be construed as affecting the
meaning or interpretation of the text of the articles or sections to which they
may refer.
SECTION 6.03 SEVERABILITY
The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable, and if
any part or provision of this Ordinance should be declared invalid or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect any other part or • provision of this
Ordinance.
SECTION 6.04 OTHER ORDINANCES
This Ordinance shall be in addition to other ordinances of the Village of
Lexington and shall not be deemed to repeal or replace other ordinances, or
parts thereof; provided that in the event of any inconsistency or conflict
between this Ordinance and any other provision of any other ordinance, the
provisions of this Ordinance shall control.
SECTION 6.05 EFFECTIVE DATE
This Ordinance shall become effective January 28, 2007, following the
publication of a summary of its provisions in a local newspaper of general
circulation.
This Ordinance was adopted January 22, 2007, by the Lexington Village Council
and made effective January 28, 2007. Clerk
***** Chapters 35-37
RESERVED *****
 
Chapter 38
OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec.
38-1   State law, Misdemeanors
Sec.
38-2   Preservation of Public Property
Secs.
38-3-38-35   Reserved
ART'ICLE II. OFFENSES INOLVING PUBLIC SAFETY
Sec.
38-36.   Firearms, Discharging Limited
Sec.
38-37   Use if Certain Weapons Prohibited
Sec.
38-38   Hunting
Secs.
38-39-38-70   Reserved
ARTICLE III, OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
Sec.
38-71   Curfew for Minors
Sec.
38-72   Begging and Soliciting Alms by Accosting or Forcing Oneself Upon the
Company of Another
Sec.
38-73   Anti-Loitering
Sec.
38-74   Open Intoxicants
Sec.
38-75   Penalty
Sec.
38-76   Repeal
Secs.
38-75-105 Reserved
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC MORALS
Sec.
38-106 Public Nudity
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Sec. 38-1. State law misdemeanors.
Every act prohibited by state law as a misdemeanor is prohibited and whoever
violates the provisions of this section within the village shall, upon
conviction, be punished by the same penalty provided by state law, except that
the penalty shall, in no case, exceed a fine of $500.00, or imprisonment for 90
days, or both. (Ord. No. 74, § 20.464, 9-13-1982{'}'}
Sec. 38-2. Preservation of public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, interfere with or hinder
the use of any public building or any public property whatsoever. (Ord. No. 74,
§ 20.458, 9-13-1982)
Secs. 38-3-38-35. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II, OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC SAFETY ****
Sec. 38-36. Rrearms; discharging limited
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or other
instrument producing a like effect and noise within the village except in the
lawful defense of his person or property, or as otherwise permitted by law.
(Ord. No. 39, § 2, 2-6-1956; Ord. No. 74, § 20.456, 9-13-1982)
State law reference-Authority to prohibit discharge of firearms preserved, MCL
1.23.1104, MSA 5.3415(4).
Sec. 38-37. Use of certain vyeapons prohibited
No person shall use any slingshots, airguns or other similar devices. (Ord. No.
39, § 1, 2-6-1956)
State law references-Dangerous weapons, MCL 750.224 et seq., MSA 28.421 et
seq.; use Of BB guns, MCL 752.891 et seq., MSA 13.1321 et seq.
Sec. 38-38. Hunting,
No person shall pursue, hunt, kill, snare, net, search for, shoot at, stalk, or
lie in wait for any game, animal, or bird with an air gun, B-8 gun, firearm,
bow and arrow, or any other thrown or propelled device within in the Village
limits, except Law Enforcement for the purpose or dispatching a rodent or
injured animal; however, nothing contained in this section l>hall be construed
so as to prevent the carrying of firearms, through the Village to hunting
territory by those licensed or authorized to do so.
Secs. 38-39-38-70. Reserved
**** ARTICLE III. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER ****
Sec. 38-71. Curfew for minors.
   (a)   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll
or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, public
buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places, or pleasure ride or park in automobiles between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; however, the provisions of
this subsection do not apply when the minor is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having
the lawful care and custody of the minor.
      (2)   Upon an emergency .errand directed by his parent or guardian or
other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor.
      (3)   Returning directly home from a school activity, entertainment,
recreational activity or dance.
      (4)   Returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it
necessary to be in the places referenced in this section during the proscribed
period of time.
      (5)   Attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving
the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly or
free exercise of religion.
      (6)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel fn
interstate commerce.
   (b)   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years to violate the
provisions of subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   Every parent, guardian or adult who is found to be in violation of
this section shall be responsible for Grade A civil infraction penalties. Each
violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. No. 29, §§ I, II, 11-2-1943; Ord. No. 99-4, § 3, 8-29-1999)
State law reference-Curfew, MCL 722.751 et seq., MSA 28.342(1) et seq.
Sec. 38-72. Begging and soliciting alms by accosting or forcing oneself upon
the company of another.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accosting means approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a
criminal act upon his person, or upon property in his immediate possession.
Ask, beg or solicit means and includes, without limitation, the spoken, written
or printed word or such other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the
purpose of obtaining alms.
Forcing oneself upon the company of another means continuing to request, beg or
solicit alms from a person after that person has made a negative response,
blocking the passage of the individual addressed or otherwise engaging in
conduct that could reasonably be construed as intended to compel or force a
person to accede to demands.
   (b)   Exceptions. Except when performed in the manner and locations set
forth in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, it shall not be unlawful to
ask, beg or solicit money or other things of value.
   (c)   Location. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or
other things of value:
      (1)   On private property if the owner, tenant or lawful occupant has
asked the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of the entrance to or exit from any public toilet
facility;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of an automatic teller machine, provided that when
an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller machine
facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the
automated teller machine facility;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of any pay telephone, provided that when a pay
telephone is located within a telephone booth or other facility, such distance
shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the telephone booth or facility;
      (5)   In any public transportation vehicle, or in any bus or subway
station, or within 15 feet of any bus stop or taxi-stand;
      (6)   From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public
street; however, this subsection (c)(6) shall not apply to services rendered in
connection with emergency repairs requested by the owner or passengers of such
vehicle;
      (7)   From any persons who are waiting in line for entry to any building,
public or private, including but not limited to any residence, business or
athletic facility; or
      (8)   Within 15 feet of the entrance or exit from a building, public or
private, including but not limited to any residence, business or athletic
facility.
   (d)   Manner. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other
things of value:
      (1{'}'}   By accosting another; or
      (2)   By forcing oneself upon the company of another. (Ord. No. 74, §
20.452, 9-13-1982)
State law reference-Begging, Mel 750.167(1)(h), MSA 28.364, (l)(h).
** Secs. 38-73-38-105. Reserved **
Sec. 38-73. Loitering and Emergency Curfew Ordinance.
   (a)   Purpose; The purpose of this ordinance shall be to prohibit the
gathering of people in public places for unlawful or mischievous purposes; to
prohibit persons from loitering or standing in, near, or upon public or private
places, unless for a valid, proper, peaceful and lawful purpose; to establish
emergency curfew regulations and authority for use in times of civil
disturbances and disorder; and to provide authority to obtain police assistance
form adjoining municipalities, pursuant to agreements with such municipalities,
in times of civil disorder.
   (b)   Regulations.
      (1)   No person or persons shall collect or congregate in crowds, nor
arrange, encourage or abet the collection of persons or crowds for illegal,
violent, destructive or mischievous purposes on any street, alley, sidewalk,
park, ground or other place open to public use.
      (2)   No person or persons shall incite any disturbance, violence or
damage to persons or property nor aid or abet the assemblage of persons where
such gathering is likely to cause such public or private disturbance, violence,
damage or riot.
      (3)   No person or persons shall, either individually or with others,
stand, loiter, stroll or collect in groups for any unlawful, violent,
destructive or mischievous purpose or without cause, nor in any manner which
would intentionally inconvenience or interfere with others lawfully, peacefully
and properly occupying any place, either public or private, in the Village of
Lexington; and no such person or persons shall refuse to leave any such place
upon the request of any person having lawful supervision or control of said
place. The foregoing places shall include, among others, any and all schools,
hospital and governmental or municipal properties.
      (4)   No person or persons shall loiter in or about any place where
liquor is sold, nor any pool room, billiard hall, amusement hall, gambling
house or disorderly house, or wander about the streets of the Village of
Lexington without any lawful means of support or without being able to furnish
a legal and truthful reason for his or her presence in the particular location,
or without identifying, upon request his or her legal place of residence.
      (5)   Emergency curfew regulations shall be put into effect as provided
in Section
38-73(b)(6) hereof by order of the Village President (or in his Or her absence,
any two members of the Village Council) at any time such President or Village
Council members shall determine that any of the following conditions exist in
the Village:
         (A)   Violation of law or creation of disorder, disturbance,
destruction or rioting by groups or gangs of persons.
         (B)   Emotional, volatile, threatening and hostile conduct or action
by any group, crowd or gang of persons within the Village.
         (C{'}'}   Public demonstrations threatening the peace, health or
general welfare of the people within the Village.
      (6)   Upon issuance of such an emergency curfew order by the Village
President or members of the Village Council as provided in Section
38-73(b)(5) hereof, no person shall be upon the streets or in any public place
within the Village between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. unless he or she is
in the performance of his or her lawful employment; or can justify the
necessity of his or her presence in the street or public place by some other
lawful and adequate reason.
      (7)   The Village President (or in his or her absence, any two (2)
members of the Village Council), after making such emergency curfew order, may
request the assistance of the police of any other municipality pursuant to any
agreement. heretofore or hereafter made with such municipality for such purpose
by the Village of Lexington Council.
   (c)   Penalty. All violations of this Ordinance shall be civil infractionsi
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
Fifty ($50.00) Dollars nor more than Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars.
   .01   No Exemption From Compliance. The imposition of any sentence shall not
exempt an offender from compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   .02   Other Appropriate Relief. The foregoing penalties shall not prohibit
the Village from seeking injunctive relief against a violator or such other
appropriate relief as may be provided by law.
   .03   Each Day A Separate Offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or when a violation occurs or continues .
   . 04   Rights and Remedies are Cumulative. The rights and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
REPEAL
The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any
clause, sentence, paragraph, rule, regulation, section or subsection is
declared void or inoperable for any reason by any Court, it shall not affect
any other part or portion thereof, other than the part declared void or
inoperable.
Amended ordinance number 59 section 20.650-20-653 of Aug. 11, 1975
An ordinance to prohibit the possession and /or transportation of open
intoxicants.
THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON ORDAINS:
Sec. 38-74. PROHIBIDON AND EXCEPTION
A person shall not transport or possess any alcoholic beverage in a container
which is open, uncapped, or upon which the seal is broken, on a highway, alley,
beach, or any public or private property which is open to the general public
and is not licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
Exceptions may be granted for Village approved events.
Sec. 38-75. PENALTY
Anyone found violating this ordinance is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
a fine up to $500 and/or imprisonment up to 90 days.
Sec. 38-76. REPEAL
Any ordinance or parts of ordinances inconsistent with the provision of this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
Reference 1998, Act 58, Imd. Eff. Apr. 14, 1998436.1915
Secs. 38-77-34-105 Reserved
**** ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC MORALS ****
Sec. 38-106. Public nudity.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bottomless means less than completely and opaquely covered human genitalia,
human buttocks, or human pubic area, that being the lower part of the
hypogastric region that from puberty on is normally covered with fine, soft,
short hairs, whether or not such area is shaven or otherwise depilated.
Knowingly means being aware of the character of the matter or live conduct.
Obscene live conduct knowingly means the:
      (1)   Performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts prohibited by law;
      (2)   Actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   Actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or
genitals;
      (4)   Permitting by a licensee ofany person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his genitals or
anus; and
      (5)   Displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, the live
performance of which was prohibited by subsections (IH4).
Topless means less than completely and opaquely covered female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and in a lewd and
obscene manner be topless and/or bottomless in any establishment licensed by
the state liquor commission to sell and/or serve intoxicating beverages or in
any other establishment within the corporate limits of the village.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, employer, agent or any
employee of any business or establishment within the corporate limits licensed
by the state liquor commission or in any other establishment within the
corporate limits of the village to permit any person to appear in the presence
of the patrons of the establishment in a lewd, obscene, topless
and/or bottomless manner or to permit any person to serve food or beverages
while appearing in such manner.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, employer, agent or any
employee of any business or establishment to permit or for any person to engage
in any of the following conduct in any such establishment within the corporate
limits licensed by the state liquor commission or in any other establishment
within the corporate limits of the village:
      (1)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any other
sexual acts prohibited by law;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling o he
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva
or genitals; and
      (4)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, the live
performance of which is prohibited by this section.
(Ord. No. 61, §§ 1.4, 3.22.1977)
*State law reference-Authority to prohibit public nudity, MCL 67.1 (aa), MSA
5.1285, (aa).
***** Chapters 39-41
Reserved *****
Chapter 42
PARKS AND RECREATION*
Article I. In General
Secs, 42-1-42-30. Reserved.
Article II. Parks and Recreation Committee
Sec.
42-31. Established; membership; terms; compensation.
Sec. 42-32. Officers.
Sec. 42-33. Voting.
Sec.
42-34. Authority and duties.
Sec.
42-35. Financing and reports.
*Cross references-Environment,
ch. 34; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62.
State law references-Public recreation systems authorized, MCL 123.51 et seq.,
MSA 5.2421 et seq.; authority to establish and regulate use of public parks,
MCL 67.6, MSA 5.1290; referendum required to sell park, MCL 67.4, MSA 5.1288.
*Cross reference(s)- Boards and commissions,§ 2-151 et seq.
Sec. 42-31. Established; membership; terms; compensation.
There is established a parks and recreation committee, which shall consist of
five to seven residents of the village, each serving two year staggered terms.
Members shall be nominated by the Village President and confirmed by the
Village Council. No member shall receive any salary or other compensation for
his services. Members may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of official duties, after approval by the Village
Council.
(Ord. No. 112 § 1-3, 12-13-1993)
Sec 42-34. Authority and duties.
The parks and recreation committee may recommend fees and/or rentals for
various facilities and equipment to the Village Council and, upon approval,
shall cause such fees and/or rentals to be collected.
Additionally, the committee shall perform the following duties:
   1.   Organize recreational activities.
   2.   Insure adequacy of parks.
   3.   Develop plans for facilities that enhance recreational activities.
   4.   Prepare and submit to the village manager a proposed annual budget.
   5.   Report to the village manager the state of parks and recreational
activities on an annual basis, minimally.
   6.   Hold regular committee meetings.
   7.   Elect committee officers and appoint subcommittees chaired by a
committee member.
(Ord. No. 112 § 6, 12-13-1993)
Sec. 42-35. Financing and reports.
All funds raised by facilities under the jurisdiction of the parks and
recreation committee shall be placed in a separate fund to be used for the
operation, maintenance, improvement, construction and purchase of parks and
recreational facilities. The committee shall provide monthly reports to the
village council regarding all activities including receipts and expenditures.
The committee shall follow the fiscal and purchasing policies approved by
Lexington village council.
Chapter 46
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS*
Article I. In General
Secs.
46-1-46-30.   Reserved.
Article II. Peddlers
Division 1. Generally
Sec.
46-31.   Definitions.
Sec.
46-32.   Duties of police.
Sec.
46-33.   Use of streets.
Sec.
46-34.   Restrictions on sale of food.
Secs.
46-35-46-55.    Reserved.
Division 2. License
Sec.
46-56.   Required.
Sec.
46-57.   Excepted activities.
Sec.
46-58.    Application.
Sec.
46-59.   Fee.
Sec.
46-60.   Investigation of applicant; issuance.
Sec.
46-61.   Exhibition.
Sec.
46-62.   Record of licenses issued, reports of violations.
*Cross references-Businesses,
ch. 14; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62.
State law references-Authority to license and regulate peddlers and hawkers,
MCL 67.l(h), MSA 5.1285, (h); transient merchants, MCL 445.371 et seq., MSA
19.691 et seq.
**** ARTICLE I. In General ****
Sec. 46-1.46-30 Reserved
**** ARTICLE II. Peddlers ****
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 46-31. Definitions.
LICENSE ISSUED FOR SPECIAL EVENTS ONLY
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   (1)   Authorized officer includes any Lexington police officer and all
Village of Lexington administrative officers and their designees.
   (2)   Established competing business is a Village business engaged in sales
of substantially similar products/services at a permanent location, whether
they own or lease the property or otherwise have a written agreement with the
Village of Lexington to be in this location.
   (3)   Exempt organizations shall mean any recognized nonprofit organizations
or societies making sales for charitable, educational, religious, fraternal,
labor, political groups or for public purpose. Arts/crafts vendors operating
with consent of the organization sponsoring clients approved by the village
council; provided the duration of their event is less than seven days.
   (4)   Licensee shall mean a person or business authorized under this article
to sell in the village as a peddler/solicitor or transient merchant.
   (S)   Peddlershall mean any person who travels about by foot, wagon,
automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, or
from street to street, selling his/her product/service. The word "peddler"
shall include the words "hawker" and "huckster."
   (6)   Person shall mean any person, firm, association, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, corporation or other business entity,
regardless of whether a resident of the village or not.
   (7)   Product and or service, shall mean goods, wares, merchandise, flowers,
food items, meats, fish, vegetables, fruit, garden truck, farm products, etc.,
or work done for others as an occupation or business.
   (8)   Removable stand means a non-motorized cart, kiosk, or other unit
capable of being pushed by one person, with at least two functional wheels, and
must be self -contained and capable of mobility at all times.
   (9)   Solicitor shall include any person traveling about by foot, wagon,
automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from
house to house or from street to street, engaged in the business of taking
orders, making contracts for the purchase of products/service for future
delivery or any person who shall employ a representative, agent, or crew to
engage in such activity. The word solicitor shall also include the "canvasser."
   (10)   Transient merchant means any person, whether as owner, employee,
agent, or consignee, who engages in a temporary business from a stationary
location on commercially -zoned private property to sell and deliver a product/
service, display examples and take orders or make contract for the purchase of
a products/service for future delivery, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, or boat, public rooms in hotels, motels,
lodging houses, apartments, shops, etc., for the exhibition and sale of such
product/service, either privately or at public auction. The person so engaged
shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this section merely
by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a
part or, or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
   (11)   Veteran shall mean any veteran qualifying for a state peddler's
license issued by the county clerk pursuant to Public Act NO 359 of 1921 as
amended (Mel 35.441 et seq.) who has provided a copy of said license to the
Village of Lexington clerk.
Sec. 46-32. Duties of police.
Police officers of the village shall require any person seen peddling, and who
is not known by such officers to be duly licensed, to produce his peddler's
license and shall enforce this article against any person found to be violating
any of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 81, § 11, 2-13-1984)
Sec. 46-33. Use of streets.
No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets
or be permitted a stationary location or be permitted to operate in any
congested area where his operations might impede or inconvenience the public.
For the purpose of this article, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in
good faith, sl1all be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or
the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. No. 81, § 9, 2-13-1984)
Sec. 46-34. Restrictions on sale of food
   (a)   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any unsound, unripe or
unwholesome food or drink or defective, faulty or deteriorated article of food.
   (b)   No licensee shall make a sale of food or drink to any person under the
age of 12 years on any property nearer the traveled portion of any street than
the side of the public sidewalk nearest to the pavement, or, where no public
sidewalk exists, nearer than ten feet from the outer edge of such pavement.
Where streets are unpaved, this restriction shall be deemed to apply to that
portion of the street set aside for or used by vehicular traffic.
(Ord. No. 81, § 6(c), (e), 2-13-1984)
Secs. 46-35--46-55. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec.46-56. Required
   (a)   No person shall engage in the business of peddling within the village
without first obtaining a license. Military veterans with valid permits issued
by the county clerk who become licensed by the village prior to soliciting
shall be exempt from paying required fees. The veteran must be the actual
person selling the goods or wares. Failure to comply with license provisions
will result in ticketing and order to cease operation and immediate removal
from the premises.
   (b)   Any person who engages in the business of hawking, peddling or vending
according to the provisions of this article, without a license, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of this article; shall be subject to the
penalties for a Grade C civil infraction. Each day or part of a day that a
person shall hawk, peddle or vend without a valid license shall be considered a
separate violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 81, § 2, 2-13-1984; Ord. No. 99-4, § 2, 8-29-1999)
Sec. 46-57. Excepted activitie:,:
   (1)   Exemptions from license fee only any established competing business
which sells a product/service at a permanent location within the Village with
the written consent of organizations sponsoring events approved by village
council; or is a veteran of exempt organization (as defined in section
46-31) shall be exempt from payment of licensing fees only. Responsible for the
cost of utilities if any used, supervisory, clean up costs, processing fees,
and investigation fee. All vendors must apply for peddler's license. All other
provisions of this article apply.
   (2)   Other exemptions. The following shall be exempt from this division in
its entirety:
      (a)   Newspaper salespersons or delivery persons.
      (b)   Persons traveling on an established route at the request, expressed
or implied of their customers.
      (c)   Salespersons calling on business establishments.
      (d)   Any person under 18 years of age when engaged in peddling on foot
in the neighborhood of their residence under the direct supervision of any
school or recognized charitable or religious organization.
Sec. 46-58. Application.
Applicants for a license under this ordinance must file with the village clerk
a sworn application in writing, on a form to be furnished by the village clerk,
which form shall contain the following information for each occurrence:
   (1)   The name of the applicant, the business, and other identifying
information;
   (2)   The applicant's address, both legal and local;
   (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
wares to be sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether
produced or grown by the applicant;
   (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (6)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle, together
with the license number or other means of identification;
   (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately prior
to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be AT LEAST two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguished manner;
   (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime and, if so, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty
assessed.
   (9)   The number of the applicant's sales or use tax license.
   (10)   Peddlers must follow all building codes and requirements and must
obtain permits when required.
   (11)   Other license requirements. A copy of the county health certificate
approval must be submitted prior to issuance of a license by the village if
applicable. In addition, it will be the obligation of the licensee to obtain
any other required licenses from the county and/or state.
Sec. 46-59. Fee.
At the time of filing the application for a license required by this ordinance,
a fee, which shall be from time to time set by the village council and a
schedule of which shall be available at the village clerk's office for
examination, shall be paid to the village clerk to cover the cost of
processing, investigation, supervision, and clean up. The fee is required for
each separate sponsored event of four (4) consecutive days or less.
(Ord. No. 81, §§ 4(b), 7, 2-13-1984; Ord. of 5-14-1990)
Sec. 46-60. Investigation of applicant; Issuance.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the application for a license required by this
ordinance, the original shall be referred to the police department, who shall
cause such investigation of the applicant's moral character to be made using a
professional agency that specializes in personal background investigations for
the protection of the public good.
   (b)   If as a result of such investigation the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found not to have good moral character, the officer
shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for
disapproval and return the application to the village clerk, who shall notify
the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no license will be
issued.
   (c)   If as a result of such investigation the applicant is found to be of
good moral character, the officer shall endorse on the application his approval
and return such application to the village clerk, who shall, upon payment of
the prescribed license fee, issue a license.
   (d)   No license to peddle prepared food in the village shall be issued
under this division except to the person holding a current food handler's
certificate issued the county and person in direct contact with end user. Every
applicant shall be 16 years of age or over.
   (e)   Such license shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and
shall show the:
      (1)   Name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   Class of license issued and the kind of goods or wares to be sold
under the license;
      (3)   Amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the
license shall be operative; and
      (4)   License number and other identifying description of any vehicle
used in such peddling.
The village clerk shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued for
three years.
All applicants must provide proof of insurance in an amount as determined by
the village council before a license is issued. No licensee shall sell their
goods or wares in the village or within 200 feet of a permanent village
business that sells the same goods or wares. No licensee shall sell their goods
or wares in the area or adjoining area of a village approved event without
written permission of the organization conducting the event. No truckload style
events shall be conducted on public property. Truckload style events held on
private property must have the written permission of the property owner and not
to exceed four consecutive days more than twice a year. Written authorization
must be granted by the village or designated organization to sell goods or
wares on village property.
(Ord. No. 81, §§ 5, 6(a), 2-13-1984{'}'}
Sec. 46-61. Exhibition.
Peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses at the request of any resident
of the village. (Ord. No. 81, § 10, 2-13-1984)
Sec. 46-62. Record of licenses issued_, reports of violations.
The police department shall report to the village clerk all convictions for
violations of any of the provisions of this ordinance, and the village clerk
shall maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of
violations in such record. All vendors license for Village Parks will only be
issued for Council approved events.
(Ord. No. 81, § 12, 2-13-1984)
***** Chapters 47-49
RESERVED *****
Chapters 47-49 RESERVED
Chapter 50
PLANNING
Article I. In General
Sec.
50-1.50-30   Reserved
Article II. Planning Commission
Sec.
50-31   Established
Sec.
50-32   Membership
Sec.
50-33   Compensation
Cross References -Any ordinance adopting or amending the comprehensive plan
saved from repeal§
1-12(a) (8) any ordinance dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or
subdivision saved from repeal,§
1-12(a)(12); the Village's zoning ordinance saved from repeal,§
1 - 12(a)(14); any ordinance rezoning property saved from repeal,§
1-12(a)(15); administration,
ch. 2; buildings and building regulations,
ch. 10; community development,
ch. 26; environment,
ch. 34; special assessments,
ch. 58; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch.62: utilities,
ch. 70
*State Law Reference -Municipal Planning, MCI 125.31 et seq., MSA 502991 et
seq.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Secs. 50-1-50-30 Reserved
**** ARTICLE II. PLANNING COMMISSION ****
Sec 50-31 Established
There is established a Village Planning Commission to be known as "The Village
Planning Commission of Lexington."
(Ord. No. 70 § 1, 11-9-1981)
State law reference -Authority to create planning commission, MCL 125.32, MSA
5.12992.
Sec. 50-32 Membership.
   (a)   The planning commission shall consist of the village president, and
one member of the council to be selected by it as ex officio members, plus (5)
persons who shall be appointed by the village president and confirmed by the
council.
   (b)   The terms of ex officio members shall correspond to their respective
official tenures. The term of each appointed member shall be three years or
until his successor takes office .
   (c)   The council may remove a member of the planning commission for
misfeasance, alfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as
original appointments are made.
(Ord. No 70 § 2,11-9-1981; Ord. of 12-14-1981)
State law reference -Planning commission membership, MCL 125.3801, MSA 5.2993.
To comply with the Michigan Planning Enabling Act of2008 .
Sec. 50-33 Compensation
   (a)   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be paid a sum of $25 per
Regular meeting of the Planning Commission actually attended by him/her during
his/her term of office up to two (2) per month.
      Approved by Council October 25, 2010
      Published October 31, 2010
   Effective October 25, 2010
*Cross reference -Board and commissions, §
2-151 et seq.
***** Chapters 51-53
RESERVED *****
Chapters 51-53 RESERVED
Chapter 54
SOLID WASTE*
Article I. In General
Secs.
54-1-54-30. Reserved.
Article II. Municipal Collection and Disposal Service
Sec.
54-31.   Definitions.
Sec.
54-32.   Purpose and intent
Sec.
54-J3.   Scope.
Sec.
54-34.   Method of collection.
Sec.
54-35.   Storage and receptacles.
Sec.
54-36.   Industrial, commercial and multiple-family garbage and rubbish.
Sec.
54-37.   Rates, charges, penalty.
Sec.
54-38.   Removal by village.
Sec.
54-39.    Incineration-.
*Cross references-Buildings and building regulations,
ch. 10; environment,
ch. 34; utilities,
ch 70
.
State law references-Solid waste management, MCL 324.11501 et seq., MSA
13A.11501 et seq.; recycling and related subjects, Mel 324.16101 et seq., MSA
13A.16101 et seq.; littering, MCL 324.8901 et seq., MSA 13A.8901 et seq.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Sees. 54-1-54-30. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II. MUNICIPAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE* ****
Sec. 54-31. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means the putrescible and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Residential dwelling means any room or combination of rooms in which one or
more people are residing. When a structure is being utilized by more than one
person or family as a multiple dwelling, the village business manager shall
determine whether or not it shall be assessed as more than one inhabited
dwelling.
Rubbish means the miscellaneous waste material resulting from housekeeping and
ordinary mercantile enterprises, trades, manufacturers, offices and stores,
including ashes, cartons, tin cans, metal, small packing boxes and wastepapers,
excluding discarded materials from building construction or repair or refuse
from industrial plants.
(Ord. No. 104, § 1, 10-30-1991)
Cross reference-Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 54-32. Purpose and Intent.
It is the intent of the village council that this article be liberally
construed for the purpose of providing a sanitary and satisfactory method of
collecting and disposing of municipal wastes. The village business manager is
authorized to make such rules and regulations as from time to time appear to
him to be necessary to carry out this intent; however, such rules must not
conflict with this article or other ordinances of the village.
(Ord. No. 104, § 2, 10-30-1991)
Sec. 54-33. Scope.
Except in those cases where sleeping rooms are rented, it is the intent of this
article to assess all structures used as multiple dwellings. Anyone protesting
the village business manager's determination may within 20 days following
receipt of his billing protest the ruling to the village council, who is
empowered to make a determination.
(Ord. No. 104, § 1, 10-30-1991)
*State law reference-Local solid waste disposal facilities, MCL 324.4301 et
seq., MSA 13A.4301 et seq.
Sec. 54-34. Method of collection.
Garbage and rubbish shall be collected by village-approved contractors or
village personnel at such times and pursuant to rules and regulations
established by the village business manager. Such rules and regulations shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least once
before such rules and regulations become effective, and as often as the village
business manager shall deem necessary.
(Ord. No. 104, § 3, 10-30-1991)
Sec. 54-35. Storage and receptacles.
   (a)   The owner, occupant or lessor, or their agent, of every premises where
garbage and rubbish accumulate shall cause to be provided on the premises
sufficient and proper receptacles. Receptacles that are broken, without
handles, or that otherwise fail to comply with the requirements of this article
may be collected as rubbish. All garbage shall be stored in a receptacle
complying with the provisions for garbage receptacles ofthis article. All
rubbish shall be stored in a receptacle complying with the provisions for
rubbish receptacles in this article. Rubbish may be stored outside rubbish
receptacles for a period not exceeding seven days, subject to the provisions of
this article. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent any person
required to provide for the removal of garbage and rubbish at his expense from
using commercial dumpsters for that purpose provided such dumpsters have tight
fitting covers and are maintained in good working order and in a sanitary
condition.
   {'{'}b)   The receptacles for garbage and rubbish shall be kept on the
premises in the rear within an approved distance of the rear entrance to the
dwelling or premises. Up to three containers shall be placed at the curb on
pickup days, readily accessible to the collectors. Where approved liners are
used, it will only be necessary to place the liner and contents at the curb,
securely bound at the top.
   (c)   Garbage receptacles shall be of substantial approved construction,
free of holes, with proper handles and a tight fitting cover and shall have a
capacity of not less than ten gallons or more than 30 gallons; and no single
receptacle shall weigh more than 60 pounds when full. Garbage receptacles shall
be adequate in size and number to hold one week's accumulation. All garbage
receptacles shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
   (d)   Rubbish receptacles shall be made of metal or plastic with handles, in
good condition, and shall weigh no more than 60 pounds when full. Rubbish
containers not complying with
these requirements may be collected as rubbish without notice, except that
garbage receptacles may be used as rubbish containers.
   (e)   Accumulations of rubbish larger than can be contained in a receptacle
shall be securely tied in compact bundles not to exceed 60 pounds in weight and
four feet in length and placed in a location designated by the village business
manager.
   (f)   Empty containers shall not be left at the curb more than 12 hours.
   (g)   Ashes will be removed only when placed in rubbish containers and shall
not be hot or smoking.
   (h)   No person shall move, disturb, damage or destroy any garbage or
rubbish receptacle or the contents of any garbage or rubbish receptacle or
rubbish bundle except as otherwise provided in this article.
   (i)   No person shall include any waste in his garbage or rubbish that is
subject to special disposal requirements by state or federal regulations. (Ord.
No. 104, § 4, 10-30-1991)
Sec. 54-36. Industrial, commercial and multiple-family garbage and rubbish.
The owners, managers, occupants or other responsible parties for all industrial
and commercial firms and all multiple-family dwellings shall make satisfactory
arrangements for the disposal of garbage and rubbish at their own expense in
full compliance with all other provisions of this article regarding the storage
and accumulation of garbage and rubbish and all other applicable local, state
and federal laws. For purposes of this section, the term "multiple-family
dwelling" shall mean a structure with three or more residential dwellings. The
owners, managers, occupants or other responsible parties for commercial firms
and multiple-family dwellings, but excluding industrial firms, may contract
with the village for the disposal of garbage and rubbish subject to the
following requirements:
   (1)   All contracts shall be for a period of one year, consideration for
which shall be paid in advance.
   (2)   All contracts shall be subject to the rules, regulations and limits
set forth in this article, including the limit of three containers of garbage
and/or rubbish per week.
   (3)   Fees for contract service shall be established by council resolution
in the same manner as rates for noncontract residents are set. (Ord. No. 104, §
5, 10-30-1991)
Cross reference-Businesses,
ch. 14.
Sec. 54-37. Rates, charges, penalty.
   (a)   The rates for garbage and rubbish collection shall be established by
council resolution and amended at such times as deemed necessary by the village
council to defray the cost of collection and administration.
   (b)   Statements shall be rendered at such times and in such manner as shall
be established by resolution of the village council.
   (c)   All charges for garbage and rubbish services shall be payable on or
before the due date shown on the statement. If any garbage or rubbish charges
shall not be paid on or before the due date shown on the statement, there shall
be added to the amount shown on such statement a collection fee of ten percent.
Such collection fee shall be charged to the account of the customer and added
to the next succeeding statement, and payment shall be enforced in the same
manner as the original charges.
   (d)   The charges for garbage and rubbish service are made a lien on all
premises served by the service. Whenever any such charge against any premises
shall be delinquent as of May 1, the village official in charge of collection
shall certify such delinquency to the village assessor; and such charges shall
be entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against such premises and shall
be collected and the lien enforced in the same manner as special assessments
against such premises. (Ord. No. 104, § 6, 10-30-1991)
Sec. 54-38. Removal by village.
If any person shall violate section
54-35, the village, after giving three days' written notice of its intention to
do so, may cause the removal of garbage or accumulated rubbish or other waste
material and charge the cost to the owner, occupant or lessee of such premises.
If such charges are not paid within 30 days after the owner, occupant or lessee
of the premises is served with a written notice of the amount of such charges,
the village shall levy a special assessment for the amount of such charges
against the parcel or real estate from which such paper, rubbish or other waste
material was removed. The collection of such charges or the levying of such
special assessment shall in no manner affect the liability ofthe owner,
occupant or lessee for criminal prosecution for violation of the provisions of
this article or to the criminal penalties provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 104, § 7, 10-30-1991)
Sec. 54-39. Incineration.
No burning shall be permitted on private property outside of a building or
structure unless the following conditions prevail:
   (1)   No such fire shall be ignited within ten feet of any existing building
or within two feet of any property line, and in no case shall a fire be
permitted to burn between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (2)   No burning shall be done at any time or place when wind conditions
will create or be apt to create a nuisance to anyone or the property of anyone
in the vicinity.
(Ord. No. 104, § 8, 10-30-1991)
***** Chapters 55-57
-RESERVED *****
Chapters 55-57 -RESERVED
Chapter 58
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS*
Article I. In General
Secs.
58-1-58-30. Reserved.
Article II. Local Improvements
Sec.
58-31. Definitions.
Sec.
58-32. Authority to assess.
Sec.
58-33. Initiation of special assessment projects.
Sec.
58-34. Initiation by petition.
Sec.
58-35. Survey and report.
Sec.
58-36. Determination on the project; notice.
Sec.
58-37. Hearing on necessity.
Sec.
58-38. Deviation from plans and specifications.
Sec.
58-39. Limitations on preliminary expenses.
Sec.
58-40. Special assessment roll.
Sec.
58-41. Assessor to file assessment roll
Sec.
58-42. Meeting to review special assessment roll; objections in writing
Sec.
58-43. Changes and corrections in assessment roll.
Sec.
58-44. Objection to assessment.
Sec.
58-45. Special assessment; when due.
Sec.
58-46. Partial payments; when due.
Sec.
58-47. Delinquent special assessments.
Sec.
58-48. Creation of lien.
Sec.
58-49. Additional assessments, refunds.
Sec.
58-50. Additional procedures.
Sec.
58-51.Collection of special assessments.
Sec.
58-52. Special assessment accounts.
Sec.
58-53. Contested assessments.
Sec.
58-54. Reassessment for benefits.
Sec.
58-55. Combination of projects.
Sec.
58-56. Division of parcels.
Sec.
58-57. Deferred payments of special assessments
Sec.
58-58. Reconsideration of petitions.
*Cross references-Any ordinance levying or imposing any special assessment
saved from repeal,§
1-12(a)(9); community development,
ch. 26; planning,
ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Secs. 58-1-58-30. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II. LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS* ****
Sec. 58-31. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Cost, when referring to the cost of any local public improvement, shall include
the cost of services, plans, condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices,
advertising, financing, construction, legal fees, interest on special
assessment bonds for not to exceed one year, and all other costs incident to
the making of such improvement, the special assessments for and the financing
of the improvement.
Local publicimprovement means any public improvement of such a nature as to
benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in the
vicinity ofsuch improvement. (Ord. No. 55, § 1, 4-29-1974)
Cross reference-Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 58-32. Authority to assess.
The whole or any part of the cost of any local public improvement may be
defrayed by special assessment upon the lands specially benefited by the
improvement in the manner provided in this article. (Ord. No. 55, § 2, 4-29-
1974)
State law reference-Authority to assess local improvements or repairs by
special assessment, MCL 68.31, MSA 5.1370(1).
Sec. 58-33. Initiation of special assessment projects.
Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the village,
their tentative necessity, and the determination that the whole or any part of
the expense shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property
especially benefited; provided that all special assessments levied shall be in
proportion to the benefits derived from the improvements and may be commenced
by resolution of the council, with or without a petition.
(Ord. No. 55, § 3, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-34. Initiation by petition.
Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by property
owners whose aggregate property in the proposed district was assessed for not
less than 51 percent of the total assessed value of the privately owned real
property located in the district, all shown by the last preceding general tax
records of the village. Such petition shall contain a brief description of the
property owned by the respective signatories; and ifit shall appear that the
petition is signed by at least 51 percent as stated in this section, the clerk
shall certify such fact to the council. The petition shall be addressed to the
council and filed with the clerk and shall in no event be considered directory
but is advisory only.
(Ord. No. 55, § 4, 4-29-1974)
*State law reference-Special assessment procedures to be as established by
ordinance, MCL 68.32, MSA 5.1370(2).
Sec. 58-35. Survey and report
Before the council shall consider the making of any local improvement, the
council shall cause to be prepared a report, which shall include necessary
plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates of cost, an estimate of
the life of the improvement, a description of the assessment district, and such
other pertinent information as will permit the council to decide the cost,
extent and necessity of the improvement proposed and what part or proportion
should be paid by special assessments upon the property especially benefited
and what part, if any, should be paid by the village at large. The council
shall not finally determine to proceed with the making of any local public
improvement until such report has been filed, nor until after a public hearing
has been held by the council for the purpose of hearing objections to the
making of such improvement.
(Ord. No. 55, § 5, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-36. Determination on the project; notice.
   (a)   After receiving the report required in section 58-35 for making any
local public improvement as requested in the resolution of the council, and the
council has reviewed the report, a resolution may be passed tentatively
determining the necessity of the improvement, setting forth its nature,
prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of such improvement shall be
paid by special assessment upon the property especially benefited,
determination of benefits received by affected properties, and what part, if
any, shall be paid by the village at large; designating whether to be assessed
according to frontage or other benefits, placing the complete information on
file in the office of the village clerk, where it may be found for examination;
and directing the village clerk to give notice of public hearing on the
proposed improvement, at which time and place opportunity will be given
interested persons to be heard. Such notice shall be given by one publication
in a newspaper published or circulated within the village and by first class
mail addressed to each owner of or person in interest in property to be
assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the village. The
publication of notice shall be made at least seven full days prior to the
hearing, and the mailing of notice shall be made at least ten full days prior
to the date of the hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at
any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the council.
   (b)   The notice shall include a statement that appearance and protest at
the hearing in the special assessment proceedings is required in order to
appeal the amount of the special assessment to the state tax tribunal, and that
an owner or party in interest, or his agent, may appear in person at the
hearing to protest the special assessment or may file his appearance or protest
by letter and his personal appearance shall not be required. The notice shall
further include a statement that the owner or any party having an interest in
the real property may file a written appeal of the special assessment with the
state tax tribunal within 30 days after the confirmation of the special
assessment roll if that special assessment was protested at the hearing held
for the purpose of confirming the roll.
(Ord. No. 55, § 6, 4-29-1974)
*State law reference-Notice by mail required, MCL 211.741, MSA 5.3534(1).
Sec. 58-37. Hearing on necessity.
At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons interested shall
be given an opportunity to be heard, aner which the council may modify the
scope of the local public improvement in such a manner as they shall deem to be
in the best interest of the village as a whole; provided that if the amount of
work is increased or additions are made to the district, another hearing shall
be held pursuant to notice prescribed in section
58-36. If the determination of the council shall be to proceed with the
improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimates of cost, and
directing the assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the council's determination and report the roll to the council for
confirmation.
(Ord. No. 55, § 7, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-38. Deviation from plans and specifications.
No deviation from original plans or specifications as adopted shall be
permitted by any officer or employee of the village without authority of the
council by resolution. A copy of the resolution authorizing such changes or
deviation shall be certified by the village clerk and attached to the original
plans and specifications on file in the clerk's office.
(Ord. No. 55, § 8, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-39. Limitations on preliminary expenses.
The council shall specify the provisions and procedures for financing a local
public improvement. No contract or expenditure, except for the cost of
preparing necessary profiles, plans, specifications and estimates of cost,
shall be made for the improvement, nor shall any improvement be commenced until
the special assessment roll to defray the costs shall have been made and
confirmed. (Ord. No. 55, § 9, 4-29-1974)
Sec. S8-40. Special assessment roll.
The assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and parcels of
land within the designated district benefited by the proposed improvement and
assess to each lot or parcel of land the proportionate amount benefited. The
amount spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed estimate of cost as
approved by the council.
(Ord. No. 55, § 10, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-41. Assessor to file assessment roll.
When the assessor shall have completed the assessment roll, he shall file it
with the village clerk for presentation to the council for review and
certification by it.
(Ord. No. 55, § 11, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-42. Meeting to review special assessment roll; objections in writing.
Upon the receipt of the special assessment roll, the council, by resolution,
shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the office of the
village clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place the council
will meet to review such special assessment roll, and shall direct the village
clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard. The notice shall be given by
publication once, at least seven days (full) prior to the date of the hearing,
in a newspaper published or circulated within the village and by first class
mail addressed to each owner of or person in interest in property to be
assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the village,
mailed at least ten days prior to the date of hearing. The hearing required by
this section may be held at any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the
council. At this meeting, all interested persons or parties shall present in
writing their objections, ifany, to the assessments against them. The assessor
shall be present at every meeting of the council at which a special assessment
is to be reviewed.
(Ord. No. 55, § 12, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-43. Changes and corrections in assessment roll.
The counciI shall meet at the time and place designated for the review of a
special assessment roll and at such meeting, or a proper adjournment ofsuch
meeting, shall consider all objections submitted in writing. The council may
correct the roll as to any special assessment or description of any lot or
parcel of land or other errors appearing in the roll; or it may, by resolution,
annul the assessment roll and direct that new proceedings be instituted. The
same proceedings shall be followed in making a new roll as in the making of the
original roll. If after hearing all objections and making a record of such
changes as the council deems justified the council determines that it is
satisfied with the special assessment roll and that assessments are in
proportion to benefits received, it shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting
such determinations, confirming such roll, placing it on file in the office
ofthe village clerk, and directing the village clerk to attach his warrant to a
certified copy of the roll within ten days, therein commanding the assessor to
spread and the treasurer to collect the various sums and amounts appearing on
the roll as directed by the council. The roll shall have the date of
confirmation endorsed on lt and shall from that date be final and conclusive
for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies unless contested in the
manner provided in chapter 8, section 34 of Public Act No.3 of 1895 (MCL 68.34,
MSA 5.1370(5», and subject to adjustment to conform to the actual cost of the
improvement, as provided in section
58-49.
(Ord. No. 55, § 13, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-44. Objection to assessment.
If at or prior to the final confirmation of any special assessments more than
50 percent of the number of owners of privately owned real property to be
assessed for an improvement, or in the case of paving or similar improvements
more than 50 percent of the number of owners of frontage to be assessed for any
such improvement shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings delineated by this article without
a five-sixth vote of the members of the council; but this section shall not
apply to sidewalk construction.
(Ord. No. 55, § 14, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-45. Special assessment; when due.
All special assessments, except such installments as the council shall make
payable at a future time as provided in this article, shall be due and payable
upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Ord. No. 55, § 15, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-46. Partial payments; when due.
The council may provide for the payment of special assessments in annual
installments. Such annual installments shall not exceed 30 in number, the first
installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on such date as the
council may determine and deferred installments being due annually thereafter,
or in the discretion of the council, may be spread upon and made a part of each
annual village tax roll thereafter until all are paid. Interest shall be
charged on all deferred installments at a rate not to exceed seven percent per
annum, commencing on the due date of the first installment, or 60 days after
the date of confirmation if the first installment is not due upon confirmation,
and payable on the due date of each subsequent installment. The full amount of
all or any deferred installments, with interest accrued to the date of payment,
may be paid in advance of its due date. If the full assessment or its first
installment shall be due upon confirmation, each property owner shall have 60
days from the date of confirmation to pay the full amount of the assessment, or
the full amount of any installments, without interest or penalty. Following the
60-day period, the assessment or its first installment shall, if unpaid, be
considered as delinquent; and the same penalties shall be collected on such
unpaid assessments or first installments as are provided by law to be collected
on delinquent general village taxes. Deferred installments shall be collected
without penalty until 60 days after their due date, after which time such
installments shall be considered as delinquent; and such penalties on the
installments shall be collected as are provided by law to be collected on
delinquent general village taxes. After the council has confirmed the roll, the
village treasurer shall notify by mail each property owner on the roll that the
roll has been filed, stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment.
Failure on the part of the village treasurer to give the notice or of such
owner to receive the notice shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of
the village or any assessment on the roll, nor excuse the payment of interest
or penalties.
(Ord. No. 55, § 16,4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-47. Delinquent special assessments.
Any assessment remaining unpaid on the first Monday of March following the date
when it became delinquent shall be reported as unpaid by the treasurer to the
council. Any such delinquent assessment, together with all accrued interest,
shall be transferred and reassessed on the next annual village tax roll in a
column headed "Special Assessment" with a penalty of four percent upon such
total amount added, and when so transferred and reassessed upon the tax roll
shall be collected in all respects as provided for the collection of village
taxes.
(Ord. No. 55, § 17, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-48. Creation of lien.
Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges on the assessments
from the date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the village
from the persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and
remain a lien upon the property assessed, ofthe same character and effect as
the lien created by general law for state, county and village taxes; and the
lands upon which the assessments are a lien shall be subject to sale, the same
as are lands upon which delinquent village taxes constitute a lien. (Ord. No.
55, § 18,4-29-1974)
State law reference-Special assessment to be lien from date of confirmation of
roll levying same, MCL 68.33, MSA 5.1370(4).
Sec. 58-49. Additional assessments, refunds.
The village clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, compile the actual cost of the improvement and
certify the cost to the assessor, who shall adjust the special assessment roll
to correspond with the cost. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary
by less than five percent, that fact shall be reported to the council, which
may place the excess in the village treasury or make a pro rata refund
according to the assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by
five percent or more, the entire excess shall be credited to owners of property
as shown by the village assessment. No refunds of special assessments may be
made that impair or contravene the provision of any outstanding obligation or
bond secured in whole or part by such special assessments. In the case of
assessments due in installments, the council may order the refund given by
credit against the installments last coming due. When any special assessment
roll shall prove insufficient to meet the cost of the improvement for which it
was made, the council may make an additional pro rata assessment; but the total
amount assessed against anyone parcel of land shall not exceed the benefits
received by that lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. No. 55, § 19, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-50. Additional procedures.
In any case where the provisions of this article may prove to be insufficient
to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the council shall
provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures required. (Ord. No. 55,
§ 20, 4-2.9-1974)
Sec. 58-51. Collection of special assessments.
If bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special assessments,
all collections of each special assessment roll or combination of rolls shall
be set in a separate fund for the payment of the principal and interest on the
bonds so issued in anticipation of the payment of such special assessments, and
shall be used for no other purpose.
(Ord. No. 55, § 21, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-52. Special assessment a=unts.
Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local improvements
shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any money borrowed
for such costs. Each special assessment account must be used only for the
improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses incidental to
the project, including the repayment of the principal and interest on money
borrowed for the project, and to refund excessive assessment, if refunds are
authorized.
(Ord. No. 55, § 22, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-53. Contested assessments.
An action may not be instituted for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the
collection of special assessment unless:
   (1)   Within 45 days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll,
written notice is given to the council indicating an intention to file such an
action and stating the grounds on which it is claimed that the assessment is
illegal; and
   (2)   The action is commenced within 90 days after the confirmation of the
roll. (Ord. No. 55, § 23, 4-29-1974)
State law reference-Similar provisions, MCL 68.34, MSA 5.1370(4).
Sec. 58-54. Reassessment for benefits.
Whenever the council shall deem any special assessment invalid or defective for
any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction shall have
adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in whole or in
part, the council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the
same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether the improvement
or any of its parts has been completed and whether any part of the assessment
has been collected or not. All proceedings on such reassessment and for its
collection shall be made in the manner as provided for the original assessment.
If any portion of the original assessment shall have been collected and not
refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment; and the reassessment shall
to that extent be deemed satisfied. If more than the amount reassessed shall
have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to the person making such
payment.
(Ord. No. 55, § 24, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-55. Combination of projects.
The council may combine several districts into one project for the purpose of
effecting a saving in the costs. There shall be established for each district
separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the project.
(Ord. No. 55, § 25, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-56. Division of parcels.
Should any lots or lands be divided after a special assessment has been
confirmed and divided into installments, the assessor shall apportion the
uncollected amounts upon the several lots and lands so divided and shall enter
the several amounts as amendments upon the special assessment roll. The village
treasurer shall, within ten days after such apportionment, send notice of such
action to the persons concerned at their last known address by first class
mail. The apportionment shall be final and conclusive on all parties unless
protest in writing is received by the village treasurer within 20 days of the
mailing of the notice.
(Ord. No. 55, § 26, 4-29-1974)
Sec. 58-57. Deferred payments of special assessments.
The council may provide for the deferred payment of special assessments from
persons who, in the opinion of the council and assessor, by reason of poverty
are unable to contribute toward the cost of the assessments. In all such cases,
as a condition to the granting of such deferred payment, the village shall
require mortgage security on the real property of the beneficiary payable on or
before his death, or, in any event, on the sale or transfer of the property.
(Ord. No. 55, § 27, 4.29.1974)
State law reference-Deferment of certain special assessments for elderly or
disabled persons, MCL 211.763, MSA 5.3536(3).
Sec. 58-58. Reconsideration of petitions.
If the council shall fail to make any public improvement petitioned for under
the provisions Of section
58-34 during the calendar year during which any petition is filed, such
petition shall be reconsidered by the council prior to March 1 of the
succeeding calendar year for the purpose of determining whether such
improvement should be made during such calendar year.
(Ord. No. 55, § 28, 4-29-1974)
***** Chapters 59-61
RESERVED *****
Chapters 59-61 RESERVED
Chapter 62
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
Article I. In General
Sec.
62-1   Placement of Drainage Structure on Public Right-of-way
Article I. Division 1. Skateboards, Rollerblades, Roller-skates, BMX Free Style
Bikes
Sec.
62-2   Intent and Purpose
Sec.
62-3    Definitions
Sec.
62-4   Penalty
Sec.
62-5   Impoundment of Skateboards, Rollerblades, Roller Skates, and BMX Style
Bikes
Sec.
62-6   Telecommunications
Secs. 62-7-62-30   Reserved
Article II. Sidewalks
Sec. 62-31   Purpose of Article
Sec. 62-32    Council Resolution
Sec.
62-33    Responsibility
Sec.
62-34    Initiation by Owner
Sec.
62-35    Notice
Sec.
62-36   Work Performed
Sec.
62-37   New Construction, Replacement, Repair
Sec.
62-38    Sidewalk Line
Sec.
62-39   Damage
Sec.
62-40   Protection
Sec.
62-41   Costs
Sec.
62-42   Safety Hazards
Sec.
62-43   Snow and Ice Removal
Sec.
62-44    Construction Standards
Sec.
62-45    Billing
Sec.
62-46   Funds
Article III. Street Lights
Sec.
62-47   Street Lights
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES§ 62.32
**** ARTICLE I, IN GENERAL ****
Sec. 62-1. Placement of drainage structure on public right-of-way.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms .and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Drainage structure means a structure that allows the passage of fluids under a
driveway or walkway or .any other way, which is placed over any portion of the
public right-of-way.
Driveway apron means that portion of a route of ingress and egress to and from
a street or road to a parcel of property, lying between the sidewalk and
street, or if no sidewalk exists, upon any portion lying upon the street or
road right-of-way.
   (b)   Approval required. Prior to placing any drainage structure on any part
of the public right-of-way within the village limits, the structure shall be
approved as to materials, length and circumference by a representative of the
department of public works. In addition, all such structures, prior to being
approved, must include a flare or flanged structure added to each end of the
drainage structure.
(Ord. No. 85, §§ 1, 2, 11-12-1984; Ord. No. 95, 6-9-1986)
Sec, 62-2
I. Intent and Purpose
This ordinance is designed to define and regulate the use of skateboards,
rollerblades and roller skates upon public property and property open to the
general public, to protect the health, safety and welfare of citizens of
Lexington, and to provide penalties for violations of this ordinance.
Sec. 62-3
IL Definitions
Skateboard: means a single platform mounted on wheels which is propelled solely
by human power and which has no mechanism or other device with which to steer
or control the direction of movement of the platform.
Rollerblade and/or Roller Skate: means small wheels on the bottom of or near
the toe and the heel of a shoe or frame that would attach to a shoe, which are
used for gliding on a hard surface such as a floor, sidewalk, etc., including
what are commonly known as roller blades and/or roller skates.
BMX-Freestyle Bikes. Smaller bikes with 20 inch wheels used for trick riding
and stunts.
Sec. 62-4
III. Regulated Activities
   (a)   Use or operation of skateboards, rollerblade, roller skates and bmx-
freestyle bikes are not permitted on any bench, table, planter, wall, retaining
wall, or other device or structure which is not intended for pedestrian or
vehicle traffic. It is further prohibited to jump or step off such devices or
structures while in the process of using or operating a skateboard,
rollerblades and/or roller skates.
   (b)   Use or operation of a skateboard, rollerblades roller skate and bmx-
freestyle bikes in a reckless or careless manner that could reasonably cause
harm to others or damage to property is prohibited.
   (c)   Any person using or operating a skateboard, rollerblades, roller
skates and bmx-freestyle bikes on commercial property must first obtain the
written permission of the owner of such property and must carry said written
permission on his or her person at all times while using or operating a
skateboard on such property. It shall be a violation of this section for any
person not to produce said written permission, upon the request of any police
officer.
   (d)   Use or operation of a skateboard, rollerblades, roller skates and bmx-
freestyle bikes upon the surface of the tennis courts and basketball courts at
Tierney Park and Lester Street Park as well as any surface at the Lexington
Municipal Mobile Home Park is prohibited.
   (e)   Skateboard, rollerblade, roller skate and bmx-freestyle bikes
operators on all sidewalks or roadways shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (f)   Skateboarding, rollerblading, roller skating and bmx-freestyle biking
is not permitted on Huron Avenue or its adjacent sidewalks and public parking
lots, between Main Street and Lake Huron
Sec. 62-5
IV.Penalty
Any person who violates this ordinance shall be responsible for a Grade A
municipal civil infraction and subject to the fines as determined by the
Village of Lexington Council in Resolution.
Sec. 62-6
V. Impoundment of Skateboards, Rollerblades, Roller Skates and Bmx-Freestyle
bikes
A police officer may impound the skateboard, rollerblades, roller skates and
bmx-freestyle bikes hold the same until the Municipal Civil Infraction is paid
or adjudicated.
A law enforcement officer apprehending a person for violating this article may
impound the skateboard, rollerblades, roller skates and bmx-freestyle bikes for
7 days. If a person is 18 years of age or older the skateboard, rollerblades
and/or roller skates shall be released by the Police Department if the accused
appears at the Police Department and provides proper identification. To obtain
a release of skateboard, rollerblades, roller skates and bmx-freestyle bikes a
person under the age of 18 years of age must appear at the Police Department
with a parent or guardian. Law enforcement officers shall also have the right
to impound as evidence any skateboard, rollerblades, roller skates and bmx-
freestyle bikes that are used contrary to this article, pending prosecution of
such alleged violation of this article.
VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO: #2003-001
THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON ORDAINS:
Sec. 1 Purpose.
The purposes of this ordinance are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of- way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public Nalth, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of- way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002) ("Act") and other
applicable law, and to ensure that the Village qualifies for distributions
under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with the
Act.
Sec. 2 Conflict
Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
Sec.3 Terms Defined
The terms used in this ordinance shall have the following meanings:
Act means the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of2002), as amended from time to time. 1
Village means the Village of Lexington.
Village Council means the Village Council of the Village of Lexington or its
designee. This Section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Village Council.
Village Manager means the Village Manager or his or her designee.
Permit means a non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
ordinance to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in
the Village for its telecommunications facilities.
All other terms used in this ordinance shall have the same meaning as defined
or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
Authoritymeans the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
MPSCmeans the Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term "Commission"
in the Act.
Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
Public Right-of-Way means the area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. Public right-of-way does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
Telecommunication Facilities or Facilities means the equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
Telecommunication facilities or facilities do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in section 332(d) of part I of title III
of the communications act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064,47 U.S.C. 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, and service
provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
Telecommunications Provide0 Provider and Telecommunications Services mean those
terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan telecommunications act, 1991 PA
179, MCL 484.2102. Telecommunication provider does not include a person or an
affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile
radio service as defined in Section 332(d) of part I of the communications act
of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064,47 U.S.C. 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or service provided by any
wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of the Act and this
ordinance only, a provider also includes all of the following:
   (a)   .A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way..
   (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
Sec. 4 Permit Required.
   (a)   Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
Village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this ordinance.
   (b)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the Village Clerk. Upon receipt, the Village Clerk shall make copies of the
application and distribute a copy to the Village Manager and the Utilities
Manager. Applications shall be complete and include all information required by
the Act, including without limitation a route map showing the location of the
provider's existing and proposed facilities in accordance with Section 6(5) of
the Act.  2
   (c)   Confidential Information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA.442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246,
pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (d)   Application Fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of$500.00 .
   (e)   Additional Information. The Village Manager may request an applicant
to submit such additional information which the Village Manager deems
reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such
requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the Village Manager. If the Village and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the Village, the Village or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided
in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (f)   Previously Issued Permits. Pursuant to Section 5( 1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the Village under Section 251 of
the Michigan telecommunications act, 1991 PA 179, MCL 484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the Village to telecommunications providers
prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan telecommunications
act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this ordinance.
   (g)   Existing Providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of way in the Village as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization pr a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan telecommunications act, 1991 PA 179, MCL 484.2251,
shall submit to the Village an application for a permit in accordance with the
requirements of this ordinance. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this subsection is
not required to pay the $500.00 application fee required under subsection (d)
above. A provider under this subsection shall be given up to an additional 180
days to submit the pennit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided
in Section 5(4) of the Act.
Sec. 5 Issuance of Permit.
   (a)   Approval or Denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Manager. Pursuant to Section 15
(3) of the Act, the Village Manager shall approve or deny an application for a
permit within forty-five (45) days from the date a telecommunications provider
files an application for a permit under Section 4(b) of this ordinance for
access to a public right-of-way within the Village. Pursuant to Section 6(6) of
the Act, the Village Manager shall notify the MPSC when the Village Manager has
granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the date on which
the application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied.
The Village Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (b)   Form of Permit If an application for permit is approved, the Village
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1),
6(2) and 15 of the Act. 3
   (c)   Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the Village Manager
may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (d)   Bond Requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on subsection ( c) above, the Village Manager may require that a
bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.
If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost.to ensure that
the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after
the telecommunications provider's access and use.
Sec. 6 Construction/Engineering Permit.
A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the Village without first
obtaining a construction or engineering permit as required under chapter 50 of
this Code, as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee
shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit. .
Sec. 7 Conduit or Utility Poles.
Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or underthis ordinance does not give a
telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
Sec. 8 Route Maps.
Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the Village, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
Village. The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the MPSC
determines otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
Sec. 9 Repair of Damage,
Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking
an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities
within a public right-ofway or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in
the Village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done
to the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
Sec. 10 Establishment and Payment of Maintenance Fee.
In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the Village set forth
in subsection 4( d) above, a telecommunications provider with
telecommunications facilities in the Village's public rights-of-way shall pay
an annual maintenance fee to the Authority pursuant to Section 8 ofthe Act.
Sec. 11 Modification of Existing Fees.
In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(1) of the Act, the Village
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1,2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4)
of the Act, the Village also hereby approves modification of the fees of
providers with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the
Village's boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required
under Section 8 of the Act. The Village shall provide each telecommunications
provider affected by the fee with a copy of this ordinance, iii compliance with
the requirement of Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the Village's policy and intent, and upon
application by a provider or discovery by the Village, shall be promptly'
refunded as having been charged in error .
Sec. 12 Savings Clause.
Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under Section 11 above
shall be void from the date the modification was made.
Sec. 13 Use of Funds.
Pursuant to Section 1 0(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the Village from
the Authority shall be used by the Village solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the
Village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the Village under Act No. 51 of the Public
Acts of 1951.
Sec. 14 Annual Report.
Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the Village Manager shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
Sec. 15 Cable Television Operators.
Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the Village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or .seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy
an obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of
this Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
Sec. 16 Existing Rights.
Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this ordinance shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the Village may have under a permit issued by
the Village or under a contract between the Village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of- way.
Sec. 17 Compliance.
The Village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
ordinance is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the
provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose. The Village shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
   (a)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976
PA: 442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in Section 4(c) of this ordinance;
   (b)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with Section 4(f) of this ordinance;
   (c)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with Section 4(g) of this ordinance;
   (d)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within forty-five
(45) days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for
a permit for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the Village,
in accordance with Section 5(a) of this ordinance;
   (e)   Notifying the MPSC when the Village has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with Section 5(a) of this ordinance;
   (f)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with Section S(a) of this ordinance;
   (g)   ', Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in Section S(b) of this
ordinance;
   (h)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with Section S(c) of this ordinance;
   (i)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with Section 5(d) of this ordinance;
   (j)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with Section 6 of this
ordinance;
   (k)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the Village's
right-of way fees with a copy of this ordinance, in accordance with Section 11
of this ordinance;
   (I)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with
Section 14 of this ordinance; and
   (m)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees., in accordance with Section 15 of this ordinance.
Sec. 18 Reservation of Police Powers.
Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this ordinance shall not limit the
Village's right to review and approve a telecommunication provider's access to
and ongoing use of a public right of-way or limit the Village's authority to
ensure and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Sec. 19 Severability.
The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and clauses of this
ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence,
paragraph, section, or clause of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or
invalid by a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 20 Authorized Village Officials.
The Village Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized Village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations for
violations under this ordinance as provided by the Village Code.
Sec. 21 Municipal Civil Infraction.
A person who violates any provision of this ordinance or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
shall be subject to a Grade D Violation. Nothing in this Section 21 shall be
construed to limit the remedies available to the Village in the event of a
violation by a person of this ordinance or a permit.
Sec. 22 Repealer.
   (a)   All ordinances and portions of ordinances inconsistent with this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
Secs. 62-2 62-30. Reserved.
 
Notes
1 1 A copy of the Act can be obtained on the internet at http://
  www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc!commlrightofway/. rightofway.htm.
  A copy of the application form as approved by the Commission can be obtained
2 on the internet athttp://www.cis.state.mi.us1mpsc/comm/rightofway/
  rightofway.htm..
  3 Copies of the permit forms currently approved by the MPSC can be obtained
3 on the internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/commlrightofway/
  rightofway.htm.
**** ARTICLE II. SIDEWALKS ****
It is the intent and purpose of this article to:
   (1)   Establish guidelines and standards for sidewalk construction, repairs
and replace-ments;
   (2)   Eliminate safety hazards;
   (3)   Establish responsibilities and controls; and
   (4)   Establish a sidewalk building program for the village. (Ord. No. 50, §
1,3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-62 Council resolution.
The Village council shall by resolution declare the intention of the village to
make sidewalk improvements.
(Ord. No. 50, §2, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-33. Responsibility.
   (a)   The village council shall determine the necessity for the
construction, replacement, maintenance and repair of any and all sidewalks
within the limits of the village, and shall pass the necessary resolutions to
effect the same.
   (b)   The public works department shall supervise all sidewalk construction,
replacement and repair and shall be responsible for the scheduling of such
work.
(Ord. No. 50, § 3, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-34. Initiation by owner.
Whenever any person whose property abuts or adjoins a sidewalk deems it in need
of repair or replacement, or whenever such person desires the construction of a
sidewalk adjoining his property that adjoins a public street, a petition may be
presented to the village council in person or in writing expressing the desires
of the petitioner to have the sidewalk constructed, repaired or replaced.
(Ord. No. 50, § 4, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-35. Notice.
   (a)   Whenever the village council shall determine that a sidewalk is to be
constructed, repaired or replaced, the village clerk shall give notice to the
owner of the abutting and adjoining premises.
   (b)   Wherever notice is to be served, such notice shall be served as
follows:
      (1)   By delivery of a copy of the notice to the owner or by leaving the
notice at his residence;
      (2)   By mailing a copy of the notice to the owner at his last known
address; or
      (3)   If the owner is unknown or cannot be served, by posting a copy of
the notice in some conspicuous place on the premises for a period of five days.
(Ord. No. 50, § 5, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-36. Work performed
All sidewalks shall be constructed, rebuilt or repaired in one of the following
manners, as shall be determined by the village council:
   (1)   By the department of public works by direct employment of labor and
purchase of materials.
   (2)   By a qualified contractor or sidewalk builder.
   (3)   By the owner of property adjacent to a sidewalk that is to be
constructed or repaired. Repairs or construction by any property owner or his
agent without prior approval and authorization will be at the property owner's
own expense, and no portion of the costs will be accepted by the village. (Ord.
No. 50, § 6, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-37. New construction, replacement, repair.
The cost of sidewalks built new, rebuilt or repaired, except in new
subdivisions, shall be borne 50 percent by the landowner and 50 percent by the
village.
(Ord. No. 50, § 7, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-38. Sidewalk line.
Sidewalks shall be constructed in the public streets adjacent to and abutting
upon lots in the village upon such lines and grades as the council or
department of public works shall direct.
(Ord. No. SO,§ 9, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-39. Damage.
   (a)   No person shall tear up, remove or encumber any sidewalk or crosswalk
without first obtaining authorization from the department of public works or
the council.
   (b)   Should any sidewalk be damaged or destroyed through the acts of any
person, or should the construction or alteration of a building necessitate the
changing of the grade of any existing sidewalk, the full cost of such repairs,
replacement or changing of grade shall be charged to and assessed against the
party responsible for the damage or those requesting changes.
(Ord. No, SO, § 10, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-40. Protection.
Whenever any sidewalk is left in such condition as to obstruct or be dangerous
to public travel, and shall be permitted to remain in such condition during the
whole or any part of the night, the person responsible for the unsafe condition
shall place a suitable number of lights on or about the area to indicate the
location and extent of the obstruction.
(Ord. No, 50, § 11, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-41. Costs.
All charges under this article will be billed as labor and material. Costs to
be considered will be:
   (1)   Material.
   (2)   Total labor and associated costs as follows:
      a.   Labor.
      b.   Clerical, supervision, consultants and billing.
      c.   Vehicle, equipment, and tool expense.
(Ord. No. 50, § 12,3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-42. Safety hazards.
Whenever any sidewalk or portion of a sidewalk becomes dangerous or unsafe to
pedestrian traffic, or in such condition as to constitute a hazard to the
safety of the public, the public works department shall be authorized to tear
up and remove the dangerous and unsafe portions and to replace the portions
with earth, gravel or cinders, or to make permanent repairs to the sidewalk so
as to render it safe.
Section 62-43. Snow and ice removal.
   (a)   The owner of property abutting or adjoining a sidewalk shall keep the
sidewalk clear of obstructions, dirt, debris, snow and ice. Snow and ice shall
be removed from sidewalks as soon as practical, but not later than 24 hours
after snowfall or freezing moisture, so that such sidewalk shall be safe for
public travel.
   (b)   All sidewalks... as previously stated.
   (c)   All sidewalks... as previously stated.
   (d)   No person shall place or pile snow on a public sidewalk.
   (e)   All shoveled snow is to be placed in an area that does not impede
pedestrian or vehicle traffic flow.
   (f)   The Village shall designate high profile pedestrian walkways and
provide snow removal services for those named sidewalks. The sidewalks subject
to designation are located in the Central Business District and along major
streets as defined by Public Act 51.
   (g)   Seasonal residents or persons not able to keep their sidewalks free of
ice and snow as stated in subsection (a) of this section shall arrange for said
maintenance.
   (h)   Unless a resident contributes to a hazardous condition or knowingly
allows a hazardous situation to continue, a warning for not shoveling a
sidewalk as required in subsection (a) will be issued rather than a civil fine.
   (i)   A violation of this section is a Grade B civil infraction.
Sec. 62-44. Construction standards.
   (a)   Sidewalks shall be no less than four inches in thickness, and sidewalk
that crosses existing or proposed driveways or roadways shall be no less than
six inches in thickness. Sidewalks shall be four feet in width.
   (b)   All sidewalks shall be laid on a firm, well-compacted subgrade of
cinders or earth free from vegetable matter or refuse.
   (c)   All sidewalks shall be upon such grade as directed by the public works
department or the council, and sidewalks shall be of good quality concrete.
(Ord. No. 50, § 15, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-45. Billing.
The village clerk will be responsible for billing and collection in each case.
On March 1 of each year, the council shall cause all outstanding accounts to be
assessed and levied against the adjacent property as a special tax and shall be
collected in the same manner as other village taxes.
(Ord. No. 50, § 16, 3-2-1970)
Sec. 62-46. Funds.
The village council shall be responsible to provide funds for the
implementation of a sidewalk program, and such funds shall be provided in the
village budget. The amount budgeted will be determined by the council.
(Ord. No. 50, § 17, 3-2-1970)
**** ARTICLE III -Street Lights ****
Sec. 62-47. Street Lights
   I.   All village streets shall be illuminated with street lights.
   II.   The village will use the services of Detroit Edison for street
lighting design. New areas of installation will utilize Detroit Edison's Design
and Installation Program. Through this program usage expense for the first
three years is subtracted from the cost of the fixtures and installation. A
shared cost agreement between the developer, residents, and village is required
prior to installation. Thereafter, the village will be responsible for lighting
and maintenance costs.
   III.   Mercury vapor lights are the preferred lighting fixture. Any
alternative must be approved by the village prior to installation.
   IV.   Prior to the dedication of a private street to the village, the street
shall be illuminated with street lights pursuant to Detroit Edison criteria or
enrolled in Detroit Edison's Design and Installation Program.
   V.   For streets dedicated to the village prior to April 1, 2003, the
Village will arrange for street light design and will pay for all lighting and
installation costs.
   VI.   Developers designing new developments may seek Council approval for
alternative lighting solutions that produce equivalent results.
Chapter 63
LAND DIVISIONS AND SUBDIVISIONS
Article I. Division of Unplatted Lands
Sec.
63-1   Purpose
Sec.
63-2   Definitions
Sec.
63-3   Prior Approval Requirements
Sec.
63-4   Application for Approval
Sec.
63-5   Procedure for Review of Applications
Sec.
63-6   Standards for Approval
Sec.
63-7   Consequences of Noncompliance with Approval Requirement
Sec.
63-8   Penalty for Violations
Secs.
63-9-63-30 Reserved
VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON
SANILAC COUNTY, MICHIGAN
ORDINANCE # 63: 1-8
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON TO ADD
PROVISIONS REGULATING THE DIVISION OF UNPLATTED LANDS, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON ORDAINS:
ARTICLE 1: PURPOSE
The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend the Code of Ordinances to include
provisions regulating the division of unplatted lands.
ARTICLE 2: AMENDMENT
The Code of Ordinances is, hereby amended by adding the following:
CHAPTER 63. LAND DIVISIONS AND SUBDIVISIONS
**** ARTICLE I. DIVISION OF UNPLATTED LANDS ****
Sec. 63-1. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State land
Division Act (Public Act No. 288 of 1967 (MCL 560.101 et seq.) formerly known
as the Subdivision Control Act) to prevent the creation of parcels of property
which do not comply with applicable ordinances and with the act to minimize
potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly development of the community
and otherwise provide for the health, safety and welfare of the residents and
property owners of the Village by establishing reasonable standards for prior
review and approval of land divisions within the Village.
Sec. 63-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section1 except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means a natural person, firm, association, partnership corporation or
combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land, whether
recorded or not.
Divide and division mean the partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his heirs, executors, administrators,
legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose of sale or lease
of more than one year, or of building development that results in one or more
parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies the
requirements of sections 108 and 109 of the State land Division Act. The terms
"divide" and "division" do not include a property transfer between two or more
adjacent parcels, if the property taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent
parcel; and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless
the parcel conforms to the requirements of the State land Division Act, or the
requirements of other applicable village ordinances.
Exempt split and exempt division mean the partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent. For a
property transfer between 2 or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken
from 1 parcel is added to an adjacent parcel, any resulting parcel shall not be
considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the requirements of
the State land Division Act or the requirements of this article.
Forty acres or the equivalent means either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
State Land Division Act means Public Act No. 288 of 1967 (MCL 560.101 et seq.).
Sec. 63-3. Prior approval requirement
Land in the village shall not be divided without the prior review and approval
of the Zoning Administrator in accordance with this chapter and the State land
Division Act, provided that the following shall be exempted from this
requirement:
   (a)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the Article II of this Chapter and the State land Division Act.
   (b)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
Article II of this Chapter and the State land Division Act.
   (c)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter, or other partitioning or
splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not accessible
and the parcel was in existence on March 31, 1997, or resulted from exempt
splitting under the State land Division Act.
Sec. 63-4. Application for approval.
An applicant for land division approval shall file all of the following with
the Zoning Administrator for review and approval of a proposed land division
before making any division either by deed, land contract, lease for more than
one year, or for building development:
Five (5) copies of the following:
   (a)   A completed application form provided by the village.
   (b)   A survey of the proposed division prepared by a registered surveyor in
the state, .except that, in cases where all of the parcels to be created are
greater than ten acres each, a tentative parcel map drawn to scale may be
submitted in lieu of a survey. The surveyor tentative parcel map shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and surveyor, if applicable.
      (2)   The date of the surveyor date that the tentative parcel map was
prepared, north arrow and scale.
      (3)   Boundary lines and acreage of the parcel to be divided, including
boundary lines and acreage of the entire parent parcel.
      (4)   Names of all streets, rights-of-way and roadway widths of all
existing and propGsed streets within and/or adjacent to the parcel proposed to
be divided.
      (5)   All existing structures (including their distance from existing and
proposed property lines sufficient to demonstrate compliance with zoning
setback requirements) and physical features which would influence the layout
and design of the proposed division,
      (6)   The location, width and purpose of any and all easements.
      (7)   An accurate legal description of each proposed division.
   (c)   The Zoning Administrator may waive the survey requirement above in
cases where a tentative parcel map is deemed to contain adequate information to
approve a proposed land division considering the size, simple nature of the
divisions, and the undeveloped character of the territory within which the
proposed divisions are located. An accurate and adequate legal description of
all the proposed divisions, however, shall at all times be required.
   (d)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided.
   (e)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
Article have been met.
   (f)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part sufficient to establish if the parcel to
be divided was lawfully in existence as of March 31, 1997, the effective date
of the State Land Division Act.
   (g)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer.
   (h)   A review fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of
the Village Council for land division reviews pursuant to this chapter to cover
the costs of review of the application and administration of this chapter and
the State land Division Act. If review of the application by the Village
Planner is deemed necessary as set forth in Section
63-5(b) below, the cost of such review shall be borne by the applicant.
Sec. 63-5. Procedure for review of applications.
   (a)   Upon receipt of a land division application package, the Zoning
Administrator shall forward a copy of the package to the Assessor for the
Village. The Zoning Administrator shall approve; approve with reasonable
conditions to ensure compliance with applicable ordinances and the protection
of public health, safety and general welfare; or disapprove the land division
applied for within 45 days after receipt of the application package conforming
to the requirements of this article, and shall promptly notify the applicant of
the decisions and the reasons for denial. If the application package does not
conform to this article and the land division act, the Zoning Administrator
shall return the package to the applicant for completion and refiling in
accordance with this article and the land division act.
   (b)   Prior to acting on an application for land division approval, the
application may be submitted to the Village Planner for review and
recommendation.
   (c)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the Zoning Administrator's decision
may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the land Division
Appeals Board, which is hereby created. The Board shall consist of the
following members:
      (1)   The Chair of the Village Planning Commission;
      (2)   The Village President;
      (3)   The Assessor for the Village.
Business shall be conducted at a public meeting with public notice of the time,
date, and place of a regular or special meeting as required by Public Act No.
267 of 1976 (MCL 15.261 et seq.). An affirmative vote of not less than two
members shall be necessary to reverse a decision of the Zoning Administrator or
designee. The Board shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and Secretary
from among its members. The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for the
transaction of its business and shall keep a written record of its proceedings,
transactions, resolutions, findings and determinations. The land Division
Appeals Board shall consider and resolve such appeal at its next regular
meeting or session affording sufficient time for a 20-day written notice to the
applicant (and appellant where other than the applicant) of the time and date
of the meeting and appellant hearing.
   (d)   The Assessor for the Village shall maintain an official record of all
approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (e)   Approved land divisions shall be recognized by the Assessor for the
Village and placed on the assessment roll in the year immediately following the
year of approval except for those land divisions approved on or before the
first Monday in March, which, with written request, may be placed on the
immediately ensuing assessment roll in the year approved.
   (f)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances and regulations.
   (g)   The Village and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcels
are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a statement
to this effect.
Sec. 63-6. Standards for approval.
A proposed land division reviewable by the Zoning Administrator shall be
approved if the following criteria are met:
   (a)   All parcels created by the proposed division have a minimum width as
otherwise required by the Village Zoning Ordinance for the applicable zoning
district.
   (b)   All such parcels contain a minimum area as otherwise required by the
Village Zoning Ordinance for the applicable zoning district.
   (c)   All parcels created and remaining have frontage on a public street for
the required width of the parcel as set forth in Section
4.3.2.2 of the Village Zoning Ordinance.
   (d)   All parcels created and remaining have adequate easements for public
utilities.
   (e)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division does
not exceed a four-to-one ratio, except that this shall not apply to the
remainder of the parent parcel or parent tract retained by the proprietor. The
depth of a parcel created by the division shall be measured within the
boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-of-way to the most
remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of commencement of the
measurement.
   (f)   The proposed land division complies with all requirements of this
chapter, the Village Zoning Ordinance, and the State Land Division Act.
Sec. 63-7. Consequences of noncompliance with approval requirement.
   (a)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the tax roll and no construction
thereon which requires the prior issuance of a construction or building permit
shall be allowed. The village shall further have the authority to initiate
injunctive or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any
violation of this chapter.
   (b)   An unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of
the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefore, together with any damages
sustained by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
Sec. 63-8. Penalty for violation.
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this article
shall be deemed responsible for committing a municipal civil infraction.
Secs. 63-9-63-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE 3: REPEAL
All ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE
Public hearing having been held here on by the Planning Commission on August 4,
2008, this ordinance shall become effective upon publication, pursuant to
Chapter VI, Section 1, Act 3 of the Public Acts of 1895, as amended.
SECTION 5: INSPECTION OF ORDINANCE
A copy of this Ordinance may be inspected or purchased at the Village Hall,
7227 Huron Ave., Suite 100, Lexington, MI 48450, during regular posted office
hours.
SECTION 6: ADOPTION
Made and passed by the Village Council of the Village of Lexington, Sanilac
County, Michigan, on this 25th day of August, 2008. A.D.
Land Division Ordinance Adopted 10/31/2009 page 6
Chapter 64
Engineering Design and Construction Standards
Article I. Introduction
Sec.
64-1   Short Title
Sec.
64-2   Purpose
Sec.
64-3   Procedures
Sec.
64-4    Certification
Sec.
64-5    Exceptions
Sec.
64-6   Conflicts
Sec.
64-7   Rules Applying to Text
Sec.
64-8   Conformance with Applicable Standards
Secs. 64-9-64-10    Reserved
Article II. Definitions
Sec.
64-11   Definitions
Article III. General Requirement and Submittals
Sec.
64-12   General Requirements and Submittals
Sec.
64-13    Submittal Requirements
Article IV. Grading
Sec.
64-14    Requirements for Master Grading Plans
Sec.
64-15    Roads and Paving
Article V. Roads and Paving
Sec.
64-16    Plans and Specifications, Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-17    Plans and Specification; General Content
Sec.
64-18   Paving Requirements for Public Roads and Streets within Platted
Subdivisions or within Site Condominium Subdivisions
Sec.
64-19   Paving Requirements for Public Roads and Streets not located within
Platted Subdivisions or Site Condominium Subdivisions
Sec.
64-20   Paving Requirements for Existing Private Roads for the Purpose of
Dedication to the Public
Article VI. Parking Lots
Sec.
64-21    Plans and Specifications-Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-22    Plans and Specifications-Design Criteria
Sec.
64-23    Parking Lot Lighting
Article VII. Driveways, Sidewalks, and Bike Paths
Sec.
64-24   Plans and Specifications-Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-25   Plans and Specifications-Design Criteria for Driveways
Sec.
64-26    Plans and Specifications-Design Criteria for sidewalks
Sec.
64-27    Materials
Article VIII. Water Distribution System
Sec.
64-28   Plans and Specifications-Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-29   Plans and Specifications-General Design Considerations
Sec.
64-30    Benchmarks and Elevations
Sec.
64-31   Soil Conditions
Sec.
64-32   Location and Layout
Sec.
64-33   Directional Boring or Bore and Jack
Sec.
64-34    Easements
Sec.
64-35   Pipe Sizes
Sec.
64-36    Pipe Materials
Sec.
64-37   Gate Valves-Location
Sec.
64-38    Gate Valves
Sec.
64-39   Fire Hydrants
Sec.
64-40    Pipe Restraints
Sec.
64-41    Services
Sec.
64-42   Fire Protection Lines
Sec.
64-43    Acceptance of Utilities
Article IX. Sanitary Sewers System
Sec.
64-44   Plans and Specifications-Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-45   Plans and Specifications-Design Consideration: General
Sec.
64-46    Plan and Profile Sheets
Sec.
64-47   Location of Sanitary Sewers
Sec.
64-48    Easements
Sec.
64-49   Drop Connection
Sec.
64-50   Directional Boring and Bore & Jack
Sec.
64-51    Extensions and Future Connections
Sec.
64-52    Manhole Locations
Sec.
64-53   Hydraulic Calculations
Sec.
64-54   Allowances for Changes in Pipe Size
Sec.
64-55    Building Sewers
Sec.
64-56   Sewer Capacity Design
Sec.
64-57    Acceptance of Utilities
Article X. Storm Water Drainage Systems
Sec.
64-58   Plans and Specifications-Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-59   Plans and Specifications-Design Consideration: General
Sec.
64-60    Plans and Profile-General
Sec.
64-61   Plan View
Sec.
64-62    Profile View
Sec.
64-63   Location of sewers
Sec.
64-64   Catch basin and inlets shall be located, in general
Sec.
64-65    Catch basin and inlets shall be located, in general
Sec.
64-66    Covers for manholes, catch basins, and inlets
Sec.
64-67   Hydraulics
Sec,
64-68   Open drains
Sec.
64-69   End section and bar screens
Sec.
64-70    Acceptance of Utilities
Article XI. Storm Water Detention and Retention Facilities
Sec.
64-71   Plans and Specifications -Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-72    Design Criteria
Sec.
64-73   Maintenance Agreement
Sec.
64-74    Easements and Access
Sec.
64-75    Acceptance of Utilities
Article XII. Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
Sec.
64-76   Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-77    Plan Requirements
Sec.
64-78    Notes
Sec.
64-79   Principles of Erosion and Sediment Control
Sec.
64-80    Engineering Design Standards
Article XIII. Landscaping Establishment and Restoration Standards
Sec.
64-81   Plans and Specifications-Submittal Procedure
Sec.
64-82   Plans and Specifications-Design Consideration: General
Sec.
64-83    Quality Assurance
Sec.
64-84   Delivery, Storage, and Handling
Sec.
64-85    Project Conditions
Sec.
64-86    Seeding and Topsoil
Sec.
64-87    Trees and Shrubs
Sec.
64-88    Finish Grading
Sec.
64-89   Preparation of Seeded Lawn Areas
Sec.
64-90    Preparation
Sec.
64-91   Cleaning
Sec.
64-92   Installation
Sec.
64-93   Mulching or hydroseeding
Sec.
64-94   Lawn establishment
Sec.
64-95   Installation
Article XIII. Violations and Penalties
Sec.
64-96   Violations and penalties
VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON
SANILAC COUNTY, MICHIGAN
ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 64 ARTICLE 1
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON TO
ESTABLISH MINIMUM ENGINEERING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR GRADING AND
SURFACE DRAINAGE, ROADS, STREETS AND PAVING, PARKING LOTS AND DRIVEWAYS, BIKE
PATHS, WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS, SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS, STORM SEWER SYSTEMS, STORM
WATER DETENTION/RETENTION BASINS, AND OTHER ENGINEERING IMPROVEMENTS FOR SITE
PLAN, SUBDIVISION, AND CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
THE VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON ORDAINS:
ARTICLE 1: AMENDMENT
The Code of Ordinances is, hereby, amended by adding the following:
CHAPTER 64, ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
**** ARTICLE I. INTRODUCTION ****
Sec, 64-1. Short Title.
This ordinance shall be known as the 'Village of Lexington Engineering and
Construction Standards Ordinance" and shall hereinafter be referred to as
"Engineering and Construction Standards".
Sec. 64-2. Purpose.
The purpose of these Standards shall be to establish the minimum design and
construction standards for: streets, paving and grading, surface drainage,
parking lots and driveways, bike paths, water supply systems, sanitary sewer
systems, storm sewer systems, storm water detention/retention basins and other
engineering improvements for site plan, subdivision and condominium development
plans and standards for accepting the dedication of pre-existing roads and
streets to the village.
Sec, 64-3. Procedures.
Procedures shall be in accordance with
Chapter 63, Article II, Subdivision Control, of the Village of Lexington Code
of Ordinances, the Village of Lexington Village of Lexington Zoning Ordinance,
and the State of Michigan Subdivision Control Act, being Act 288 of P.A. of
1967, as amended.
Sec, 64-4. Certification.
All subdivisions, condominiums, site plans, and utility plans submitted to the
Village of Lexington for review shall bear the signature and seal of a
registered professional civil engineer, according to Public Act 299 of 1980,
and currently registered to practice in the State of Michigan under whose
supervision the plans were prepared.
Sec.64-5. Exceptions.
Exceptions to these standards may be permitted provided, in the opinion of the
Municipal Engineer, the substitute design is equal to or better than the
requirements established by these standards.
Sec. 64-6. Conflicts.
In the event that a difference of opinion shall arise between the Municipal
Engineer and/or the developer or the developer's engineer, the Village of
Lexington and the Municipal Engineer shall prevail in resolving the conflict.
Sec. 64-7. Rules applying to text.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the following rules of construction apply:
   (a)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and in the
singular include the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (b)   The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
   (c)   The word or term not interpreted or defined by this Article shall be
used with a meaning of common or standard utilization.
Section 64-8. Conformance with applicable standards.
All items and installation shall be reviewed by the Municipal Engineer and
certified as to conformance with the standards of this ordinance and other
applicable laws, rules, regulations and adopted standards.
Sections 64-9-64-10. Reserved
**** ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS ****
Section 64-11. Definitions.
The following is a list of words and phrases defined for the purpose of their
use in interpretation of the Engineering and Construction Standards. These
definitions shall apply in the interpretation, administration, and enforcement
of the Engineering and Construction Standards. Words and phrases not
specifically defined shall rely on their definition in the: Village of
Lexington Zoning Ordinance; Chapter 63, Article II, Subdivision Control, of the
Village of Lexington Code of Ordinances; and the Village of Lexington Master
Plan.
•   sHTO"shall mean the "American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials" policy manual.
''A//ey"shall mean any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
"American Water Works Association" or "AWWA" shall mean nonprofit scientific
and educational society dedicated to the improvement of water quality and
supply. AWWA has developed the industry standards that govern the operations of
community tap water providers throughout the world.
''American National Standards Institute" or ''ANSI" shall mean that national
standards setting organization.
"Building Service Storm Sewer {'{'}Drainage Water{'}'}" shall mean any drainage
water pipe extension from a building foundation drain outlet of a building or
dwelling unit to a public storm water drain.
"Building Service Sanitary Sewer (Wastewater)" shall mean the sewer extension
from a building wastewater outlet of a building or a dwelling unit to the
Customer Wastewater Disposal Outlet.
"BuHding Service Water Supply" shall mean any water supply mains, pipes,
services, and/or appurtenances, except meters, that extend from a point of
connection with the building water pipe of a building or a dwelling unit the
Customer Water Supply Outlet.
"Customer Wastewater Disposal Outlet' shall mean the point of connection to the
public sanitary sewer main.
"Customer Water Supply Outlet" shall mean either the outlet on the customer
side of a "stop valve (curb stop)" near the public easement or public right of
way (in the case of a supply for a single building) or on the customer side of
a master water meter where the village has allowed the use of a master water
meter to serve special types of customers.
"Engineering and Construction Standards" are the applicable standards relevant
to the planning, design and construction of infrastructure improvements within
the Village, as adopted and contained in the Village's Engineering and
Construction Standards.
The Village, as adopted and contained in the Village's Engineering and
Construction Standards.
"Development" or "Developer's Project" or ''Project' shall mean a specifically
designated site being developed (or proposed for development) by a developer.
"Ditch" or ''Drainage Swale" shall mean an open channel used to transport
water, groundwater, surface water run-off, or drainage water from any source.
"Drainage Facilities" or "Drainage Water Facilities' shall mean any storm
sewers, lakes, ponds, streams, rivers, or storm drains, including facilities
designated as County Drains, that receive water from lands owned by more than
one Owner.
"Dwelling Unit" A dwelling unit is any house or building or portion thereof
having cooking facilities which is occupied wholly as the home, residence or
sleeping place of one (1) family, either permanently or transiently, and placed
on a permanent foundation, but in no case shall a travel trailer, automobile
chassis, tent or portable building be considered a dwelling. In case of mixed
occupancy where a building is occupied in part as a dwelling unit, the part so
occupied shall be deemed a dwelling unit for the purpose of this Ordinance and
shall comply with the provisions thereof relative to dwellings.
"Easement" shall mean a grant by the owner of the use of land by the public, a
corporation, or persons, for specific uses and purposes, to be designated as a
"public" easement or a "private" easement depending on the nature of the use.
"Engineer" is the Village's Engineer or other Village Officer, Employee or
Agent acting on behalf of the Village in the administration of the Village's
Engineering and Construction Standards.
"Foundation Drain Service Pipe' shall mean a conveyance pipe that receives only
foundation drain groundwater seepage, exclusive of directly and intentionally
introduced surface water runoff.
"Factory Mutual" or "FM' shall mean that national standards setting
organization in Third- Party Certification of Property Loss Prevention Products
and Services.
"Land Developer" or "Developer' shall mean a person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or any other legal entity who intends to develop land
by making various improvements to the land as described under "Site
Improvements".
"Land Development" or "The Development of Land' shall mean the reshaping of the
land environment to provide for the elements or amenities associated with
community living. Items considered as these elements or amenities include any
of the items listed under the definition for "Site Improvements".
"lot" shall mean a parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a main
building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for
the principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such yards and open
spaces as are required under the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. A lot may
or may not be specifically designated as such on public records. Each such
parcel shall also have its front line abutting a public street or a recorded
easement.
"Mains" or "Water Mains" as applied to the water supply facilities and
connections thereto, shall mean any water supply conveyance pipe eight (811)
inches or larger in diameter.
"Michigan Department of Environmental Quality" or "MDEQ" shall mean the State
Agency that regulates water supply facilities in the State and certain
wastewater disposal facilities in the State.
"Michigan Department of Transportation" or "MDOT' shall mean the State Agency
that operates State roadways and Federal expressways.
"Vil/age"shall mean the VILLAGE OF LEXINGTON (Michigan) and it's Officers,
Employees, and Agents, including, but not limited to, the Village Council,
Village Planning Commission, Village staff, Village Attorney, Village Engineer,
etc.
"National Pollution Discharge Elimination System" or "NPDES' shall mean that
system required by the State of Michigan to regulate treatment and discharge of
storm water and/or wastewater to the waters of the State.
"Natural Outlet" shall mean any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface water or groundwater.
"National Sanitation Foundation" or "NSF"shall mean the Public Health and
Safety CompanyrM, a not-for-profit, non-governmental organization, is the world
leader in standards development, product certification, education, and risk
management for public health and safety.
"Open Drain" shall mean a large open channel used to transport storm water,
groundwater, and surface water runoff or drainage water from any source.
"Parking Lot Bay' shall mean a portion of the width of a parking lot that
includes a set of parking stalls on either side of a driveway provided for
access to such parking stalls,
"Parking Lot" shall mean a designated area used primarily for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles.
"Person" shall mean any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, governmental agency (including school district), or other legal
entity.
"Plat" shall mean a map or chart of a subdivision of land as defined in Act No.
288 of Michigan Public Acts of 1967, as amended.
"Plot P/an"shall mean a scaled topographic drawing of existing and proposed
modifications to land utilized for or zoned for single and duplex residential
dwelling.
"Preliminary Subdivision Plan" shall mean a preliminary plat showing the
salient features of a proposed subdivision of land submitted to an approving
authority for purposes of preliminary consideration, as defined in Act No. 288
of Michigan Public Acts of 1967 as amended.
"Public Sanitary Sewer" shall mean a sanitary sewer owned and operated by a
governmental agency intended to be located in public easements or public right
of way that collect, or is intended to collect wastewater from more than one
user or premises and that is required to receive the approval and issuance of a
construction permit from the Municipal Wastewater Control Section of the MDEQ.
"Public Storm Sewer" or "Public Drain"shall mean a common storm sewer or drain
that services more than one user or premises and is controlled by the Village
or another governmental agency.
"Public Utility Company" or "Utility Company" shall mean a legally constituted
firm, corporation or agency (other than the Village or a County Agency acting
under a contract with the Village) that operates under a franchise or agreement
approved by the Village for the purpose of installing and operating public
utilities, including, but not limited to, gas piping, electric or telephone
wiring (underground or overhead), oil piping, television cable, water supply,
transmission mains, sanitary sewer interceptors, and/or drainage facilities.
"Public Water Main"shall mean a water main, existing or proposed, in public
easements or public rights of way that is intended to serve more than one user
or premises and that is required to receive the approval and issuance of a
construction permit from the Municipal Water Supply Section of the Michigan.
Department of Environmental Quality. The service pipe extending from a public
water main to a "Customer Water Supply Outlet" shall also be considered
"Public".
"Right of Way" or "ROW" shall mean land dedicated, reserved, used or to be used
for a street, alley, walkway or other public purposes.
"Sanilac County Drain Commissioner" or "SCDC" shall mean that person or agency
responsible for drainage improvements under the jurisdiction of the State
•   Drain Act, PA 40 of 1956, as amended.
''Sanilac County Road Commission" or ''SCRC' shall mean that agency responsible
for the construction, operation, and maintenance of county highways, roads, and
streets.
"Sanitary Sewer"shall mean a sewer, together with appurtenances, that carries
liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants, and institutions, together with minor quantities of ground,
storm, and surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
''Services, Water" as applied to the water supply facilities and connections
thereto, shall mean any water supply conveyance pipe outside of a building.
"Sewage Force Main" or ''Force Main"shall mean a wastewater conveyance pipe
which carries wastewater under pressure.
''Sewer" shall mean a pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage
water.
"Sight Distance" shall mean the unobstructed straight-line length of view from
a driver1s eye height to an object height.
"Site Improvements" or ''Improvements' shall mean such operations, acts of
construction or changes affecting land that increases the value, utility or
habitability of the site and including, but not limited to,1site grading;
drainage water sewers, culverts or drains; sanitary sewers; wastewater disposal
facilities; water supply piping; water supply facilities; gas piping; oil
piping; television cable; electric power supply wiring; telephone wiring;
roadway surfacing or paving; parking lot paving; driveways; bridges; lakes,
ponds, or lagoons; sidewalks; landscape walls and fences, and/or other
appropriate appurtenant items.
''Site Plan"shall mean the plan required under the Village's Zoning Ordinance
for "Site Plan Review" for all projects other than a land subdivision plat.
''Sanilac County Department of Construction, Soil Erosion & Sedimentation
Control Agency"shall mean that agency responsible for Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Permits.
"Stop Valve" or "Curb Stop"shall mean the valve placed on a building service
water supply pipe that is located at a "Customer Water Supply Outlet".
''Storm water Drain" or "Storm Drain" or "Storm Sewer" shall mean a watercourse
or a sewer intended for the conveyance of water, groundwater, surface water
runoff, drainage water.
"Storm water Inlet Structure" shall mean a structure designed and constructed
to intentionally admit surface water runoff, drainage water.
"Street" shall mean any street, avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard,
highway, road or other right of way that provides for vehicular or pedestrian
access to abutting properties by the general public; and includes the land
between the street right of way lines whether improved or unimproved. An alley
is not a street.
   1.    ''Street, public"shall mean a right of way that provides for vehicular
and pedestrian access to abutting properties that is deeded or dedicated to the
VIiiage or other governmental agency authorized to own road right of way and/or
operate vehicular transportation facilities.
   2.   "Street, private"shall mean a right of way or easement that provides
for vehicular and pedestrian access to acquiring properties for the general
public, but is not deeded or dedicated to a governmental agency for ownership,
operation or maintenance. The landowners of the property served by the private
street are responsible for Its ownership, operation, or maintenance..
   3.   "Street, major" or "Thoroughfare, major" shall mean streets or
thoroughfares meeting one or more of the following:
      a.   Streets that provide extensions to State Trunk Lines or County
Primary Roads in facilitating through traffic.
      b.   Streets that provide an integral network to service the traffic
demands created by industrial, commercial, educational, or other traffic
generating centers.
      c.   Streets that provide for the circulation of traffic and around the
central business district.
      d.   Streets that are designated truck routes.
      e.   Streets that collect traffic from an area served by an extensive
network of local streets.
      f.   Main traffic arteries designated on the master plan as a major
thoroughfare.
   4. "Street, collector" shall mean streets or highways intended primarily for
mutual access between major and minor streets, for entrance to residential
"areas and for circulation within such areas.
   5. "Street, minor"shall mean streets not meeting any of the criteria from
major streets or collector streets .
"Surface Water Runoff" or "Storm water' shall mean that part of rainfall or
melting snowfall that reaches the storm water drain as runoff from natural land
surfaces, building roofs or pavements.
"Trunk Storm Sewer" shall mean a public storm sewer having a diameter of twenty
four (24) Inches or larger.
"Underdrain Pq,e"shall mean a geotextile wrapped perforated pipe installed
underground for the specific purpose of lowering a high groundwater condition
or draining a granular sub-base by receiving groundwater seepage and conveying
it to a storm water drain. Farm Drain Tile is not Underdrain Pipe.
"Underwriters Laboratories, Inc." or "UL" shall mean product safety testing and
certification organization, UL is synonymous with safety.
"Unpolluted Water" or "Drainage Water" is water of a quality equal to or better
than the effluent criteria currently in effect, as specified by the MDEQ, or
water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and
would not be benefited by discharge to the Village sanitary sewers and
wastewater disposal system.
"User"shall mean the owner or occupant of any premises connected with and/or
using any of the facilities operated by the Department.
"Utility Company's Contractor" shall mean a construction contractor engaged by
the utility company to install public utilities for the utility company; or, in
the case where the utiiity company has a construction division that Installs
its own utilities, shall mean the utility company.
"Wastewater Treatment Works" or "Sewage Treatment Plant" shall mean facilities
for treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge.
"Wastewater" or "Sewage" shall mean the spent water of a community, including
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, and
industrial plants.
"Watercourse" shall mean a natural or artificial open channel for the passage
of water either continuously or intermittently.
**** ARTICLE III. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND SUBMITTALS ****
Section 64-12, General requirements and submittals; generally.
The items found in this article contain the general requirements for the
submittal of plans to the Village for review, comment, and approval. In
addition, specific requirements pertaining to Water Mains, Sanitary Sewers,
Storm Drains, Detention, Paving and Grading, Street Names, Street and Easement
Widths, all other Street and Easement Survey Information, follow this Section
and apply as stated within their respective context.
Section 64-13. Submittal requirements.
Projects submitted for review shall contain the following items. The Municipal
Engineer shall determine whether or not a specific exhibit is not applicable.
   (a)   Complete sets of Site Plans including Engineering Plans, bearing the
seal of a Registered Professional Civil Engineer, licensed to practice in the
State of Michigan according to the Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980,
and shall be submitted to the Village for review. The number of sets shall be
according to the Village of Lexington requirements as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, but in no case shall less than three (3) sets be provided. The
Village may elect to send the plans to a consulting firm of their choice for
review. Each plan sheet shall contain the project name and the project owner's
name and address.
   (b)   A Certified Boundary Survey of the site or a copy of the complete plat
shall be submitted along with the Engineering Construction Plans.
   (c)   Plans shall be submitted on 24-inch x 36-inch plans having blue or
black lines and shall be neatly and accurately prepared.
   (d)   All plans shall contain the latest version of the applicable Village's
standard details .
   (e)   The cover sheet shall include a location map, showing the location of
the proposed project; a symbol legend, and a sheet index.
   (f)   Existing information, topography, utilities, etc., shall be shown in
gray or lighter line weight, while proposed improvements shall be shown in dark
and heavy black lines. The legend shall clearly refer to all line symbols used.
   (g)   For projects having more than one (1) sheet of plans, a general plan
having a scale of 1 inch equal to 100 feet (1 "=100') shall be provided with
bar scale, and showing the overall project, as well as indicating the size and
general location of all improvements shown in the detailed plans. Street names,
street and easement widths, lot lines, lot dimensions, lot numbers, zoning, and
ownership shall be shown on all plans.
   (h).Utilities shall be located in accordance with the Village's standards.
Utilities shall be parallel to lot lines. Generally, utilities shall be
constructed in the road right of way or in easements adj_acent to the road
right of way and shall not be located under existing or proposed pavement,
including paths and sidewalks. Side yard easements are acceptable.
   (i)   Grading plans are required for all developments.
   (j)   Engineering plans having a scale of no greater than 1 inch equals 50
feet (1"=50') horizontal and 1 inch equals 5 feet (1"=5') vertical (for
profiles) shall be provided with bar scale, Sanitary sewer and water main can
be shown on the same sheet. Plan and profile views are required on all gravity
sewers. The profile, where possible, shall be shown below the plan view on the
same sheet.
   (k)   Storm sewer and pavement shall be shown on the same sheets. Plan and
profile views are required for all storm sewers. A plan view with centerline
stationing shown is required on all paving plans. Show the top of curb line on
profile.
   (I)   In the plan and profile views, all crossings of utilities must be
shown. When a water main crosses a sewer, an invert or top of pipe elevation
(whichever is appropriate) for the water main shall be shown. The minimum
vertical clearance between utilities shall be eighteen (18) inches.
   (m)   Profiles of sewers shall indicate the size, rim elevations of all
structures, the length of pipe between structures, the slope of the pipe,
numbering of structures, and casting. The profile shall indicate the existing
and proposed ground elevations above the route of the sewer. The inverts of all
sewers, both existing and proposed, shall be given at manholes. The location of
areas requiring compacted sand backfill shall be indicated on the profile.
   (n)   Elevations shall be on U.S.G.S. Datum. A minimum of two (2) permanent
benchmarks for the work shall be indicated on the plans with the datum used
clearly labeled .
   (o)   Any areas that are considered to be "wetlands" as defined by the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) shall be indicated on the
plans. No improvements will be allowed in wetlands unless the MDEQ issues a
permit for such improvements.
   (p)   Finished grade shall be indicated at the comers of all buildings and
for all utility structures.
   (q)   Plans for landscaping or tree planting required by either village
ordinance or the Village standard relating to such items as greenbelts, street
islands, detention basins, or landscape and open space areas, shall conform to
the Village standards and shall be submitted for review and approval prior to
final site approval.
   (r)   All new grass areas that are required in the public right of way and
all existing grass areas that are disturbed by construction shall be
established or restored in conformance with the standards provided in this
ordinance.
   (s)   Street names shall be approved by the Village.
   (t)   The Developer's consulting engineer shall forward plans for approval
to any public utility (gas, electric, etc.) and any Federal, State or County
Agency, whose facilities or right of way may be affected by the proposed
construction. Permits for such construction, if required, shall be the
responsibility of the Developer. One (1) copy of any such permit shall be
provided to the Village prior to construction.
   (u)   For all developments, one (1) electronic Copy on disk in AutoCAD
format, one (1) electronic copy in Acrobat PDF format1 and two (2) sets of
prints sealed by a Registered Professional licensed to practice ih the State of
Michigan according to State of Michigan Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of
19801 of all as"built drawings for sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains,
detention basins, streets and roads, shall be provided by the Developer prior
to final approval and acceptance by the Village.
   (v)   All materials and workmanship shall conform to the latest edition of
the Michigan Department of Transportation's (MOOT) "Standard Specifications for
Construction", the Sanilac County Road Commission (SCRC) published criteria,
and the requirements of this ordinance. In the event of a conflict between
standards1 the most stringent shall govern, except when the Village agrees that
a less stringent interpretation is appropriate for the intended use.
**** ARTICLE IV. GRADING ****
Sections 64- 14, Requirements for master grading plans.
A Master Grading Plan is required for all developments. Master Grading Plans
shall accompany the set of engineering construction plans and shall include the
following:
   (a)   Benchmark locations, descriptions, and elevations (USGS) to be used
for the development.
   (b)   The minimum scale for grading plans is one inch equals fifty feet (1"
= 50').
   (c)   The grades of existing adjacent house$, buildings, drainage
structures, and streets shall be shown One (1) foot existing contqurs shall be
shown for the site and one hundred (100) feet past the property line(s). The
drainage pattern of all adjacent land shall be indicated. All off site drainage
flowing onto the site shall be clearly labeled and identified .
   (d)   Match existing grade at the property boundaries.
   (e)   Grading plans shall correspond wlth proposed landscape, soil erosion,
and Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) requirements. Any revisions
in the grading plan may require Planning Commission approval if it directly or
indirectly affects the approved landscape.
   (f)   The grading plan shall be designed to ensure that if a failure occurs
in the storm system, water will drain without flooding structures.
   (g)   Show proposed building finish floor grade to hundredths of a foot. For
residential developments, place each house grade within the plan v'iew, using
foundation plan or outline of a typical house to be built in this development.
   (h)   The finish grade shall be compatible with the grades of surrounding
buildings and yards.
   (i)   For non-residential developments show the proposed sidewalk grades at
lot lines, center of driveway crossings and at fifty (50{'}'} foot intervals to
hundredths of a foot
   (j)   Rear yard storm drainage is required in all residential developments
where necessary to prevent storm drainage from running onto adjacent
properties.
   (k)   All existing and proposed earth grades are to be in tenths of a foot.
   (I)   Rear yard swales shall be, in general, no longer than four hundred
(400) feet before being intercepted by a catch basin and shall have a minimum
grade of 0.5%.
   (m)   Rear yard storm drain piping shall be eight (8) inches minimum
diameter.
   (n)   Show existing and proposed ground grades at lot corners around the
perimeter boundaries.
   (o)   Show the proposed side yard swale elevation between all buildings.
This elevation must be a minimum of 0.5 feet below the lower adjacent building
grade. The side yard swale must have a minimum slope of 0.5% to the front and
rear.
   (p)   Where topography prevents rear yard drainage from being practical,
rear to front or rear to side drainage may be allowed.
   (q)   The general direction of flow of all yard drainage and all swales must
be indicated with arrows.
   (r)   Additional grades shall be shown under special conditions as required.
   (s)   The lot number or address shall be shown for each lot.
   (t)   Any required storm sewer easements shall be a minimum of twenty (20)
feet wide. All drainage easements for swales shall be a minimum of ten (10)
feet wide. Easements for drainage ditches shall include the ditch plus a
minimum of ten (10) feet beyond the top of banks on each side. The Village
shall require additional easement width when sewer size or depth and soils or
other conditions warrant a wider easement. Easements are required for all
public storm drains and private drains serving more than one (1) parcel.
   (u)   Drainage shall be adequately discharged off site to either the street
or a dedicated storm drain. Drainage from adjacent properties "off site
drainage" that flows onto project on site, shall be maintained.
   (v)   Sodded swale or ditch slopes shall be a maximum slope of one (1) foot
vertically and three (3) feet horizontally.
   (w)   No berms shall be placed over any underground public water main,
sanitary sewer, storm drain, or within the designated easements for such
facilities.
   (x)   Drainage water runoff from building roofs shall be piped to a point
five (5) feet away from the outside walls of any building.
   (y)   No drainage water runoff shall be allowed on adjacent property.
   (z)   Drainage water, sump pump water, and/or ground water shall not be
discharged to the sanitary sewer system.
   (aa)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, modify, or
obstruct the flow of drainage water across any property in any manner different
from the approved plan.
   (bb)   During periods of the year when weather conditions make site grading
work impractical, a temporary Permit may be issued, subject to the furnishing
of a satisfactory Bond or Letter of Credit in an amount determined by the
Village guaranteeing the completion of the work when weather conditions permit.
Section 64-15. Retaining walls.
   (a)   Retaining walls should be used when adequate grading cannot be
accomplished.
   (b)   Retaining walls exceeding forty-two (42) inches in height should
include protective fencing on top or as required by State and County codes.
   (c)   Retaining walls exceeding thirty-six (36) inches in height shall be
designed by a Registered Professional Civil Engineer. Design calculations shall
be submitted with the construction plans ..
**** ARTICLE V. ROADS AND PAVING ****
Section 64-16. Plans and specifications; submittal procedure.
Plans and specifications shall be submitted as part of a site development
package in accordance with Article III of this Chapter, entitled "General
Requirements & Submittals11.
Section 64-17. Plans and specifications,: general content
Plans and specifications shall provide the following general content:
   (a)   All plans are to identify clearly public/private dedication.
   (b)   Provide continuous stationing.
   (c)   Centerline curve data (radius, deflection angle, degree of curvature
and total arc length) for all roads shall be indicated on the plans. All
horizontal curves shall be consecutively numbered and indicated in the plan
view.
   (d)   Finish grade of all structures shall be indicated in the plan view.
   (e)   Show a detail of all intersections and cul-de-sacs. The detail shall
show layout and detailed grades. Maximum scale of the detail shall be one inch
equals thirty feet (1 "=30').
   (f)   A profile view shall be provided for all roads (public and private)
and include the following:
      (1)   Elevations at top of curb or at centerline, if not curbed.
      (2)   Existing ground elevations at the .center of the right of way and
at other locations, as required for review. Elevations shall be based on USGS
Datum .
      (3)   Station and elevations of all high points, low points, grade
breaks, curb returns and necessary information at vertical curves.
      (4)   Top of curb (or centerline) elevations at each station. Grade in
vertical curves must be indicated at twenty-five (25) foot intervals.
Section 64-18. Paving requirements for public roads and streets within platted
subdivisions or within site condominium subdivisions (whether dedicated to the
public or owned by condominium project).
The following requirements shall apply:
   (a)   Public roads and streets within platted subdivisions and site
condominium subdivisions, and private roads and streets within site condominium
projects, where permitted, shall be designed and constructed to standards for
subdivision streets as set forth in the Village of Lexington Subdivision
Regulations Ordinance and the standards set forth below. Where there is a
discrepancy between standards, the more stringent requirements shall govern .
   (b)   Street paving width shall conform to the following requirements:
Street Type Pavement Width Minimum ROW
Street Type                  Pavement Width                        Minimum ROW
                            B/C to B/C (feet)                     (feet)
                             40 (5) See following information from
Major Streets/ Thoroughfares Uniform Criteria for Major Streets    {'{'}1)
                             from MDOT
Collector Streets            36                                    80
Minor Streets                32 (2)(3)                             60
Marginal Access              24                                    50
Boulevards (per lane)        20                                    80
Industrial Streets           36                                    80
Cul-de- sacs                 (4)                                    
   Residential            45 (outside radius)                   60 (radius)
    Industrial            58 (outside radius)                   75 (radius)
 
Note 1: As indicated on the master plan or as required by the county road
commission for county roads of that functional class, whichever is greater.
Note 2: If an alternate valley-type curb is provided (see illustration), the
pavement width may be reduced to 30 feet measured back-to-back of curbs.
Note 3: In cases where a "no parking" local street is approve by the Village
Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the pavement width may
be reduced to 26 feet measured back-to-back of curbs (see illustration).
Note 4: Width of street in cul-de-sacs: back of curb)      Minor Residential -
26' (back of curb to
                           Industrial - 36' (back of curb to back of curb)
Note 5: For additional pavement standards for major streets and thoroughfares -
See sketches, tables, and information below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
   (c)   The intersection of roads shall be as close to ninety degrees (900) as
possible with a variation of no more than ten degrees (100). However,
intersections with a major street must be at a ninety-degree (90) angle,
   (d)   When boulevard sections are used at the entrance, the minimum pavement
widths shall be twenty-eight (28) feet (B/C to B/C), and the median shall be
offset at least twelve (12) feet from the edge of lane of the intersecting
street.
   (e)   All islands and medians shall be curbed in the same manner and in
accordance with the same detail for curb and gutter used elsewhere, Hourglass
and other odd shaped medians are not acceptable, Material placed between the
curbs shall be seeded earth, crushed limestone, or other materials approved by
the Village,
   (f)   Cul-de-sacs shall be avoided, unless space restraints require such
usage. Local residential cul-de-sac streets shall not serve more than 20
dwelling units. The lengths of cul-de-sac streets of other classifications
shall be as determined by the Planning Commission in each case. Cul-de- sac
turnarounds for local streets shall conform to the detail illustration provided
herein, entitled "Turn Around at Road Terminus -Curb & Gutter Design". Cul-de-
sac turnarounds for other classifications of streets shall be as set forth in
the Subdivision Regulations Ordinance and shall be in accordance with standard
engineering practices as determined by the Village Engineer. A reduced pavement
section may be submitted for review for a temporary cul-de-sac. "T" and "L"
type turnarounds may be permitted in specific cases upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission and approval by the Village Council.
   (g)   Soil borings, five (5) feet below existing grade (minimum), shall be
taken by an independent testing laboratory or qualified professional at
intervals not to exceed five hundred (500) feet. Additional borings may be
required where the USDA Soil Surveyor onsite inspection indicates unstable soil
may be present.
   (h)   The applicant shall remove all unsuitable soil including muck, peat
and marl, as well as brush, trees, tree stumps and similar materials from the
full width of the roadway. These areas shall then be backfilled with MDOT Class
II Granular Material to provide a stable subgrade for the roadway construction
   (i)   Street cross-sections shall include curb and gutter and shall meet or
exceed the minimum pavement thicknesses shown in the figures. Subsurface soil
conditions shall govern exact thickness. An engineering design shall be
submitted based on the soil borings above, if required. Pavement cross-sections
may have either an aggregate base or full depth asphalt. Concrete cross-
sections shall also be allowed. All cross-sections shall be subject to the
approval by the Village. Phased development shall use the same cross-section
throughout the entire project.
   (j)   Minimum curb and gutter radii at intersections shall be as follows,
unless otherwise approved by the Village:
 
Minimum Radius (Back of Curb)
Major Streets/Thoroughfares   40 feet
Collector & Minor Streets     30 feet
Industrial Streets            50 feet
 
Entrances (residential, commercial or industrial) shall be designed to
accommodate the larger vehicles anticipated to use the site and stay within
their lane.
   (k)   Maximum allowable pavement grade shall be five percent (5%), however,
where essential to reasonable development, seven percent (7%) may be permitted
for collector and minor streets. The minimum allowable(s) shall be as follows:
 
Concrete gutter grades                  =0.40%
Concrete gutter return at intersections =1.00%
Pavement surface grade to gutter line   =1.00%
Typical cross-slope                     =2.00%
 
   (I)   At the intersection of two (2) roadways, the maximum grade shall be
three percent (3%) for a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the point of
intersection.
   (m)   AII streets shall be designed for a minimum design speed of thirty
(30) mph (posted speed 25 mph). Design criteria (AASHTO and Design Speed) shall
be noted on the plans.
   (n)   The minimum sight distance for all roads shall be three hundred (300)
feet for streets with design speeds of thirty (30) mph. Sight distances for
roads having higher design speeds shall be designed according to AASHTO (latest
edition) .
   (o)   Whenever a change in the vertical centerline grade of one percent (1%
) or more occurs, provide a vertical curve. The minimum length of vertical
curve shall be one hundred (100) feet and shall be rounded to the nearest fifty
(50) feet thereafter. For a thirty (30) mph design speed, the minimum crest
''K" value shall be thirty (30) and the minimum sag 11K11 value shall be forty
(40). Higher design speeds shall be designed according to AASHTO (latest
edition).
   (p)   Left turn lanes and bypass lanes should be considered on streets where
traffic volumes are high enough or safety considerations are sufficient to
warrant them. Such usage shall be determined on a case-by-case basis at the
discretion of the Village (or jurisdictional authority).
   (q)   All curbing shall be cast-in-Jjlace concrete meeting the details
provided in the figures unless otherwise approved by the Village. The curb
detail shall be approved by the Village prior to placing. Valley gutter type
curbing may be used for minor residential streets in situations where the exact
locations of driveways are not known in advance (see illustration detail).
Asphalt and precast concrete curbing shall not be permitted.
   (r)   All curbing shall drain to catch basins in the curb. Catch basins
shall be spaced as specified in the Storm Drainage System Section .
   (s)   Edgedrain shall be used at the low points in the road. Edgedrain shall
be placed for a minimum distance of twenty-five (25) feet in both directions
from the catch basin. Additional or continuous edgedrain may be required, as
directed. Edgedrain shall be a minimum of four (4) inch diameter pipe wrapped
with a geotextile fabric and backfilled with a granular material or clean
crushed stone. Edgedrain shall be connected to catch basin.
   (t)   The Village shall require street lighting at street intersections or
other locations to serve purposes of safety and/or security. When required, the
intensity and type of illumination, location, and types of poles, bases, etc.
shall be coordinated with the existing and future street lighting within the
area.
   (u)   The Owner/Developer/Proprietor shall provide and properly maintain,
until accepted by the Village, all traffic and pavement markings, which the
Village may determine necessary for the proper operation of the roadway/
driveway/curb cut. Only those traffic signs and pavement markings specified by
the Village (or jurisdictional authority) may be used within the road right of
way. All signs and pavement markings shall conform to the current Michigan
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MMUTCD). The Developer will be
responsible for constructing all required signs and pavement markings.
Section 64-19. Paving requirements for public roads and streets not located
within platted subdivisions or site condominium subdivisions.
The following requirements shall apply:
   (a)   Public roads and streets not located within platted subdivisions and
site condominium subdivisions, and/or not intended to serve the same, shall be
designed and constructed to meet or exceed the minimum published standards for
paved privately built roads of the Sanilac County Road Commission, as amended.
Except as modified by the cross-section illustration provided herein, entitled
"Typical Cross Section".
   (b)   Enclosed drainage and curbing shall not be required for roads and
streets developed pursuant to this Section.
   (c)   Rights-of-way for such roads and streets shall not be less than sixty-
six (66) feet. An exception may be granted by the Village Council in a specific
case upon receipt of a written report and recommendation from the village
engineer where it can be clearly demonstrated that all applicable requirements,
including adequate area for future sidewalks and planting strips, can be met
Within a lesser right-ot-way. However, in no instance shall the right-ot-way be
less than sixty (60) feet
   (d)   The travel surface shall be not less than twenty-two (22) feet in
width with a three (3) toot gravel shoulder on each side.
   (e)   Dead-end road and streets shall not be permitted.
   (f)   Cul-de-sac road and streets shall be provided with a paved circular
turnaround conforming to that is designed and constructed to meet or exceed the
minimum published standards for paved roads of the Sanilac County Road
Commission, as amended, except as modified by the detail illustration provided
herein1 entitled "Turn Around at Road Terminus -Standard Design." A reduced
pavement section may be submitted for review for a temporary cul-de-sac. "T"
and "L" type turnarounds meeting the minimum requirements of Sanilac County
Road Commission may be permitted in specific cases upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission and approval by the Village Council and the Municipal
Engineer.
   (g)   All such streets and roads shall be dedicated to the Village of
Lexington. Private streets or roads are not permitted under this Section. This
section is not meant to apply to internal access drives within multiple-family
housing developments. However, in those multiple-family housing developments
where internal roadways are provided to serve attached or detached dwelling
units which have individual driveways leading to garages, or serving as the
parking area for each adjacent dwelling unit, said roadways shall be designed
and constructed to meet the standards set forth in the Village Code for
subdivisions and in Section
64-18.of this ordinance.
Section 64-20. Paving requirements for existing private roads for the pwpose of
dedication to the public.
It is the policy of the Village that minimum road standards must be maintained
so that any private road accepted by the Village does not pose a threat to the
health, safety, and welfare of Village residents or others who may utilize said
road. Therefore, the following minimum standards and specifications must be met
in order for the Village to consider acceptance of dedication of an existing
private road:
   (a)   Must have been in existence prior to the adoption of this ordinance
and must have been developed and constructed lawfully at the time ofits
inception.
   (b)   Must allow access to more than one parcel, lot, residence, or place of
business, which is normally open to the public and upon which persons other
than the owners located thereon, may also travel.
   (c)   Must have a minimum road right-of-way or easement width of sixty-six
(66) feet. An exception may be granted by the Village Council in a specific
case upon receipt of a written report and recommendation from the village
engineer where it can be clearly demonstrated that all applicable requirements,
including adequate area for future sidewalks and planting strips, can be met
within a lesser right of-way. However, in no instance shall the right-of-way be
less than fifty (50) feet.
   (d)   A dead-end private road must terminate in a circular turn-around
having a right-of-way radius of sixty-six (66) feet and a pavement radius at
the outside edge of fifty (50) feet. However, "T" and "L" type turnarounds,
meeting the minimum requirements of Sanilac County Road Commission, may be
permitted in specific cases upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and
the Municipal Engineer and approval by the Village Council.
   (e)   Soil borings and core samples of existing road, five (5) feet below
existing grade (minimum), shall be taken by an independent testing laboratory
or qualified professional at intervals not to exceed five hundred (500) feet.
Additional borings may be required where the USOA Soil Surveyor onsite
inspection indicates unstable soil may be present. Borings may be required, to
verify cross- sections and existing sub-base.
   (f)   Must conform to the following minimum design and Construction Cross-
Section Standards:
      (1)   Concrete Roads
         i.   Sub-base   611 of MOOT Class II granular material
         ii.   Base   611 reinforced Portland cement concrete*
Note: concrete pavement depth for residential roads serving more than 50
dwelling units shall be increased to seven (7{'}'} inches.
      (2)   Asphalt Roads (see attached sketch)
         i.   Sub-base   6" min. MOOT Class" granular material
         ii.   Aggregate base   8" min. 22A crushed limestone
         iii.   Surface   165#/S.Y. MOOT Mix No. 3C Leveling
                  165#/S.Y. MDOT Mix No, 4C Surface
If an existing private road conforms to all of the requirements herein and the
minimum design standards set forth in this section, the Village Council, in its
sole discretion, may consider accepting dedication of said private road.
However, the Village is under no obligation to accept the dedication of a
private road merely because it meets the minimum standards set forth in this
ordinance.
**** ARTICLE VI. PARKING LOTS ****
Section 64-21. Plans and Specifications -Submittal procedure.
Plans and specifications shall be submitted as part of a site development
package in accordance with "General Requirements & Submittals".
Section 64-22. Plans and Specifications -Design criteria .
   (a)   Parking lots shall be grouped as follows:
      (1)   Class "I" -Light duty driveways, schoolyards, playgrounds, and
small parking lots with less than forty (40) stalls. This cross-section is not
suitable for heavy refuse truck pick-ups or delivery services. In areas where
these services are used, the commercial/industrial cross-section should be used
for routing to and from the service area.
      (2)   Class "II" -Parking lots containing more than forty (40) stalls,
medium to heavy truck traffic, some commercial lots.
      (3)   Class "III" -Industrial lots, heavy truck uses, some commercial
lots, bus routes. Note: Cross-section for the above can be found in the figures
at the end of this section.
   (b)   Alternate cross-sections designed by a qualified, licensed
Professional Engineer and accompanied by supporting data will be considered.
   (c)   Service drives shall utilize the Class "II" cross-section. Class "III"
or design alternatives should be considered where extremely high volumes of
truck traffic would be encountered.
   (d)   Concrete curb shall be placed on drive entrances for the paved parking
area. Concrete curbing shall be required in all locations where it needs to
protect landscaping areas or sidewalk. Concrete curb shall be MDOT C-4, unless
approved otherwise. Bituminous curbing will not be permitted. Thickened edge
sidewalks are acceptable when the pavement is sloped away from the sidewalk.
   (e)   When sidewalks are provided adjacent to the parking area curbs where
car overhangs occur, such walks shall be a minimum width of seven and one half
(7.5) feet, as measured from the face of the curb.
   (f)   Parking bays shall be sixty-four (64) feet wide (20-foot stalls and
24-foot aisle plus 20-foot stall). However, for a single bay, a car overhang of
two (2) feet can be assumed and the width between face of curbs may be reduced
to sixty (60) feet. Moreover, on the curb-side of a multiple bay parking area,
the two (2) foot overhang may be assumed for the purposes of reducing the
pavement width of the outside bay to sixty-two (62) feet. Where the parking
area is adjacent to the project boundary line, the face of curb shall be
located at least two (2) feet from such boundary line and must meet the current
Zoning Ordinance.
   (g)   Individual parking spaces shall be marked by painted on yellow stripes
a minimum of four
      (4)   inches wide. The stripe shall extend from the front of the parking
stall space to the end of the space.
   (h)   Barrier free parking spaces shall be striped in blue and signed
meeting the latest ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) requirements.
Section 64-23. Parking lot lighting
   (a)   All parking lots shall be illuminated. lighting intensities shall
average one (1) foot candle measured at the surface for parking areas. Service
drives shall have a lower intensity averaging 0.5 foot candles. All outdoor
lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and be arranged to reflect light
away from all residential districts, adjacent residences and public right of
ways. At the property line, 0.1 foot candles shall be the maximum amount of
light.
   (b)   A photometric plan (lighting grid) may be required to determine the
appropriateness of the proposed lighting layout and intensity.
   (c)   light poles shall have a maximum height as required by Zoning
Ordinance, unless approved by the Village.
   (d)   All fixtures shall be high-pressure sodium lamps, metal halide, or as
required by Zoning Ordinance. Photocells or other approved equipment is
required on all fixtures.
   (e)   All wiring shall be UL listed for wet locations. No wiring shall be
exposed.
**** ARTICLE VII. DRIVEWAYS, SIDEWALKS, AND BIKE PATHS ****
Section 64-24. Plans and Specifications -Submittal procedure.
Plans and specifications shall be submitted as part of a site development
package in accordance with "General Requirements & Submittals".
Section 64-25. Plans and Specifications -Design criteria for driveways.
   (a)   Residential -All residential driveways within the road right of way
shall be concrete with a minimum thickness of six (6) inches. Residential
driveways shall have a minimum width of ten (10) feet or match the existing
drive. No residential driveway shall be wider than thirty (30) feet (measured
at the edge of the street), unless approved in writing by the Village.
   (b)   Commercial - All commercial driveways within the road right of way
shall be concrete with a minimum thickness of eight (8) inches and reinforced
with 6"x6"x #6 steel mesh. Commercial drives shall be of a width approved by
the Village.
   (c)   Industrial-Heavily traveled industrial drives shall be designed by a
qualified Professional Engineer and approved by the Village. Industrial drive
widths shall be approved by the Village .
   (d)   Residential approaches shall have adequate flares to provide a safe
turning radius. Minimum flaring shall be six (6) feet on the right side and
four (4) feet on the left. Flaring length shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet.
If a residential driveway is wider than twenty (20) feet, the flaring widths
shall be adjusted to provide a maximum drive opening of thirty (30) feet.
   (e)   Commercial and industrial approaches shall be MOOT Type "M" openings
   (f)   Driveways shall be sloped to direct drainage to the street.
   (g)   For residential approaches constructed on an existing curbed street,
the curb and gutter shall be entirely removed or cut horizontally when approved
in advance by the Village. When an MDOT Type "M" approach is constructed on any
existing curbed street, the curb and gutter must be entirely removed. The
extent of the removal shall extend to the nearest joint past the spring line of
the new curb.
Section 64-26. Plans and Specifications-Design criteria for sidewalks.
   (a)   Sidewalks shall generally be located one (1) foot inside of the right
of way line and parallel to such line and shall be required on both sides of a
new street. For commercial site plans, continuous sidewalk shall be provided
across the parcels frontage,
   (b)   Sidewalks shall be five (5) feet wide (except where a greater width is
required) with control joints one (1) inch deep at five (5) foot intervals.
   (c)   Sidewalks shall meet latest ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act)
requirements.
   (d) Sidewalks shall have smooth transitions and gentle curves. No sharp
edges or abrupt changes in alignment are allowed. Sidewalks shall "jog" around
natural features (i.e., trees, etc.) where feasible.
   (e)   Plans for sidewalks shall include existing contours at a minimum of
one (1) foot intervals. Proposed grades along the centerline of the sidewalk
shall be at fifty (50) foot intervals.
   (f)   In general, sidewalks shall be at a higher elevation than the street
and slope transversely toward the street at two percent (2%) minimum.
   (g)   Where sidewalks meet driveways, they shall run continuously through
the drives. The slope of the drives shall be designed to meet the sidewalk.
   (h)   At street intersections, sidewalk ramps shall be used to meet the
existing street grade. If existing curb is involved, the curb shall be removed
and the sidewalk ramped to meet the pavement. No horizontal curb cuts shall be
used unless approved in advance by the Village.
   (i)   Integrated curb and sidewalk shall not be used, except for commercial
site plans.
   (j)   Sidewalks shall have the following thicknesses:
 
Thru commercial drives*   8" w/6" x 611 x #6 steel mesh
Thru residential drives*. 6"
Sidewalk ramps            6"
All others **             4"
 
*Plus one (1) flag each side of driveway
**In any emergency access areas, sidewalks must be 6" or as required
Section 64-27. Materials.
   (a)   Sidewalks and driveways shall be air-entrained concrete with a minimum
compressive strength of4000 psi. Sidewalk shall be treated with one (1) coat of
a curing compound membrane.
   (b)   Sidewalk and driveway base shall be four (4) inches of Class" Sand,
compacted to ninety-five percent (95%) maximum density.
   (c)   Shoulders shall be graded gently away from the sidewalk and be either
seeded and mulched, or sod.
**** ARTICLE VIII. WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM ****
Section 64-28. Plans and Specifications -Submittal procedure.
   (a)   The plans and specifications shall be submitted in accordance with
"General Requirements & Submittals"
   (b)   The Applicant may proceed with water main permitting once the Village
has conducted an initial review of the entire construction plan submittal and
all revisions pertaining to the water main have been completed.
   (c)   The Applicant must submit the four (4) sets of final plans with the
MDEQ permit application for signature, along with prepaid envelopes, or
packages for mailing to MDEQ. Once the Village approves the application with
the prints, the Village will sign the application and submit to the MDEQ in the
prepaid envelopes.
Section 64-29. Plans and Specifications -General design considerations.
   (a)   All water systems shall be designed conforming to the current edition
of the "Recommended Standards for Water Works", published by Health Education
Services, also known as the ''Ten State Standards" and the MDEQ requirements.
   (b)   Plans shall consist of a cover sheet showing plan and profile views of
the complete project.
   (c)   Prior to starting any water system design, the applicant is encouraged
to make use of maps and information available at the Village offices. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant to field check and verify utility
locations provided by the Village.
   (d)   The cover sheet shall contain a total quantity listing of the proposed
water main improvements, indicating the lengths of pipe, type of pipe and their
respective sizes.
   (e)   Provide continuous stationing. Identify all existing and proposed
tees, valves, bends, hydrants, etc.
   (f)   Soil borings, two (2) feet below design grade (minimum), shall be
taken by an independent testing laboratory or qualified professional at
intervals not to exceed five hundred (500) feet, when required. Additional
borings may be required where the USDA Soil Surveyor onsite inspection
indicates unstable soil may be present.
Section 64-30. Benchmarks and Elevations.
   (a)   Elevations shall be on U.S.G.S. Datum. There shall be a minimum of two
(2) benchmarks with one (1) benchmark at least every 1,200 feet.
   (b)   Proposed finish grade elevations at hydrants and gate valves shall be
shown on the plans.
Section 64-31. Soll Conditions
Water main design, relative to pipe bedding and location, shall reflect the
proper selection of materials and construction method compatible with the field
conditions. Areas that show unsatisfactory ground material for pipe bearing or
possible chemical deterioration due to soils shall be avoided or the pipe shall
be suitably installed on adequately designed bedding and/or enclosed in
protective wrap or coating.
Section 64-32. Location and layout
   (a)   The distribution system in all developments requiring more than six
hundred (600) feet of water main shall have a minimum of two (2) connections to
a source of supply and shall be a "looped" system, whenever possible.
   (b)   Generally, water mains shall be installed in a public street right of
way or in easements exclusively reserved for such use on the opposite side of
the street from sanitary sewers. Whenever possible, water main shall be located
on the NORTH side of an east-West Street and on the west side of a north-south
street.
   (c)   Water main shall be installed parallel to the property lines or
building lines, with clearance distances to allow for a twenty (20) foot width
dedication of easement centered on the water main. Water mains shall be kept on
one side of the street
   (d)   Water main shall be constructed outside of paved parking areas,
streets and drives, unless approved by the Village. The Village shall not be
liable to repair improved areas within an easement.
   (e)   In new developments, water mains shall be installed from boundary to
boundary in abutting roads, interior streets, and at other locations, as may be
deemed necessary by the Village for future extensions.
   (f)   When connecting to an existing water main, a cut in tee with gate
valve or a tapping sleeve and valve will be required. A full body sleeve is
required for all taps made to ductile iron, cast iron, or PVC water main, or as
directed by the Village. Same size tapping sleeves will be allowed.
   (g)   The plans shall indicate the finish grades of all hydrants, valve
boxes, and gate wells.
   (h)   All water mains shall be located so as to provide a minimum of ten
(10) feet horizontal clearance between the nearest edge of the water main and
the nearest edge of any sanitary or storm sewer.
   (i)   Where conditions require tunneling or boring, consult the Village for
specific requirements. These conditions may include road crossings or conflicts
with trees, shrubs, structures or other utilities. Where water mains cross
improved roads of any type, the pipe shall be installed by directional boring
or bore and jack (placed in a steel casing pipe), or as approved by the
Village. All boring work shall be in accordance with the current MDOT standards
and as approved by the Village.
Section 64-33. Directional boring or bore & jack.
Where conditions require directional boring or bore & jack, consult the Village
for specific requirements. Where watermains or water service leads cross
improved roads of any type, the pipe shall be installed by directional boring
or bore &jack (placed in a steel casing pipe), unless approved otherwise by the
Village. All boring work shall be in accordance with the current MOOT standards
and as approved by the Village.
Section 64-34. Easements.
   (a)   Easements for possible extensions or looped connections shall be
extended to the property line at locations designated by the Village. All
easements shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet wide and shall be dedicated to
the Village.
   (b)   The easement descriptions shall include the hydrant leads and shall
extend a minimum of ten (10) feet beyond the hydrant on any lead. The easement
documents shall contain a provision prohibiting the construction of or locating
of any above ground structures within the limits of such easements.
Section 64-35. Pipe sizes.
   (a)   Eight (8) inch diameter water mains are the minimum size to be
installed in single-family residential areas.
   (b)   Twelve (12) inch water mains are considered to be the minimum size in
commercial, office, industrial and multiple family residential areas, except in
a looped system of 1,500 feet or less where eight (8) inch mains may be
permitted, if approved by the Village.
   (c)   Water main shall be sized to provide the volumes required by the
proposed developments. Design shall include ample research to verify that the
required volumes and pressures are available.
   (d)   Water mains shall be designed to provide adequate volumes for the fire
fighting purposes. Insurance Services Office (ISO) Standards shall be used, as
a minimum guideline, to provide 1000 gallons per minute (GPM) for emergency
use.
   (e)   All single hydrant leads longer than seventy-five (75) feet must be a
minimum of eight (8) inches in diameter.
Section 64-36. Pipe materials.
   (a)   Water mains sixteen (16) inches in diameter or less shall be PVC C900,
Ductile Iron Class 54, or other acceptable type approved by the Village
Engineer.
   (b)   Ninety (90) degree bends are not permitted, except as detailed for
hydrant assemblies.
Section 64-37. Gate Valves -location.
   (a)   A valve shall be provided at every connection to existing mains,
unless otherwise approved by the Village.
   (b)   In general, valves on cross connecting mains shall be arranged so that
no single line failure will require more than eight hundred (800) feet of main
to be out of service. Also, sufficient valves shall be placed such that not
more than twenty-four (24) homes, thirty (30) multiple family units, or two (2)
hydrants shall be out of service within such section of water main, which can
be isolated. On transmission mains, valves shall be spaced not more than one-
quarter (1/4) mile apart. Valves shall be so arranged that any section can be
isolated by closing not more than four (4) valves.
   (c)   A valve shall be provided on every dead-end line where required for
future extension, at a location approved by the Village. All dead-end mains
must have valves at the tee.
   (d)   Valves shall be as specified within the Village-approved detail
sheets.
   (e)   Valves should not be located under roadway pavement, bike paths,
sidewalks or driveway approaches, unless approved by the Village.
Section 64-38. Gate Valves.
All valves and tapping sleeves should be placed outside of hard surfaces
whenever possible. Valves shall utilize a valve box. Approval from the Village
is required for all valves to be located within a hard surface area. Gate
valves shall be resilient wedge.
Section 64-39. Are hydrants
   (a)   In general, no residential dwelling shall be more than three hundred
(300) feet from a fire hydrant, as measured along the street right of way line.
Hydrants should be positioned as close to lot lines as possible. Locations
shall be approved by the Village.
   (b)   Commercial building sites shall be serviced by a minimum of two (2)
hydrants.
   (c)   Spacing of hydrants around commercial and/or manufacturing
establishments shall be considered on an individual case and shall be
determined by consultation with the Village and the Fire Department.
   (d)   A hydrant shall be installed at the end of every dead-end main.
   (e)   In general, hydrants shall be located in the road right of way nine
(9) feet from the right of way line, but not closer than six (6) feet to the
back of curb. The location of hydrants with respect to the right of way line
shall be indicated on the plans. Hydrant valves shall face the road and
hydrants shall be plumb and set to grade prior to final acceptance.
   (g)   Hydrants and valves shall be as shown on the Village standard detail
sheet.
Section 64-40. Pipe restraints.
   (a)   Thrust blocks shall be installed at all bends, dead-ends, tees,
reducers and hydrants as shown on Village standard detail sheet.
   (b)   Restrained joints of a type acceptable to the Village may be used in
lieu of thrust blocks with the number of restrained joints determined by the
manufacturer and approved by the Village.
Section 64-41. Services.
   (a)   Service lines are to be shown to all buildings other than single
family detached dwellings.
   (b)   Service lines shall be installed using Type "K" soft copper or 200
psi. HOPE for services two inches or less. Services over two (2) inches, shall
be same material as main as shown on the Village standard detail sheet.
   (c)   A curb stop for each service line shall be provided and located at the
right of way or edge of easement. Curb stops in drives and sidewalk will not be
allowed.
   (d)   The Internal diameter shall be shown for each service and the minimum
size shall be as shown on the Village standard detail sheet.
   (e)   There shall be one (1) service lead per building. No shared service
leads will be permitted.
Section 64-42. Rre protection lines.
   (a)   Fire protection lines, where applicable, are to be shown to all
buildings.
   (b)   A valve and a back flow device for each fire protection line shall be
provided by the developer as shown on the Village standard detail sheet.
   (c)   The domestic supply lead shall be a separate lead from the fire
protection line.
Section 64-43. Acceptance of utilities,
   (a)   Preliminary Acceptance.
      (1)   The installed mains must pass all required pressure tests and
acteriological tests, as required by the current Village Standards, prior to
the final connections.
      (2)   Prior to acceptance, water mains shall be flushed in accordance
with the Standards and all current AWWA standards.
      (3)   All structures and valve boxes must be clean and free of
construction debris.
      (4)   The Developer shall submit record drawings, which must include rim
elevations, pipe size and tie downs to all water main appurtenances.
      (5)   Mark all bends using an iron bar as shown on the Village standard
detail sheet.
   (b)   Final Acceptance Approved record drawings, one (1) electronic Copy on
disk in AutoCAD format" one (1) electronic copy in Acrobat PDF format, and two
(2) sets of prints sealed by a Registered Professional Civil Engineer licensed
to practice in the State of Michigan according to State of Michigan
Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, shall be submitted to the Village
prior to final acceptance of the water mains. If the Village determines the
watermain has deficiencies, they shall. be corrected to the Village's
satisfaction prior to the Village accepting the watermain.
**** ARTICLE IX. SANITARY SEWERS SYSTEM ****
Section 64-44. Plans and Specifications -Submittal procedure.
   (a)   The plans and specifications shall be submitted in accordance with
"General Requirements &Submittals",
   (b)   The Applicant may proceed with sanitary sewer permitting once the
Village has conducted an initial review of the entire construction plan
submittal and all revisions pertaining to the sanitary sewer have been
completed.
   (c)   The Applicant must submit the four (4) sets of final plans with the
MDEQ permit application for signature, along with prepaid envelopes, or
packages for mailing to MDEQ. Once the Village approves the application wit the
prints, the Village will sign the application and submit to the MDEQ in the
prepaid envelopes.
Section 64-45. Plans and Specifications -Design considerations: general.
   (a)   All sanitary sewer designs shall be developed conforming to the
current edition of "Recommended Standards for Waste Water Facilities",
published by Health Education Services, also known as the "Ten State Standards"
and the MDEQ requirements.
   (b)   Prior to starting any sanitary sewer design, the applicant is
encouraged to make use of maps and information available at the Village
offices. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to field check and
verify utility locations provided by the Village.
   (c)   The Developer shall research to determine if the sewer has adequate
capacity to handle the anticipated volumes. Such research shall be provided to
the Village for review and may be required for the MDEQ permit.
   (d)   A cover sheet shall show, in addition to those items required in the
General Requirements & Submittals, the following:
      (1)   Overall layout of the sewer system with manhole numbers and
direction of- flow arrows shall be shown. Existing and proposed sewers shall be
shown with different symbols and line types.
      (2)   A flow calculation for the service area and any future service area
that may be ultimately served by the proposed sewers shall be submitted.
   (e)   In general, construction of all sanitary sewers eight (8) inch in
diameter and larger, or if a sewer services more than one dwelling unit, shall
be considered a public sanitary sewer and will require a permit from the MDEQ.
If the Developer determines that it is not possible to service their
development with a gravity flow sewer, then the Developer shall discuss the
alternatives with the Village.
   (g)   Lift stations, grinder pumps, and low-pressure sewers will require
specific approval from the Village. Design of such will be required to provide
for future growth in the design parameters.
   (h)   Soil borings, two (2) feet below design grade (minimum), shall be
taken by an independent testing laboratory or qualified professional at
intervals not to exceed five hundred (500) feet. Additional borings may be
required where the USDA Soil Surveyor onsite inspection indicates unstable soil
may be present.
Section 64-46. Plan and profile sheets.
   (a)   The plan portion of the sheet shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   Existing topography and all existing or planned surface or
underground improvements in streets or easements in which sewer construction is
proposed or in contiguous areas, if pertinent to design and construction.
      (2)   Location, length, size and direction of flow of each section of the
proposed sewer between manholes.
      (3)   Locations of all manholes and other sewer appurtenances and special
structures.
      (4)   Building sewers or wye branches are to be constructed or installed
concurrently with sewer construction with locations at easement and/or property
lines .
   (b)   The profile portion of the sheet shall appear below the plan portion,
generally projected vertically, and shall show, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Size, slope, type, class of pipe and class of bedding material and
controlling invert elevations for each section of proposed sewer between
manholes.
      (2)   Limits of special backfill requirements.
      . (3)   Location of existing or proposed utilities crossing the line of
the sewer or otherwise affecting sewer construction.
      (4)   Location by station, of every proposed manhole with manhole number,
invert elevation of all inlet or outlet pipes, top of casting elevation and
manhole size.
      (5)   Length of run between manholes.
      (6)   Location by station, from downstream manhole of all building sewers
or Y branches to be constructed or installed concurrently with the proposed
sewer construction.
      (7)   Existing and proposed ground elevation above the route of the
sewer.
      (8)   Invert elevation at property line for building sewers to be
included with sewer construction.
      (9)   Manholes shall be identified by numbers assigned consecutively and
increasing in direction opposite to direction of flow in each sewer,
      (10)   All elevations shall be on U.S.G.S. datum.
      (11)   There shall be a minimum of two (2) benchmarks with one (1)
benchmark at least every 1,200 feet.
Section 64-47. Location of sanitary sewers.
   (a)   Sanitary sewers shall generally be located on opposite sides of
streets from water mains and shall, whenever possible, be installed on the
SOUTH side of an east-west street and on the east side of a north-south street
   (b)   Generally, sanitary sewers shall be installed in a public street right
of way or in easements exclusively reserved for such use.
   (c)   Sewers shall be constructed outside of paved parking areas, streets,
and drives, whenever possible. The Village shall not be liable to repair
improved areas within an easement.
   (d)   Sewers shall be installed parallel to the property lines or building
lines.
   (e)   Sanitary sewers shall maintain ten (10) feet of horizontal separation
from all parallel utilities.
   (f)   Sanitary sewer crossings of other utilities shall have a minimum
vertical clearance of eighteen (18) inches, with the sanitary sewer placed
below the other utility.
Section 64-48. Easements.
   (a)   Easements for possible extensions or looped connections shall be
extended to the property line at locations designated by the Village.
   (b)   Any required sanitary sewer easements shall be a minimum of twenty
(20) feet wide. The Village shall require additional easement width when sewer
size or depth and soils or other conditions warrant a wider easement. Easements
are required for all public sanitary sewers serving more than one (1) parcel.
   (c)   The easement descriptions shall extend a minimum of twenty (20) feet
beyond the last structure. The easement documents shall contain a provision
prohibiting the construction of or locating of any above ground structures
within the limits of such easements.
Section 64-49. Drop Connection.
   (a)   Internal drop connections are required at manholes where the invert of
the outlet pipe is twenty-four (24) .inches or more below the invert of the
inlet pipe. This condition should generally be avoided and such connection
shall only be permitted upon specific approval of the Village Engineer.
   (b)   External drop connections are not allowed, unless specifically
approved by the Village Engineer.
Section 64-50. Directional boring or bore &Jack.
Where conditions require directional boring or bore & jack, consult the Village
for specific requirements. Where sanitary sewers or sanitary sewer leads cross
improved roads of any type, the pipe shall be installed by directional boring
or bore & jack (placed in a steel casing pipe), unless approved otherwise by
the Village. All boring work shall be in accordance with the current MOOT
standards and as approved by the Village.
Section 64-51. Extensions and future connections.
Where the sanitary sewer must be extended from off-site, sanitary sewer leads
extending two (2) feet beyond the property line of all adjacent property (after
approval of temporary construction easements on the properties) on both sides
of the right of way, the entire length of the off-site sanitary sewer
installation shall be provided. Such extensions shall be the responsibility of
the developer.
Section 64-52. Manhole locations.
   (a)   Manholes shall be constructed at every change in sewer grade,
alignment, and pipe size and at the end of each sewer line. Maximum distance
between manholes shall not exceed four hundred (400) feet.
   (b)   Where future connections, to a manhole are anticipated, stubs with
watertight bulkheads shall be provided.
Section 64-53. Hydraulic Calculations.
   (a)   Calculations shall be provided.
   (b)   Minimum and Maximum Velocities:
Minimum design velocities for gravity and low pressure sanitary sewers shall be
two (2) feet per second and a maximum design velocity shall be ten (10) feet
per second with pipe flowing full.
Section 64-54. Allowances for changes in pipe size
   (a)   Maximum flow velocity for full pipe flow shall be maintained by
continuity of the 0.80 diameter depth above invert for pipe size increases and
also with intersecting sewer grade raised to compensate for head loss due to
direction change.
   (b)   Provide a drop of 0.05 feet in the downstream sewer invert for all
manholes to compensate for velocity head loss of the incoming flow and 0.10 for
any change in direction.
Section 64-55. Building sewers.
   (a)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village, construction of building
sewers shall be included with the construction of each sanitary sewer from the
public sewer to the easement and/or property line for each fronting parcel that
the sewer is designed to serve
   (b)   Where construction of building sewers to the property line is not
required concurrently with sanitary sewer construction, a Y branch with riser,
if required, and a watertight stopper or plug with type of joint used for the
sewer pipe shall be installed for every lot or building site that the sewer is
designed to serve .
   (c)   Minimum size for building sewers shall be based on proposed flow and
slope. Each structure shall have a separate individual sanitary service lead
connected to a public sanitary sewer.
   (d)   For service leads beyond the right of way, cleanouts shall be
provided, where necessary for approval.
Section 64-56. Sewer capacity design.
   (a)   Tributary Area
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall be designed to serve all tributary areas,
with due consideration given to topography, the master sanitary sewer plan,
established zoning and the adopted Master Land Use Plan,
   (b)   Population
      (1)   For design purposes, population shall be based on a minimum of 3.5
persons per detached single-family home site (or equivalent single family
unit), and 2.5 persons for each multiple-family dwelling unit.
      (2)   Submissions for review shall include a tabulation of occupancy
(usage) types and the conversion of these into terms of equivalent single-
family units. The areas of the site, in acres, may be used to calculate
dwelling units based on density allowed in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (c)   Sewage Quantities for Pipe Design
      (1)   For all service areas, sewer design flows shall be in accordance
with the "Ten State Standards".
Section 64-57. Acceptance of utilities
   (a)   Preliminary Acceptance
      (1)   Prior to acceptance, all sanitary sewers shall be flushed and
cleaned in accordance with Village Standards.
      (2)   Air Test or Infiltration Test shall be completed in accordance with
the "Ten State Standards" with test results submitted.
      (3)   Televising shall be completed in accordance with the requirements
established by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   The Developer shall submit record drawings, which must include rim
elevations, inverts, pipe size, pipe material, and slopes.
   (b)   Final Acceptance
-Approved record drawings, one (1) electronic Copy on disk in AutoCAD format"
one (1) electronic copy in Acrobat PDF format, and two (2) sets of prints
sealed by a Registered Professiona I Civil Engineer licensed to practice in the
State of Michigan according to State of Michigan Occupational Code, Public Act
299 of 1980, shall be submitted to the Village prior to final acceptance of the
sanitary sewer. The Village will review the record drawings and video tapes to
determine if the sewer is acceptable. If the Village determines the sewer has
deficiencies, they shall be corrected to the Village's satisfaction prior to
the Village accepting the sewer.
**** ARTICLE IX. STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEMS ****
Section 64-58. Plans and Specifications -Submittal procedure.
The plans and specifications shall be submitted in accordance with Requirements
& Submittals.
Section 64-59. Plans and Specifications -Design considerations: general.
   (a)   All storm sewer designs shall be developed conforming to the current
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) and any Phase 1\ of the Storm
Water Regulations requirements .
   (b)   Storm sewer systems for roadways and individual parcels less than
thirty (30) acres (not including off site drainage areas) shall be designed for
a ten (10) year storm by means of the rational method formula: Q=CIA; where Q
is the peak rate of runoff in cubic feet per second, A is the area in acres, C
is the co-efficient of runoff for the drainage area and I is the average
rainfall intensity in inches per hour for a certain time of concentration. The
rainfall intensity shall be determined by the formula: 1=175/(T+25); where Tis
the time of concentration equal to the time required for a drop of water to run
from the remote point of the watershed to the point for which runoff ls being
estimated. In most instances, an initial T equal to twenty (20) minutes for
residential areas can be used. Use T equal to fifteen (15) minutes in other
land use areas.
Larger drainage areas shall be designed by a method approved by the Village.
The calculations submitted shall indicate the following information for each
pipe: Drainage District Number, Structure Number of Receiving and Collecting
Structures, Area, "C" Factor, Intensity, "Q", Length, Size and Slope of Pipe
Run, Velocity, Pipe Capacity, Rim Elevation and Elevation of the Hydraulic
Gradient.
   (c)   The Developer's engineer shall use judgment in arriving at proper
imperviousness factors, but in general, the following "c" factors are
acceptable minimums. The applicant shall submit calculations to justify the "c"
factors used.
      (1)   Lawn areas                  0.2
      (2)   Pavement and roof areas            0. 9
      (3)   Overall area of single-family subdivision      0.35
      (4)   Overall area of multiple housing development   0.55
      (5)   Overall area of commercial development      0.80
      (6)   Overall area of industrial development      0.80
   (d)   The plans shall include a hydraulic design calculation for each run of
pipe and open channel. Flow velocities shall be calculated using Manning's
equation.
   (e)   The 10-year storm hydraulic gradient for non-submerged drain systems
shall be maintained below the top of the sewer pipe.
   (f)   A drainage area map showing all watershed areas, runoff coefficients,
acreage of each area and proposed drainage system in plan view, shall be
included with the plans.
   (g)   All off-site drainage flowing onto the site shall be included in the
drainage area map and such flows provided for in the design calculations.
   (h)   Storm water detention or retention is required for all developments in
the Village.
   (i)   Storm water shall discharge to a natural watercourse, established
drainage system, or drainage area where a dedicated easement exists for the
purpose of drainage. In no case shall the storm system discharge onto adjacent
property without an easement.
Section 64-60. Plan and Profile -general.
   (a)   All storm sewers shall be shown in Plan and Profile, with the profile
generally shown below the plan view. All structures and end sections shall be
sequentially labeled in both plan and profile views.
   (b)   Scale of plan portion of sheet shall be no smaller than 1 inch = 50
feet, with scale of profile portion of sheet, 1 inch = 50 feet horizontal, and
1 inch =5 feet vertical.
   (c)   All elevations shall be on U.S.G.S. datum.
Section 64-61. Plan ll'iew.
   (a)   Plan portion of sheet shall include, at a minimum:
      (1)   Existing topography and all existing and planned surface and
underground improvements in streets and easements in which sewer construction
is proposed, and in contiguous areas if pertinent to design and construction.
      (2)   Location and direction of flow of each section of proposed sewer
between manholes.
      (3)   Locations of all manholes and other sewer appurtenances and special
structures, with proposed rim elevations for ali inlets and catch basins.
      (4)   Elevations shall be on U.S.G.S. Datum. There shall be a minimum of
two (2) benchmarks and one (1) benchmark at least every 1,200 feet.
Section 64-62. Profile View.
   (a)   Profile portion of sheet shall appear below companion plan portion,
generally projected vertically and, as a minimum, show the following:
      (1)   Size, slope, length, type, and class of pipe, and controlling
invert elevations for each section of proposed sewer between manholes.
      (2)   Limits of special backfill requirements.
      (3)   Profile (over centerline of proposed sewer) of existing and
proposed . finished ground and pavement surfaces.
      (4)   If the hydraulic grade is provided in the calculations, then it
does not have to be shown on the profile.
      (5)   Location of existing and proposed utilities crossing the line of
the sewer or otherwise affecting sewer construction.
      (6)   Location, by station, of every proposed manhole with manhole
number, invert elevation of all inlet and outlet pipes, and top of casting
elevation.
   (b)   Manholes shall be identified by numbers assigned consecutively and
increasing in magnitude in the direction opposite to the direction of flow.
   (c)   All catch basin and inlet leads shall have a minimum slope of one
percent (1 %).
Section 64-63. Location of sewers.
   (a)   Storm sewers shall generally be located on the same sides of streets
as water mains, and generally within the street right of way .
   (b)   For subdivisions, storm sewers shall be located in the public road
right of way or in easements adjacent to the public road right of way. Storm
sewers shall not be located in rear yards, except to pick up rear yard drainage
or in unusual circumstances, or for sump pump discharge lines.
   (c)   The horizontal alignment of sewers, which are not proposed to
generally follow street, drive, or parking area pavements, shall parallel
property lines or building lines with clearance distances sufficient to
accommodate the full width of any proposed easement.
   (d)   Where possible, provide a minimum of two and one-half (21/2) feet of
cover from the top of finish road or earth grade to the top of any storm sewer.
   (e)   In parking areas, catch basins should be located in the gutter or
parking stall areas. Catch basins in the driving areas should be avoided when
possible.
Section 64-64. Catch basins and inlets shall be located in general.
   (a)   The flows do not exceed the intake capacity of the structure casting .
   (b)   At all low points in gutters and in swales and ditches, where
applicable.
   (c)   At the upstream, curb return, if more than two hundred (200) feet
downstream of a high point in the gutter, or as required preventing water from
crossing an intersection.
   (d)   Catch basins shall be spaced no more than three hundred and fifty
(350) feet from the crest of the road. Subsequent catch basins shall be spaced
a maximum of four hundred (400) feet apart.
   (e)   Yard catch basins shall be provided at all low points in drainage
swales. Provide intercepting yard catch basins such that not more than four
hundred ( 400) feet of swale drainage runs into anyone (1) catch basin, other
than a low point catch basin where six hundred (600) feet of drainage is
allowed.
Section 64-65. Catch basins and inlets shall be located, in general:
   (a)   Manholes shall be located at:
      (1)   All changes in alignment.
      (2)   Points where the size of the sewer changes.
      (3)   Points where the grade of the sewer changes.
      (4)   The junction of sewer lines.
      (5)   Street intersections or other points where catch basins or inlets
are to be connected.
   (b)   Manhole spacing for storm sewers shall be as follows:
 
Diameter of Sewer Maximum Manhole Spacing
12" to 42"        400 feet
48" to 60"        500 feet
66" and larger    600 feet
 
   (c)   Where future connections to a manhole are anticipated, stubs with
watertight bulkheads shall be provided.
Section 64-66. Covers for manholes, catch basins, and inlets.
Catch basins and inlets shall be located, in general:
Description Grate E.J.I.W. #or Equal*
Description         Grate               E.J.I.W. #or Equal*
Solid Cover         A                   1040
Flat Grate (Round)  Ml                  1040
Low Curb Inlet      Ml, Dump No Waste   7066
Flat Grate (Square) Ml -Dump No Waste   5100
                    & Fish Image (5105)
Low Beehive Inlet   Dump No Waste       6517
High Beehive Inlet  Dump No Waste       6508
High Curb Inlet     Ml, Dump No Waste   7045
*East Jordan Iron Works (EJIW)
 
Section 64-67. Hydraulics.
   (a)   Minimum pipe size for sewers, catch basin leads, and inlet leads shall
be twelve (12) inch nominal internal diameter. Rear yard storm sewers may be a
reduced size, if approved by the Village Engineer.
   (b)   Minimum design velocity shall be two and one-half (2.5) feet per
second and maximum design velocity shall be ten (10) feet per second, with pipe
flowing full.
   (c)   Design life of enclosed storm sewers a!ld bridges shall be fifty (50)
years or more, except for driveway culverts in open ditch areas, which shall
have a design life of twenty (20) years or more.
Section 64-68. Open drains.
   (a)   Where proposed, open drains shall be designed to convey the upstream
design flow. A one (1) foot freeboard shall be provided.
   (b)   Side slopes of open drains shall have a maximum slope of one (1) foot
vertical to six (6) feet horizontal, except that a low flow channel (roadside
ditches, rear yard swales, etc.) may have side slopes of one (1) foot vertical
to three (3) feet horizontal. Open drain side slopes shall have an established
sod surfacing or be seeded, fertilized and mulched as soon as possible after
construction.
   (c)   Open drains must have slope protection (i.e. riprap, gabion baskets,
etc.) at bends, under bridges and at other critical points required by the
Village.
   (d)   The Village will not accept the work until all turf is established.
   (e)   Hydraulic calculations for open channel flow shall be provided to
assure the channel has adequate conveyance. Velocities shall be kept to a
minimum, less than four (4) cfs, to prevent scour.
Section 64-69. End section and bar screens.
An end section with prefabricated bar screen shall be installed on the end of
all storm sewers fifteen (15) inches in diameter and larger. Openings of the
bar screen shall be no more than six (6) inches on centers and shall be
designed to be sturdy, permanent, easily maintained, and non-clogging.
Section 64-70. Acceptance of Utilities
   (a)   Preliminary Acceptance
      (1)   Prior to acceptance, all sewers shall be flushed and cleaned in
accordance with Village Standards.
      (2)   The Developer shall submit record drawings, which must include rim
elevations, inverts, pipe size, and slopes.
   (b)   Final Acceptance
      (1)   Approved record drawings, one (1) electronic Copy on disk in
AutoCAD format" one (1) electronic copy in Acrobat PDF format, and two (2) sets
of prints sealed by a Registered Professional Civil Engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Michigan according to State of Michigan Occupational
Code, Public Act 2.99 of 1980, shall be submitted to the Village prior to final
acceptance of' the sewer. The Village will review the record drawings to
determine if the sewer is acceptable. If the Village determines the sewer has
deficiencies, they shall be corrected to the Village's satisfaction prior to
the Village accepting the sewer.
**** ARTICLE X. STORM WATER DETENTION AND RETENTION FACILITIES ****
Section 64-71. Plans and Specifications -Submittal Procedure.
   (a)   All plans, specifications, and calculations for detention basins and
storm water storage shall be submitted, in accordance with Article III-General
Requirements &Submittals.
   (b)   Detention or Retention Basin plans are required to be submitted along
with all new storm drainage system plans.
Section 64-72. Design Criteria:
   (a)   Detention basins shall be designed to detain the volume of runoff from
the entire site, resulting from a ten (10) year frequency storm. Detention is
not required for flows originating offsite that flow through the site, unless
the receiving storm facilities cannot handle the offsite flow.
   (b)   Detention basins shall drain by gravity. Pumped basins shall be
considered, in extreme cases, and approved by the Village.
   (c)   Detention basins shall discharge to a natural watercourse, established
drainage system, or drainage area where a dedicated easement exists for the
purpose of drainage. In no case shall a basin or system discharge onto adjacent
property without an easement.
   (d)   In general, the Oakland County "A Simple Method of Detention Basin
Design" method shall be used for detention. Basin sizing discharge of detention
basins shall be limited to 0.2 cfs per acre of the site, but in no case shall
exceed the capacity of the receiving stream or body of water. In the event that
the receiving stream cannot properly convey the 0.2 cfs per acre design
discharge, the discharge shall be limited to the existing capacity of the
receiving system and must have the outlet pipe invert above the normal water
level. Hydraulic calculations may be required by the Village showing the
existing capacity of the receiving stream for their review.
   (e)   All basins must have a minimum of twelve (12) inches of freeboard
above the design high water elevation.
   (f)   All basins must be designed with an overflow to control flooding. The
overflow shall discharge to an existing drainage system or storm drain. If a
weir overflow is used, sufficient erosion protection must be incorporated into
the design. Calculations for the overflow design must accompany the plans.
   (g)   Where orifice restrictors are used, multiple orifices are to be used
with a minimum size of 1" and maximum of 4" rounded to the nearest sizes. If
multiple numbers of smaller holes is a better representative of the flow,
provide multiple holes. The standpipe shall have stone around it to filter the
water. The standpipe shall have a sump for cleaning.
   (h)   Erosion control protection such as riprap, placed on filter fabric,
shall be used at all entrances and exists to the basin. Riprap may be natural
stone or clean broken concrete, a minimum of four (4) inches in diameter.
   (i)   Exterior side slopes of basins shall not be steeper than four (4)
horizontal to one (1) vertical or 4:1. Interior side slopes shall not exceed
six (6) horizontal to one ( 1 ) vertical or 6: 1, unless approved by the
Village. All basins must be fenced, if the maximum side slopes specified herein
are exceeded. The Village may waive fencing when the design is an integral part
of the landscaping and the variance from these Engineering Design Standards
does not present a potential hazard. Fences shall be a minimum of six (6) feet
high, vinyl clad chain link, with a locking access gate, eight (8) feet wide.
Alternate types of fencing may be permitted for aesthetic purposes, subject to
approval by the Village.
   (j)   The bottom of the basin shall have a minimum grade of one percent
(1.0%) from the perimeter toward the flow line. The slope of the flow line to
the outlet shall have a minimum grade of one-half percent (0.5%). All inlet and
outlet pipes twelve (12) inches in diameter and larger shall have a bar screen,
.a flared end section and riprap.
   (k)   The entire detention basin area must be seeded (MOOT Class A seed) or
sodded (MDOT Class B sod) and the turf shall be fully established before the
Village approves the detention basin for operation and maintenance. Straw mats
or mulch blankets may be required for steeper banks or when storm water enters
via sheet flow.
   (I)   Retention basins (basins with no outlet) must be sized to accommodate
two (2) consecutive one hundred (100) year storms (as calculated by the Oakland
County method for retention). Documentation by a licensed Professional Engineer
.must be submitted to support that the basin will percolate into the soils
naturally, with an estimate of the time to accomplish this, based on hydraulic
calculations. The Village will determine the acceptance of the design.
   (m)   Parking lot storage is not allowed, unless there is no other feasible
alternative. Maximum depth of storage is six (6) inches. No storage is allowed
near the entry and exit ways of the building or designated handicapped parking
spaces.
   (n)   In commercial areas, such as gas stations, where the entire site is
paved and the site area is extremely limited, detention may be accomplished via
underground storage tanks or oversized storm pipes. Large diameter pipe and
cover material shall be designed to comply with the requirements of the Village
Engineer.
   (o)   Minimum isolation (setback from property lines) of all basins shall be
no less than twenty (20) feet.
Section 64-73. Maintenance agreement
An agreement for operation and/or maintenance of the detention basin system
must be executed by the developer and submitted to and accepted by the Village.
The agreement, as to both form and content, shall be subject to the approval of
the Village legal counsel.
Section 64-74. Easements and access.
   (a)   For all new residential development, the property in which the
detention basin is located upon must be contained in an easement deeded for
detention purposes only.
   (b)   A minimum twenty (20) foot wide access easement shall be provided.
   (c)   At a minimum, twelve (12) foot wide gravel or grass pavers access
drive shall be located within the above easement for maintenance purposes.
Section 64-75. Acceptance of utilities.
   (a)   Preliminary Acceptance
      (1)   Prior to acceptance, all detention areas cleaned in accordance with
Village Standards.
      (2)   The Developer shall submit record drawings, which must include rim
elevations, inverts, pipe size, and slopes.
   (b)   Final Acceptance
Approved record drawings, one (1) electronic Copy on disk in AutoCAD format"
one (1) electronic copy in Acrobat PDF format, and two (2) sets of prints
sealed by a Registered Professional Civil Engineer licensed to practice in the
State of Michigan according to State of Michigan Occupational Code, Public Act
299 of 1980, shall be submitted to the Village prior to final acceptance of the
detention or retention facility. The Village will review the record drawings to
determine if the detention or retention facility is acceptable. If the Village
determines the detention or. retention facility has deficiencies, they shall be
corrected to the Village's satisfaction prior to the Village's acceptance.
**** ARTICLE XI. SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL ****
Section 64-76. Submittal procedure.
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plans shall be incorporated into any
plans submitted. A Sanilac County Soil Erosion Control Permit is required.
Section 64-77. Plan requirements.
The Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plans shall contain the following
data and other information as required by the county or other agencies on
sheets twenty-four inch by thirty-six inch (24" x 36"), using the USGS Vertical
Datum.
   (a)   Public and private roads in the area and all adjacent properties and
the extent of site grading, all to at least one hundred (100) feet outside site
boundaries.
   (b)   Topographic plan scale, one inch equals fifty feet (l" = 50') to one
hundred (100) feet beyond site boundaries showing:
      (1) Existing ground elevations, with either two (2) foot contour
intervals or spot elevations on a fifty (50) foot grid.
      (2)   Existing structures and significant features including trees six
(6) inches in diameter or larger, existing ground cover, extent and condition.
      (3)   Existing drainage and soil information.
   (c)   Site Grading and Development Plans as required under other sections of
the Village of Lexington Engineering Design Standards for all proposed
utilities on the site.
   (d)   The Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   Description and location of the limits for all proposed earth
changes.
      (2)   Description and location of all soil erosion measures.
      (3)   The timing and sequence of all proposed earth changes.
      (4)   Information as to how excavated material will be handled and stored
to prevent erosion.
      (5)   Information on trench backfill restoration including schedule of
placement.
      (6)   Information concerning the existing drainage system including a
provision for maintenance.
Section 64-78. Notes.
The following notes shall appear on the plans:
   (a)   Daily inspections shall be made by the Contractor for effectiveness of
erosion and sedimentation control measures and any necessary repairs shall be
performed without delay.
   (b)   Any sedimentation from work on this site shall be contained on the
site and not allowed to collect on any off site areas or In waterways.
   (c)   Contractor shall apply temporary erosion and sedimentation control
measures when required and as directed on these plans. The Contractor shall
remove temporary measures as soon as permanent stabilization of slopes, ditches
and other earth changes have been accomplished. This would include temporary
sedimentation ponds.
   (d)   Staging the work will be done by the Contractor as directed in these
plans and as required to ensure progressive stabilization of disturbed earth.
   (e)   . Soil erosion control practices shall be established in the early
stages of construction by the Contractor. Sediment control practices will be
applied as a perimeter defense against any transporting of silt off the site.
Section 64-79. Principles of erosion and sediment control.
   (a)   Plan the development to fit the topography, soils, waterways, and
natural vegetation at a site with the least necessary earth disturbance or
change.
   (b)   Expose the smallest practical area of land for the shortest practical
time through staging the work and early application of temporary or permanent
erosion control measures.
   (c)   Apply soil erosion control measures as a first line of defense against
on site damage, to prevent sediment from being produced. These measures
included special grading methods, run- off control structures, temporary and
permanent vegetation.
   (d)   Apply sedimentation control measures as a perimeter protection to
prevent off site damage. These measures include diversion ditches, sediment
traps, vegetative filters, and sediment basins.
   (e)   Apply follow up and periodic maintenance for continued effectiveness
of control measures.
Section 64-80. Engineering design standards.
   (a)   Riprap is required at all locations where storm water velocities may
be erosive to soils. Riprap shall be placed at all storm water inlets, outlets,
and basin outlets. Riprap shall be a nominal four (4) inch to six (6) inch
minimum diameter and be clean of any foreign material.
   (b)   Newly constructed storm water facilities shall be constructed to
control flow velocities to limit erosion.
   (c)   The plans shall, based on the nature of the proposed development,
contain a time schedule for the installation of permanent soil erosion control
measures.
   (d)   If specific details are required for soil erosion control measures,
they shall be shown on the plans.
   (e)   Soil erosion controls shall be used to prevent silt from entering
public roadways and storm sewers at all times.
   (f)   All disturbed areas shall restored in accordance with the landscaping
standards provided in this Ordinance.
   (g)   Crushed aggregate mud mats 100 feet long by 26 feet (100' x 26') wide,
at a minimum, shall be used at the entrance of construction sites.
   (h)   On larger projects or when phasing is involved, the developer may be
required to provide alternate construction drives to the site to avoid damage
to newly constructed streets. A crushed aggregate mud mat should be used any
time the new approach is used for construction traffic. All construction drives
shall be approved by the Village .
**** ARTICLE XII. LANDSCAPING ESTABLISHMENT AND RESTORATION STANDARDS ****
Section 64-81. Plans and Specifications -Submittal procedure.
The plans and specifications shall be submitted in accordance with "General
Requirements & Submittals".
Section 64-82. Plans and Specifications -Design considerations: general.
All Landscaping designs shall be developed conforming to the current Zoning
Ordinance'
Section 64-83. Quality assurance.
   (a)   Testing of supplied and/or stockpiled topsoil shall be performed by a
qualified independent testing laboratory normally engaged in agronomic soil
testing. Each soil sample tested shall be a composite of five to. seven
subsamples taken the full depth of proposed source. Discard upper 6 inches of
stockpiled topsoil before collecting samples. All costs for collecting and
testing of topsoil shall be borne by the Contractor.
   (b)   Required Topsoil Tests:
      (1)   Chemical analysis indicating:
         a.   fertility: pH, nitrate nitrogen, ammonia nitrogen, phosphate,
phosphorous, potassium, calcium, magnesium.
         b.   suitability: total salinity, boron, sodium, potassium, calcium,
magnesium, chloride, sulfate.
      (2)   Physical properties including:
         a.   organic content
         b.   particle size distribution
   (c)   Plant names indicated, comply with "Standardized Plant Names" as
adopted by the latest edition of the American Joint Committee of Horticultural
Nomenclature. Names of varieties not listed conform generally with names
accepted by the nursery trade. Provide stock true to botanical name and legibly
tagged.
   (d)   Comply with sizing and grading standards of the latest edition of
"American Standard for Nursery Stock". A plant shall be dimensioned as it
stands in its natural position.
   (e)   All plants shall be nursery grown under climatic conditions similar to
those in the locality of the project for a minimum of 2 years .
   (f)   Stock furnished shall be at least the minimum size indicated. Larger
stock is acceptable, at no additional charge. Larger plants shall not be cut
back to size indicated.
   (g)   Provide "specimen" plants with a special height, shape or character of
growth. Landscape Contractor to tag specimen trees or shrubs at the source of
supply. The VILLAGE will inspect specimen selections at the source of supply
for suitability and adaptability to selected location. When specimen plants
cannot be purchased locally, provide sufficient photographs of the proposed
specimen plants for approval. The Landscape Contractor shall inspect all plant
material at source prior to VILLAGE's approval. Landscape Contractor shall
accompany VILLAGE on final selection trip.
   (h)   Such approval shall not impair the right of inspection and rejection
upon delivery at the site or during the progress of the work.
   (i)   Provide percolation testing by filling plant pits with water and
monitoring length of time for water to completely percolate into soil. Submit
test results to VILLAGE prior to starting work.
Section 64-84. DELIVERY, STORAGE AND HANDLING.
   (a)   Deliver seed and fertilizer materials in original unopened containers,
showing weight, analysis and name of manufacturer. Store in a manner to prevent
wetting and deterioration.
   (b)   The irrigation system will be installed prior to seeding. Locate,
protect and maintain the irrigation system during seeding operations. Repair
irrigation. Deliver fertilizer materials in original, unopened and undamaged
containers showing weight, analysis and name of manufacturer. Store in manner
to prevent wetting and deterioration.
   (c)   Take all precautions customary in good trade practice in preparing
plants for moving. Workmanship that fails to meet the highest standards will be
rejected. Spray deciduous plants in foliage with an approved "Anti-Desiccant"
immediately after digging to prevent dehydration. Dig, pack, transport and
handle plants with care to ensure protection against injury. Inspection
certificates required by law shall accompany each shipment invoice or order to
stock and on arrival. A copy of certificate shall be filed with the VILLAGE.
Protect all plants from drying out. If plants cannot be planted immediately
upon delivery, properly protect them with soil, wet peat moss or in a manner
acceptable to the VILLAGE. Water heeled-in plantings as required to keep root
system moist until planting. No plant shall be bound with rope or wire in a
manner that could damage or break the branches.
   (d)   Cover plants transported on open vehicles with a protective covering
to prevent windburn.
   (e)   Frozen or muddy topsoil is not acceptable. Fix irrigation system
components damaged during seeding operations at this Contractor's expense.
Section 64-85. PROJECT CONDITIONS:
   (a)   Protect existing utilities, paving and other facilities from damage
caused by seeding operations. Protect existing trees, plants, lawns and other
features designated to remain as part of the landscaping work.
   (b)   Perform seeding work only after planting and other work affecting
ground surface has been completed.
   (c)   Provide hose arrd lawn watering equipment as required.
   (d)   Promptly repair damage to.adjacent facilities caused by topsoil
operations. Cost of repair at Contractor's expense.
   (e)   Promptly notify the VILLAGE of unexpected sub-surface conditions.
   (f)   A complete list of plants, including a schedule of sizes, quantities
and other requirements is shown on the proposal form. In the event that
quantity discrepancies or material omissions occur in the proposal form,
Contractor shall notify the VILLAGE during the proposal bidding process.
Section 64-86. SEEDING AND TOPSOIL.
   (a)   Provide topsoil as required to complete job. Topsoil must meet testing
criteria results specified. All processing, cleaning and preparation of this
topsoil to render it acceptable for use is the responsibility of this
contractor.
   (b)   Supplied and/or stockpiled topsoil, shall be fertile, sandy loam soil
without admixture of subsoil and free of stones, stumps, root, trash, debris,
and other materials deleterious to plant growth. Topsoil shall not frozen or
muddy. Ph of existing or supplied soil to range between 6.3 and not more than
7.0. Topsoil that does not meet this pH range shall be amended with approved pH
adjusters. Topsoil shall contain not less than 3% and not greater than 10%
organic matter determined by loss through ignition.
   (c)   Seed: Fresh, clean and new crop seed mixture. Mixed by approved
methods.
   (d)   Composed of the following varieties, mixed to the specified
proportions by weight and tested to minimum percentages of purity and
germination.
   (e)   Seed Mixture: Proportioned by weight as indicated below:
 
Creeping Red Fescue  60%
Baron Ken. Bluegrass 30%
Perennial Rye        20%
Spread at a rate of 8 lbs./1000 sf., No noxious weed seeds permitted.
 
   (f)   Fertilizer: 13-25-12. Granular, non-burning product composed of not
less than 50% organic slow acting, guaranteed analysis, professional
fertilizer.
   (g)   Ground Iimestone: Used if required by soil test report. Containing not
less than 85% of total carbonates and ground to such fineness that 50% will
pass through a 100 mesh sieve and 90% will pass through a 20% mesh sieve.
   (h)   Granulated sulfur 0-0-0-90 to lower PH. Use if determined by soil
tests to be necessary. Apply per soil test recommendations at specified rate .
   (i)   Straw mulch: Used in crimping process only. Clean oat or wheat straw
well seasoned before bailing, free from mature seed-bearing stalks or roots of
prohibited or noxious weeds.
   (j)   Water: Free of substance harmful to seed growth. Hoses or other
methods of transportation furnished by Contractor. Test for excess Alkalinity,
if necessary.
   (k)   Wood Cellulose Fiber Mulch: Degradable green dyed wood cellulose fiber
or 100% recycled long fiber pulp, free from weeds or other foreign matter toxic
to seed germination and suitable to hydra mulching.
   (l)   Paper Mulch: Degradable paper mulch, free of foreign debris. Do not
use on slopes over 30%.
   (m)   Tackifier: Liquid concentrate diluted with water forming a transparent
3dimensional film like crust permeable to water and air and containing not
agents toxic to seed germination.
Section 64-87. TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (a)   Plants: Provide plants typical of their species or variety; with
normal, densely developed branches and vigorous, fibrous root systems. Provide
only sound, healthy, vigorous plants free from defects, disfiguring knots,
sunscald injuries, frost cracks, abrasions of the bark, plant diseases, insect
eggs, borers and all forms of infestation. All plants shall have a fully
developed form without voids and open spaces.
      (1)   Dig balled and bur lapped plants with firm, natural balls of earth
of sufficient diameter and depth to encompass the fibrous and feeding root
system necessary for full recovery of the plant. Provide ball sizes complying
with the latest edition of the "American Standard for Nursery Stock". Cracked
or mushroomed balls are not acceptable.
      (2)   Provide tree species that mature at heights over 25'-0" with a
single, main trunk. Trees that have the main trunk forming a "Y" shape are not
acceptable.
      (3)   Trees to have clay or clay loam balls; sandy loam or sand balls are
not acceptable.
      (4)   Plants planted in rows shall be matched in form.
      (5)   Plants larger than those specified in the plant list may be used
when acceptable to the VILLAGE.
      (6)   If the use of larger plants is acceptable, increase the spread of
roots or root ball in proportion to the size of the plant.
      (7)   The height of the trees, specified by height, measured from the
crown of the roots to the top of the top branch, shall not be less than the
minimum size designated in the proposal form.
      (8)   No pruning wounds shall be present with a diameter of more than l"
and such wounds must show vigorous bark on all edges.
      (9)   Evergreen trees shall be unsheared and branched to the ground.
      (10)   Shrubs and small plants shall meet the requirements for spread and
height indicated on the proposal form.
   (b)   Container-grown Stock Grown in a container for sufficient length of
time for the root system to have developed to hold its soil together, firm and
whole.
      (1)   No plants shall be loose in the container.
      (2)   Container stock shall not be root bound.
      (3)    The measurements for height shall be taken from the ground level
to the average height of the top of the plant and not the longest branch.
      (4)   Single stemmed or thin plants will not be accepted.
      (5)   Side branches shall be generous, well twigged and the plant as a
whole well bushed to the ground.
      (6)   Plants shall be in a moist, vigorous condition, free from dead
wood, bruises or other root or branch injuries.
   (c)   Specimen Stock All specimen designated plantings are to be nursery
grown, fully developed, excellent quality and typical example of the species.
Plants designated to be planted in rows must be matched, symmetrical and
uniform in height, spread, caliper and branching density. Matched plantings
should be obtained from same nursery and, preferably, from same row or line.
All specimen material will be approved by VILLAGE at nursery.
   (d)   Peat Moss. Brown to black in color, weed and seed free granulated raw
peat. Provide ASTMD 2607 sphagnum peat moss with a PH below 6.0 for ericaceous
plants.
   (e)   Planting Mixture Type A: Standard planting backfill shall be a mixture
of 1/3 topsoil, 1/3 sand and 1/3 peat per cubic yard of mixture. Add fertilizer
Type "A" to planting mixture per manufacturer's requirements. Follow planting
details.
   (f)   Planting Mixture Type B (for Flowers, Ground Cover Beds, Ericaceous
Plants and Ornamental Grasses): Planting backfill shall be a mixture of 1/
3 topsoil, 1/3 sand and 1/3 peat. Adding fertilizer type "B" to mixture per.
Follow planting details.
   (g)   Plant Fertilizer Type A: "Scotts Pro Grow 18-3-6 landscape fertilizer
plus minors, applied per manufacturer's recommendations.
   (h)   Plant Fertilizer Type B: Approved acid-base fertilizer; "Espoma Holly-
Tonen. 4-6-4 applied per manufacturer's instructions.
   (i)   "MyCor" Tree Saver Soil Conditioner manufactured by Plant Health Care,
Inc., 1-800-421- 9051. Use for all tree and shrub species except Rhododendrons,
Azaleas and Laurels.
   (j)   Superphosphate: Composed of finely ground phosphate rock as commonly.
used for agricultural purposes containing not less than eighteen 18%) percent
available phosphoric acid. Apply as required based upon soil test report.
   (k)   Lime: Ground dolomitic limestone, ninety-five (95%) percent passing
through #100 mesh screen. Use to adjust soil pH only, under direction of
VILLAGE or based upon soil test report.
   (l)   Sand: Clean, coarse, ungraded conforming to ASTM C 3 for fine
aggregates.
   (m)   Anti-Desiccant: Protective film emulsion providing a protective film
over plant surfaces; permeable to permit transpiration. Mixed and applied in
accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
   (n)   Shredded Bark Mulch: Clean, free of debris and sticks, and well
aerated. Materials shall be uniform in size, shape and texture. Submit samples
to owner for approval prior to installation.
   (o)   Water: Free of substances harmful to plant growth. Hoses or other
methods of transportation furnished by Contractor.
   (p)    Stakes for Staking: Hardwood, 2" x 2" x 6'-0" minimum length.
   (q)    Stakes for Guying: Hardwood, 2" x 2" x 36" long.
   (r)   Guying/Staking Wire: No. 11 gauge galvanized wire, or approved
substitute.
   (s)    Turnbuckles: Galvanized steel of size and gauge required to provide
tensile strength equal to that of the wire. Turnbuckle opening shall be at
least 3".
   (t)    Staking and Guying Hose: Two-ply, reinforced garden hose not less
than 1/2" inside diameter.
   (u)    Tree Wrap: Standard waterproofed tree wrapping paper, 2-1/2" wide,
made of 2 layers of crepe kraft paper weighing not less than 30 lbs. per ream,
cemented together with asphalt.
   (v)   Twine: Two-ply jute material.
Section 64-88. FINISH GRADING.
   (a)   Perform top soiling within limits of disturbance, including adjacent
transition areas, to new elevations, levels, profiles, and contours indicated.
Provide uniform levels and slopes between new elevations and existing grades.
   (b)   Grade surfaces to assure areas drain away from building structures and
to prevent ponding and pockets of surface drainage.
   (c)   Lawn Areas: Supply and spread topsoil to a minimum uniform depth of 4"
or as noted. Remove clumps larger than 1" in diameter.
   (d)   Grade lawn areas to a smooth, free draining even surface with a loose,
moderately coarse texture ready to accept seed or sod.
   (e)   Provide earth crowning where indicated on drawings.
   (f)   Crowning/mounding to be free flowing in shape and design, as indicated
and to blend into existing grades gradually so that toe of slope is not readily
visible. VILLAGE to verify final contouring before planting.
   (g)   Regardless of finish grading elevations indicated, it is intended that
grading be such that proper drainage of surface water will occur and that no
low areas are created to allow ponding. Contractor to consult with Owner or
VILLAGE regarding minor variations in grade elevations before rough grading is
completed .
Section 64-89. PREPARATION OF SEEDED LAWN AREAS.
   (a)   Limit preparation to areas, which will be immediately seeded.
   (b)   Treat lawn areas if required with "Round Up", by Monsanto, per label
directions to kill existing vegetation prior to seeding.
   (c)   Loosen topsoil of lawn areas to minimum depth of 4". Remove stones
over 1" in any dimension and sticks, roots, rubbish and extraneous matter.
   (d)   Grade lawn areas to a smooth, free draining even surface with a loose,
moderately coarse texture.
Roll and rake, remove ridges and fill depressions as required to drain.
   (e)   Apply amendments to supplied or existing topsoil, if required by soil
test report, at rate determined by the soil test. Distribute evenly by machine
and incorporate thoroughly into topsoil.
   (f)   Apply fertilizer to indicated turf areas at a rate equal to 1 lb. of
actual nitrogen per 1,000 sq. ft. (43 lbs/acre). Omit this process if applied
with hydroseeding process.
   (g)    Apply fertilizers by mechanical rotary or drop type distributor,
thoroughly and evenly incorporated with soil to a depth of 1" by discing or
other approved method. Fertilize areas inaccessible to power equipment with
hand tools and incorporate into soil.
   (h)   Restore prepared areas to specified condition if eroded, settled or
otherwise disturbed after fine grading and prior to seeding.
Section 64-90. PREPARATION.
   (a)   Time of planting:
      (1)   Evergreen material: Plant evergreen materials between August 15 and
October 1 or in spring before new growth begins. If project requirements
require planting at other times, plants shall be sprayed with anti-dessicant
prior to planting operations.
      (2)   Deciduous material: Plant deciduous materials in a dormant
condition. If deciduous trees are planted in-leaf, they shall be sprayed with
an antidessicant prior to planting operation.
      (3)   Planting times other than those indicated shall be acceptable to
the VILLAGE.
   (b)   Planting shall be performed only by experienced workmen familiar with
planting procedures under the supervision of a qualified supervisor.
   (c)   Individual plant locations shall be staked on the project site by the
Contractor and approved by the VILLAGE before any planting pits are dug. The
VILLAGE reserves the right to adjust plant material locations to meet field
conditions, without additional cost to the Owner.
   (d)    Planting pits shall be round, with vertical sides and flat bottoms
and sized in accordance with outlines and dimensions shown on the planting
details.
   (e)    Accurately stake plant material according to the drawings. Stakes
shall be above grade and painted a bright color to be clearly visible for
inspection.
   (f)    If obstructions are encountered that are not indicated, do not
proceed with planting operations until alternative plant locations have been
selected and approved in writing by the VILLAGE. Where location or spacing
dimensions are not clearly shown, request clarification by the VILLAGE.
   (g)    Vegetation Removal:
      (1)   Strip existing grass and weeds, including roots, from all bed
areas, till and fine grade existing topsoil, leaving the soil surface one inch
below finished grade (in areas shown on plan).
      (2)   Herbicide: Use Round Up (Monsanto Co.) as required to prepare areas
for new planting, applied to all ground cover, evergreen and shrubbery beds and
all mulch areas before application of pre-emergence herbicide, per
manufacturer's recommendations. Clean area of all dead material a er five (5)
days.
      (3)   Pre-Emergence Herbicide: DACTHAL W 75 (Diamond Shamrock
Agricultural Chemicals) applied to one (1) ounce per 100 square feet to same
area where "Herbicide" has been applied and after area is cleared of dead
vegetation.
      (4)   Herbicides to be applied by licensed applicator as required by the
state.
Section 64-91. CLEANING.
   (a)   Upon completion of top soiling operations, clean areas within contract
limits, remove tools and equipment. Site shall be clear, clean, free of debris
and suitable for site work operations.
   (b)   Perform cleaning during installation of the work and upon completion
of the work to the approval of the VILLAGE. Remove from site all excess
materials, debris and equipment. Repair damage resulting from seeding
operations. Clean all areas where overspray has occurred from hydroseeding
operations.
Section 64-92. INSTALLATION.
   (a)   Seed lawns only between April 1 and June 1 and fall seeding between
August 15 and October 15 or at such other times acceptable to VILLAGE.
   (b)   Seed immediately after preparation of bed. Seed indicated areas within
contract limits and areas adjoining contract limits disturbed as a result of
construction operations.
   (c)   Perform seeding operations when the soil is dry and when winds do not
exceed 5 miles per hour velocity.
   (d)   Apply seed with a rotary or drop type distributor. Install seed evenly
by sowing equal quantities in 2 directions, at right angles to each other.
   (e)   Sow seed at a rate of 8 lbs/1000 sf. (350 lbs/acres).
   (f)   After seeding, rake or drag surface of soil lightly to incorporate
seed into top 1/8" of soil. Roll with light lawn roller.
Section 64-93. MULCHING OR HYDROSEEDING:
   (a)   Place straw mulch on seeded areas within 24 hours after seeding.
   (b)   Place straw mulch uniformly in a continuous blanket at a rate of 2-1/
2 tons per acre or (2) 50 lb. bales per 1,000 sq. ft. of area. A mechanical
blower may be used for straw mulch application when acceptable to the
Architect.
   (c)   Crimp straw into soil by use of a "crimper". Two passes in opposite
direction required.
   (d)   Use a hydromulcher (sprayer) and apply mixture(s) at the following
rate. Mix in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations.
   (e)   Apply hydroseed slurry to indicated areas. Use tackifier only on
erosion prone areas. Apply fertilizer with hydro mix.
 
Seed:                       350 pounds per acre
Fertilizer:                 400 pounds per acre
Tackifier:                  60 gallons per acre
Wood Cellulose Fiber Mulch: 2000 pounds per acre
 
   (f)   Care must be taken not to get hydroseed materials on buildings, walks,
roadways, plant beds etc.
Section 64-94. LAWN ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Establish dense lawn of permanent grasses, free from lumps and
depressions. Any area failing to show uniform germination to be reseeded;
continue until dense lawn established. Damage to seeded area resulting from
erosion to be repaired by Contractor. Scattered bare spots over 5 percent not
allowed.
   (b)   In event contractor does not establish dense lawn during germination
period, return to project to refertilize and reseed to establish dense lawn.
   (c)   Should the seeded lawn become largely weeds after germination,
Contractor responsible to kill the weeds and reseed the proposed lawn areas to
produce a dense turf, as specified.
Section 64-95. INSTALLATION.
   (a)   Excavate circular plant pits with vertical sides, except for plants
specifically indicated to be planted in beds. Provide plant pits per planting
details. Depth of pit shall accommodate the root system. Scarify the bottom of
the pit to a depth of 4".
   (b)   Provide pre-mixed planting mixture Type "A" for use around the balls
and roots of all deciduous and evergreen tree plantings.
   (c)   Beds for Ground Cover, Flowers, Ericaceous Plants and Ornamental
Grasses: Excavate existing soil to 12" depth over entire bed area and remove
soil from site. Set plants according to drawings and backfill entire bed with
pre-mixed planting mixture Type "B".
   (d)   Mass Shrub Beds/Hedge Beds: Excavate existing soil to 18" depth over
entire bed area and remove soil from site. Scarify bottom of the bed to a 4"
depth. Set plants according to drawings and specs. in addition, backfill entire
bed with (pre-mixed) specified planting mixture Type "A".
   (e)   Planting:
      (1)    Set plant material in the planting pit to proper grade and
alignment. Set plants upright, plumb and faced to give the best appearance or
relationship to each other or adjacent structure. Set plant material 2"-3"
above the finish grade. No filling will be permitted around trunks or stems.
Backfill the pit with planting mixture. Do not use frozen or muddy mixtures for
backfilling. Form a ring of soil around the edge of each planting pit to retain
water in non-irrigated areas.
      (2)   After balled and bur lapped plants are set, muddle planting soil
mixture around bases of balls and fill all voids. Sufficiently compact to
prevent settlement.
      (3)   Add "MyCor" Tree Saver to mix per manufacturer's directions.
      (4)   Remove all burlap, ropes and wires from the tops of balls.
      (5)   Space ground cover prants in accordance with indicated dimensions.
Adjust spacing as necessary to evenly fill planting bed with indicated quantity
of plants. Plant to within 12" of the trunks of trees and shrubs within
planting bed and to within 6" of edge of bed.
      (6)    Spread and arrange roots of bare-rooted plants in their natural
position. Work-in planting mixture. Do not mat roots together. Cut all broken
and frayed roots before installing planting mixture.
      (7)    Water immediately after planting.
   (f)    Mulching:
      (1)    Mulch tree and shrub planting pits and shrub beds with required
mulching material 3" deep immediately after planting. Thoroughly water mulched
areas. After watering, rake mulch to provide a uniform finished surface
   (g)    Wrapping, Guying, Staking:
      (1)   Inspect trees for injury to trunks, evidence of insect infestation
and improper pruning before wrapping.
      (2)   Wrap trunks of all trees spirally from bottom to top with specified
tree wrap and secure in place.
      (3)   Stake deciduous trees under 4" caliper. Stake evergreen trees under
12'-0" tall with 2 x 2 cedar stakes, 2 per tree.
      (4)   Guy deciduous trees 4" caliper and over. Guy evergreen trees 12'-0"
tall and over with metal fence post, 3 per tree.
   (h)    Pruning:
      (1)   Prune branches of deciduous stock, after planting, to balance the
loss of roots and preserve the natural character appropriate to the particular
plant requirements. Remove or cut back broken, damaged and unsymmetrical growth
of new wood.
      (2)    Multiple leader plants: Preserve the leader, which will best
promote the symmetry of the plant. Cut branches flush with the branch collar.
Make cut on an angle.
      (3)   Prune evergreen trees only to remove broken or damaged branches.
**** ARTICLE XIII. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES ****
Section 64-96. Violations and penalties.
Any person, persons, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
may be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred ($500.00) dollars or
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, or
both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
Chapter 66
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES*
Article I. In General
Sec.
66-1.    Placement of vehicles upon real property in residential district.
Sec.
66-2.    Placement of vehicles upon real property in business, commercial or
industrial zones.
Secs.
66-3-66-25.    Reserved.
Article II. Stopping/ Standing and Parking
Sec.
66-26. Parking fine schedule.
Sec.
66-27. Parking between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
*Cross reference-Streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62.
State law references-Michigan Vehicle Code, MCL 257.1 et seq., MSA 9.1801 et
seq.; authority for village to regulate streets and highways within its
jurisdiction, MCL 257.606, MSA 9.2306.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Sec. 66-1. Placement of vehicles upon real property in residential district.
It shall be unlawful for any premises to contain one or more unused
automobiles, trucks, snowmobiles or any other self-propelled vehicle as well as
any currently unregistered or uninspected vehicles upon any property in a
residential district. At no time shall there be, in any such district in the
village, any of the above vehicles in a major state of disassembly, disrepair
or with flat tires, or any vehicle in the process of being stripped or
dismantled. At no time shall any vehicle of any type undergo major overhaul,
including bodywork, in a residential district.
(Ord. No. 72, § A, 8-9-1982)
Sec. 66-2. Placement of vehicles upon real property in business, commercial or
industrial zones.
Not more than one currently unregistered and/or uninspected motor vehicle shall
be permitted on any property in any business, commercial or industrial zone;
and at no time shall such vehicle be in any state of major disassembly,
disrepair nor shall it be in the process of being stripped or dismantled. At no
time shall any vehicle of any type undergo major overhaul, including bodywork,
in a business, commercial or industrial zone except at an approved automobile
establishment.
(Ord. No. 72, § B, 8-9-1982)
*Cross reference-Businesses,
ch. 14.
Sees. 66-3-66-25. Reserved
**** ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING ****
Sec. 66-26. Parking fine schedule.
   (a)   All parking violations are subject to a fine as established by Village
Council from time to time. All fines not paid within 14 days are increased by
50%.
   (b)   Handicap parking violations are subject to a fine of $60.00.
   (c)   Parking violations in a posted no parking zones are subject to a fine
of $30.00.
   (d)   Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary), as set forth in this
subsection, is subject to a fine of $20.00.
      (1)   On a sidewalk.
      (2)   In front of driveway.
      (3)   Within a street intersection.
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
      (5)   On or within 20 feet of a crosswalk.
      (6)   Within 30 feet of a street traffic sign or signal.
      (7)   Within 50 feet, on both sides of the street, of fire station
entrance.
      (8)   Beside street excavation when traffic is obstructed.
      (9)   Double parking.
      (10)   Within 200 feet of an accident where police are in attendance.
      (11)   Blocking an emergency exit.
      (12)   Blocking fire escape.
      (13)   Within 30 feet of safety zone.
      (14)   Parking at the edge of a curb or street where marked with yellow.
      (15)   Parking within 500 feet of a fire apparatus when in duty unless
legally parked prior to the fire or emergency.
      (16)   Parking on Village streets between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
(Ord. No. 99.42, 5-1-1999)
Sec. 66-27. Parking between the hours of 3:00am and 6:00 am
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on paved streets or highways within
the village limits between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. The penalty for
violation of this section shall be as set forth in section 66-26, together with
the cost of towing said vehicle to such place as the police department shall
direct.
(Ord. No. 48, § 6A, 5-6-1969; Ord. Of 4-6-1970).
***** Chapters 67-69
RESERVED *****
Chapters 67-69 RESERVED
Chapter 70
UTILITIES*
Article I. In General
Sec.
70-1.    Connections to water and sewer systems required.
Sec.
70-2.    Water or sewer service outside city.
Sec.
70-3.    Private wells.
Sec.
70-4.    Tampering with water system.
Secs.
70-5-70-35.    Reserved.
Article II. Water and Sewer Rates and Charges
Division 1. Generally
Sec.
70-36.    Established by resolution.
Sec.
70-37.    Turn-on charges.
Secs.
70-38-70-70.    Reserved.
Division 2. Billing and Collection Procedures
Sec.
70-71.    Basis for charges; responsibility for payment.
Sec.
70-72.    Meter readings; collection of charges.
Sec.
70-73.    Bills.
Sec.
70-74.    Delinquent charges; shutting off water.
Sec.
70-75.    Collection of delinquent charges.
Sec.
70-76.    Lien.
Sec.
70-77   Surcharge rates
Sec.
70-78   Inspection fees
Sec.
70-79   Revision of rates and charges
Secs.
70-80-70-110.    Reserved.
Article III. Water System
Sec.
70-111.    Operation of system.
Sec.
70-112.    Rules and regulations; inspection.
Sec.
70-113.    Withholding water supply.
Sec.
70-114.    Connections; disconnections.
Sec.
70-115.    Repairs.
Sec.
70-116.    Corporation and key curb stops.
Sec.
70-.117.    Service pipes; taps; shutoff valves.
Sec.
70-118.    Meters; installation, access.
Sec.
70-119.    Meters; installation at property owner's expense.
Sec.
70-120.    Special water meters.
Sec.
70-121.    Temporary special water meters.
Sec.
70-122.    Reserved
Cross references-Administration,
ch. 2; buildings and building regulations,
ch. 10; businesses,
ch. 14; cable communications,
ch. 18; community development,
ch. 26; environment,
ch. 34; planning,
ch. 50; solid waste,
ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch.62.
Sec.
70-123.    Cross connection control.
Secs.
70-124-70-155.    Reserved.
Article IV. Sewage Disposal System
Division 1. Generally
Sec.
70-156.    Description of system.
Sec.
70-157.    Conformity to article; sewer inspector.
Sec.
70-158.    Laying drain or sewer with water pipes.
Sec.
70-159.    Where public sewers not yet laid.
Sec.
70-160.    Injury to public sewer.
Secs.
70-161-70-180.    Reserved.
Division 2. Connections
Sec.
70-181.    Connection permit required.
Sec.
70-182.    Connection permit application.
Sec.
70-183.    Record of work.
Sec.
70-184.    T-branches.
Sec.
70-185.    Laying pipe and making joints.
Sec.
70-186.   Passing over and under existing pipes.
Sec.
70-187.    Trenches.
Sec.
70-188.    Notice of street opening.
Sec.
70-189.    Guarding street openings and obstructions.
Sec.
70-190.    Old private or house drains.
Sec.
70-191.    Reserved
Sec.
70-192.    Connections.
Sec.
70-193.    Backfilling.
Sec.
70-194.    Penalty for violation of division.
Sec.
70-195.    Inspection.
Sec.
70-196   Cleanouts
Sec.
70-197   Individual pumps.
Sec.
70-198   Unlawful discharges.
Sec.
70-199   Private sewage systems use.
Sec.
70-200   Private sewage system abandonment.
Secs.
70-201-70-222.    Reserved.
Division 3. Operation and Maintenance Control
Sec. 70-195.   Operation and maintenance.
Secs. 70-195-70-229.   Reserved.
Division 3. Use of the Public Sewer
Sec.
70-230.    Storm, ground and unpolluted water.
Sec.
70-231.    Grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps).
Sec.
70-232.    Prohibited discharges - preliminary treatment.
Sec.
70-233.    Industrial wastes.
Sec.
70-234.    Accidental discharges.
Sec.
70-235.    Written notice.
Sec.
70-236.    Verbal notice.
Sec.
70-237.    Termination of service.
Sec.
70-238.    Notice to employees.
Sec.
70-239-70-245.    Reserved.
Division 4. Surcharge Rates
Sec.
70-246.    Surcharge rate payment.
Sec.
70-247.    Alternate surcharge rate establishment.
Sec.
70-248.    Sampling procedures.
Sec.
70-249.    Sampling frequency.
Sec.
70-250.    Notification of problems.
Sec.
70-251.    Record keeping.
Sec.
70-252.    Sample locations.
Sec.
70-253.    Testing.
Sec. 70-254-70-259.    Reserved.
Division 5. Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec.
70-260.    Protection from damage.
Sec.
70-261.    Connection of privately constructed sanitary sewer systems to the
wastewater system.
Sec.
70-262.    Maintenance of public sanitary sewers and building sewers.
Sec.
70-263.    Administration.
Sec.
70-264.    Power and authority of inspectors.
Sec.
70-265-70-270    Reserved.
Division 6. General Provisions
Sec.
70-271.    Penalties.
Sec.
70-272.    Repealer clause.
Sec.
70-273.    Savings clause.
Sec.
70-274   Validity and severability.
*Cross reference(s)--Administration,
ch. 2; buildings and building regulations,
ch. 10; businesses,
ch. 14; cable communications,
ch. 18; community development,
ch. 26; environment,
ch. 34; planning,
ch 50; solid waste,
ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places,
ch. 62.
**** ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL ****
Sec. 70-1. Connections to water and sewer systems required.
   (a)   Connection to the village water system. All property within the
village at the time of the adoption of this section or authorized pursuant to
the provisions of section
70-3( e) shall be immediately connected to and shall obtain water exclusively
from the village water system.
   (b)   Connection to village sewer system. All property within the village
requiring sanitary sewer service shall be immediately connected to the village
sewer system, shall discharge all wastewater into the system, and shall cease
and desist from the use of septic systems or alternate wastewater treatment
systems.
   (c)   Occupancy permit. No person shall receive an occupancy permit for any
structure within the water district until all requirements of this section are
fulfilled.
   (d)   Procedure. The owner of any property within the village requiring
water and/or sewer services shall file an application for such services with
the village on forms provided by the village. Application shall be accompanied
by all capital charges, tap-in fees or any other fees required by any village
ordinance or resolution. Capital and tap-in fees are service access fees. The
tap-in fee covers Village labor and material cost for connecting a residence to
the existing sewer or water infrastructure. The capital fee is used to offset
expenses within the utility fund, sewer or water, that include payment of
investment debt on existing infrastructure, accrual of funds to support system
capacity expansion as well as administrative expenses. These access fees do not
include the cost of installing the initial infrastructure.
(Ord. No. 118, §§ 1--4,1-31-1996; Ord. No. 99-01-E, §§ 1--3,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-2. Water or sewer service outside city.
   (a)   Wastewater treatment services. The village shall reserve the sole
right in determining whether or not to provide wastewater treatment services to
property located outside the village limits.
   (b)   Water services to property not contiguous to the village or otherwise
ineligible for annexation. The village shall reserve the sole right in
determining whether or not to provide municipal water services to property
located outside the village limits which are not contiguous to or is otherwise
ineligible for annexation to the village.
   (c)   Water services to property contiguous to but never connected to a
water main owned by the village. The owners of property located outside the
village limits but contiguous to a water main owned by the village may obtain
water services from the village by petitioning the village for such services,
paying all tap-in fees and capital services charges provided by the village
and, thereafter, using the village water system as the sole source of water to
the property, paying for such services the amount provided by the village.
   (d)   Water services to property contiguous to and previously connected to a
water main owned by the village. The owners of property located outside the
village limits contiguous to a water main owned by the village and which had
previously been connected to such water main may obtain water services from the
village by petitioning the village for such services, paying all applicable
fees except capital service charges and, thereafter, using the village water
system as the exclusive source of water for the property, paying for such
services the amount provided by the village.
   (e)   Water services to property not contiguous to a water main owned by the
village. Water services to property located outside the village limits and not
contiguous to a water main owned by the village shall not be provided unless
all the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The owner of property on which services are sought petitions the
village for such services.
      (2)   The petitioner deposits an amount with the village equal to the
costs and expenses reasonably anticipated to be incurred by the village through
the bid process in constructing a water main to the petitioner's premises.
These costs shall include but are not limited to engineering fees, legal fees,
publication costs and expenses incurred in obtaining necessary easements. If
the project is not completed, any balance of the deposit shall be refunded to
the petitioner. The village may require the deposit of additional funds if the
amount deposited is not sufficient to meet the expenses incurred.
      (3)   The petitioner deposits an amount with the village equal to the
cost of construction of a water main to the petitioner's premises based on the
bid awarded by the village, less any balance remaining from the amount
previously deposited with the village or plus any shortage in the amount
previously deposited with the village. This amount shall be deposited before a
construction contract is awarded by the village. The petitioner shall be
responsible for any costs and expenses incurred in the construction of the
water main in excess of the amount deposited and shall receive a refund of any
amount not expended in the construction of the water main. The amount deposited
shall be credited against capital service charges, which may be assessed
against the petitioner on the property in question pursuant to village water
rates. The difference between the total amount deposited and/or paid by the
petitioner and the capital service charges owed by the petitioner on the
property in question will be refunded by the village from 100 percent of any
capital charges received by the village from properties connected to the
section of the water main, the construction of which was paid for by the
petitioner and from no other source whatsoever. The village shall not promise
or guarantee that all or any part of the amount deposited shall be refunded to
the petitioner except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (4)   The petitioner must use the village water system as the exclusive
source of all water used on the premises in question and shall cap and/or
terminate all other sources of water.
      (5)   Within 30 days after the property in question becomes contiguous to
the village or otherwise satisfies the requirements for annexation, the
petitioner must initiate and pursue the annexation of the property to the
village with all possible diligence. If the petitioner fails or refuses to seek
and pursue annexation to the village with all due diligence, the village may,
at its option, terminate all further water services to the premises in question
without liability or penalty.
      (6)   All of the conditions set forth in this section shall be set forth
in a contract duly executed by all of the owners of record of the premises in
question. The contract shall attach to and run with the premises and shall be
in a form recordable at the office of the register of deeds. (Ord. No. 121, §§
1--5,2-12-1996)
Sec. 70-3. Private wells.
   (a)   . The village council determines that in order to provide a safe and
reliable supply of public water in the village, it is necessary to ban the
drilling of private wells in the village.
   (b)   No wells shall be drilled on any property in the village to which
water service is available from the water supply system of the village. All
properties located within the village shall be served water by the village.
   (c)   The village council may grant exceptions to the ban imposed by this
section but only if the applicant for an exception establishes that water
service from the water supply system of the village is not available to the
property to be served by the well and cannot be made available on a reasonable
basis, or the applicant demonstrates that the water supply system of the
village cannot meet the applicant's particular needs and cannot be made to do
so on a reasonable basis. Also industrial facilities with preexisting wells
shall be granted the ability to drill a new well for non-potable uses as long
as the water is metered for sewer use if applicable and there is no chance of
cross connection between the two sources.
   (d)   All applications for an exception to this section shall be filed with
the village business manager who shall investigate the application, prepare a
report thereon and make a recommendation to the village council whether to
grant or deny a permit to drill a well.
   (e)   The village council shall give the applicant and all other interested
persons an opportunity to be heard and may grant or deny the exception to this
section or require that further information be furnished. No permit to drill a
well shall be issued unless the council determines that one of the reasons for
an exception set forth in subsection (c) of this section has been demonstrated
and that the new well will not threaten the safe and reliable operation of the
water supply system of the village. The council may attach such conditions to a
well drilling permit as it deems reasonable to ensure compliance with the
purposes of this section.
   (f)   An application for a permit under this section shall be accompanied by
a nonrefundable fee in the amount established by resolution. The village
council may assess such additional fee upon issuance of a permit as it
determines reasonable based upon the facts of the particular application.
   (g)   Sprinkler meters are available upon request for the purpose of
metering water without a charge for sewer.
   (h)   Pool meters are available upon request for the filling of pools. A
deposit charge as established by resolution shall be refunded upon return of
the meter in good working condition.
(Ord. No. 30-01, §§ 1--5,2-24-1992; Ord. No. 99-01-C, § 5,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-4. Tampering with water system.
   (a)   No person shall damage, destroy, alter, bypass or in any manner tamper
with any portion of the water system, including water meters, storm drain
system or sanitary sewer system of the village.
(Ord. No. 113, 1-10-1994; Ord. No. 99-01-D, 2-8-1999)
Sees. 70-5--70-35. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE II.   WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES* ****
*Cross reference(s)--Finance, § 2-116 et seq.
State law reference(s)--Rates, MCL 141.121, MSA 5.2751 .
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 70-36. Established by resolution.
The charges for services rendered by the village's water supply and sewage
collection and disposal systems shall be as established by resolution.
Sec. 70-37. Turn-on charges.
There will be imposed a charge in the amount established by resolution whenever
the village is requested to turn on or.off water services; however, whenever
the village is requested to provide turn-on or turn-off service at times other
than the regular business hours of the village, there will be imposed an
additional charge of time and material plus ten percent.
(Ord. No. 30-01, § 2,2-24-1992; Ord. No. 99-01-C, § 2,2-8-1999)
Secs. 70-38-70-70. Reserved
DIVISION 2. BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES
Sec. 70-71. Basis for charges; responsibility for payment
   (a)   The charge for water and sewer service furnished shall be according to
the amount actually used as registered by the meter, and at such rates as the
council may establish. No free service shall be furnished to any person. (b)
All charges for water and sewer service furnished shall be the responsibility
of the owner of record of the real property to which the water and sewer
service is furnished. All statements for charges shall be forwarded to the
owner of record of the real property as shown on the latest assessment roll and
at the address as shown on the latest assessment roll regardless of who the
occupant is of the premises.
(Ord. No. 30, § 7,4-11-1938; Ord. of 5-16-1940; Ord. of 12-7-1970; Ord. of 8-
13-1990, §§ A, B; Ord. No. 99-01-C, § 9,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-72. Meter readings; collection of charges.
The village water department shall have charge of the reading of all meters and
shall keep a record of all meter readings. The village utilities billing clerk
shall keep accounts of the charges for water and sewer service furnished to all
premises, as metered and shall render bills for the charges. All charges shall
be collected by the village utilities billing clerk. All payments made to the
village for utilities shall be credited to the proper account.
(Ord. No. 30, § 13,4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 15,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-73. Bills.
All meters shall be read monthly by the tenth day of the month. Charges for
water consumed as shown by such readings shall be due and payable on or before
fifteen days after the fifteenth day of the month. If for any reason a meter is
not read until after the time specified, the due date for the payment of the
charge may be extended so as to give reasonable time for payment, not to exceed
30 days from the date of billing.
(Ord. No. 30, § 8,4-11-1938; Ord. of 8-2-1971; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 10,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-74. Delinquent charges; shutting off water.
All water and sewer service charges shall be deemed delinquent if not paid
prior to the last day provided for payment, and a penalty of (1.67) percent
shall be charged for each bill or fraction thereof, that the charges remain
delinquent. A five (5) day grace period after the due date is granted without
penalty. The water supply to any premises where the charges have been
delinquent for a period of one month or more may be shut off and withheld until
payment of such delinquent charges is made to the village clerk.
(Ord. No. 30, § 9,4-11-1938; Ord. of 8-2-1971; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 11,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-75. Collection of delinquent charges,
All water and sewer charges shall be a lien upon the premises from and after
their due date, and shall be assessed against the premises. All unpaid charges
which, from June 1 of each year have remained delinquent for a period of one
month, shall be reported by the village clerk to the village council, and the
village council may require such charges to be transferred and reassessed upon
the village tax rolls in the same manner that unpaid special assessments are
transferred and reassessed upon the tax roll. Delinquent taxes may also be
collected by suit brought in the name of the village against the owner of the
premises.
(Ord. No. 30, § 10,4-11-1938; Ord. of 8-2-1971; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 12,2-8-
1999)
Sec. 70-76. Lien.
   (a)   The charges for water and sewer service which are under the provisions
of section 21 of the Revenue Bond Act of 1933 (MCI 141.121, MSA 5.2751), that
are a lien on all premises served, unless notice is given that a tenant is
responsible, are recognized to constitute such lien; and whenever such charge
against any piece of property shall be delinquent for six months, the village
official in charge of the collection of such charges shall certify annually, to
the tax assessing officer of the village, the fact of such delinquency,
whereupon such charge shall be entered by him upon the next tax roll as a
charge against such premises and shall be collected and the lien enforced in
the same manner as general village taxes against such premises are collected,
and the lien enforced; however, where notice is given that a tenant is
responsible for such charges and service as provided by section 21 of the
Revenue Bond Act of 1933 (MCI 141.121, MSA 5.2751), no further service shall be
rendered to such premises until a cash deposit in the amount established by
resolution shall have been made as security for payment of such charges and
service.
   (b)   In addition to other remedies provided, the village shall have the
right to shut off and discontinue the supply of water to any premises for the
nonpayment of water and sewer rates when due. If such charges are not paid
within 30 days after their due date, water services to such premises shall be
discontinued. Water services so discontinued shall not be restored until all
sums then due and owing shall be paid plus a turn-on charge in the amount
established by resolution.
(Ord. No. 82, § 1,8-13-1984; Ord. No. 30-01, § 2,2-24-1992; Ord. No. 99-01-C, §
2,281999)
State law reference(s)--Lien for water service, MCL 141.121, MSA 5.2751.
Sec. 70-77. Surcharge Rates.
The rates and charges set forth in this Ordinance notwithstanding, if the
character of the sewage of any user imposes an unreasonable or additional
burden upon the sanitary sewer system of the Village, an additional charge
shall be made over and above the rates otherwise. Wastewater in excess of the
maximum limitations imposed by this Ordinance shall be deemed prima facie
subject to surcharge. If necessary to protect the system or any part thereof,
the Village shall deny the right of any user to discharge such sewage into the
sewer system. Initially, the surcharge applicable to industrial users shall be
set forth in DIVISION 4.
Sec. 70-78. Inspection Fees.
The cost of connecting private premises to the Village Sanitary Sewer System
shall not be paid from the proceeds of any bond issue or from the revenues of
the System, but shall be paid by the property owners receiving the service. In
addition, each premises connecting to the facilities of the System shall pay a
charge for the inspection of such connection, as may be established from time
to time by the Village of Lexington.
Sec. 70-79. Revision of Rates and Charges.
The rates, charges and fees established by this Ordinance shall be reviewed at
least annually and are estimated to be sufficient to provide revenue for the
payment of the operation and maintenance, costs, and such other charges and
expenditures of the System. Such rates, charges and fees shall be reviewed from
time to time as required to maintain the fiscal integrity of the System and the
same may be revised and fixed by resolution of the Village Council as may be
necessary to produce the amounts required to pay such charges and expenditures
and provide the funds necessary for the maintenance of the financial integrity
of the System.
Secs. 70-80-70-110. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE III. WATER SYSTEM ****
Sec. 70-111. Operation of system.
The water supply system of the village shall be operated pursuant to the
provisions of the Revenue Bond Act of 1933 (MCI 141.101 et seq., MSA 5.2731 et
seq.).
(Ord. No. 30-01, § 1,2-24-1992; Ord. No. 99-01-C, § 1,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-112. Rules and regulations; inspection.
The village council shall establish from time to time all necessary rules and
regulations in respect to the use and operation of the water system of the
village in accordance with the provisions of this article. All materials and
workmanship in connection with water service shall be subject to inspection by
the water department of the village.
(Ord. No. 30, § 14,4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 16,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-113. Withholding water supply.
The supply of water may be withheld from the premises if the ordinances, rules
and regulations of the village in any way may have been violated. If any person
shall, after the water has been shut off from any premises, cause or suffer
such premises to be supplied with water, without the water departmentts
permission, from other premises, such other premises shall be disconnected from
the distribution pipes of the village. (Ord, No. 30, § 11,4-11-1938; Ord. No.
99-01-A, § 13,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-114. Connections; disconnections.
Whenever it shall be necessary to make connections or disconnections from water
mains to lot lines in the village, they shall be made only by the water
department; and the cost shall be charged against the property to which the
service connection runs. Applications to tap water mains and for service shall
be filed with the village clerk, and accompanied with a deposit sufficient to
defray the cost of installing such service shall be paid at the rate and on the
terms to be established from time to time by the village council.
(Ord. No. 30, § 1,4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 1,2-8-1999)
Sec.70-115. Repairs.
Whenever repairs are necessary to any service connection between the lot line
and the main, the water department shall cause the connection to be repaired
without cost to the property owner.
(Ord. No. 30, § 2,4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 3,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-116. Corporation and key curb stops.
All connections made with water mains in the village shall be provided with a
corporation stop at the water main, and a key curb stop protected by an iron
service box leading from the stop to the surface of the earth, and covered with
an iron cover, exposed so as to be easily found, and placed on the outside of
the lot line. The corporation stops and key curb stops are to be opened and
closed only by representatives of the water department.
(Ord. No. 30, § 3,4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 2,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-117. Service pipes; taps; shutoff valves.
All service lines from the lot line to the water meter, from which point
connecting and distributing pipes may be used, shall be at least one inch, type
K copper pipe or one inch 160 psi plastic pipe, provided that all service be
installed at a minimum depth of 41/2 feet. No taps smaller than one inch will
be permitted. A ball valve for shutting off water will be required to be placed
on the line immediately before and after the meter connection, which valve and
meter must at all times be accessible and in no case covered.
(Ord. No. 30, §4,4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, §4,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-118. Meters; installation, access.
   (a)   Meters. Every connection to the water system shall require a meter
which shall be in an accessible position, and free from danger of frost and
protected by proper check and relief valves. The cost of the meter and radio
reader (MXU) shall be paid by the applicant at the time of applying for water
service. The water department shall have access at all times to meters for the
purpose of repairing or checking them for accuracy, and the cost of any repair,
necessitated by the negligence of anyone other than the village shall be
charged to the owner. If the meter should be installed outside the building, it
shall be installed in a metering pit, free from damage of the elements. Meters
will be installed on the first floor or basement, crawl space is subject to
approval upon inspection.
   (b)   Installation. Installation of all service lines to and including the
meter will be installed by a licensed plumber. Homeowner installation will be
subject to an open trench inspection by the village water department and a fee
in an amount established by resolution is due and payable at the time of
inspection.
(Ord. No. 30, § 5, 4-11-1938; Ord. of 5-16-1940; Ord. No. 99-01-A, §§ 5,6,2-8-
1999)
Sec. 70-119. Meters; installation at property owner's expense.
All meters shall be installed at the property owner's expense. All water meters
shall be under the control of the village.
(Ord. No. 30, §6, 4-11-1938; Ord. No. 99-01-A, § 7,2-8-1999)
Sec. 70-120. Special water meters.
A special water meter may be installed on any premises entitled to service by
the village water supply system. Water supplied through a special water meter
may be used only for the purpose of filling swimming pools and watering lawns
and other vegetation within the village limits, and under no circumstances may
such water be used for any purpose requiring treatment by the village
wastewater treatment system. All plumbing connected to special water meters
shall not be connected to or readily capable of connection to plumbing serviced
by a regular water meter. The owner or occupant of premises serviced by a
special water meter shall allow access, by village personnel to the premises on
demand for purposes of inspection for compliance with this section. The village
may deny special water meter services to any premises found to be in violation
of this section.
(Ord. of 9-14-1992, § 6)
Sec. 70-121. Temporary special water meters.
Any premises receiving metered water service from the village water supply
system may obtain from the village, subject to availability, a temporary
special water meter to be used for purposes of filling swimming pools and
watering lawns and other vegetation within the village; and under no
circumstances may such water be used for any purpose requiring treatment by the
village wastewater treatment system. The user of a temporary special water
meter shall pay in advance a rental rate to be set by the village council in
addition to any charges for water use. The user of any temporary special water
meter shall allow access by village personnel on demand for purposes of
inspection for compliance with this section. The village may deny use of a
temporary special water meter to any person or on any premises found to be in
violation of this section.
(Ord. of 9-14-1992, § 7)
Sec. 70-122. Reserved.
Sec. 70-123. Cross connection control.
   (a)   The village adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection
Rules of the state department of environmental quality being R 325.11401
through R 325.11407 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the village water department to make
inspections of all properties served by the public water supply where cross
connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the village water department and as approved by the state
department of environmental quality.
   (c)   The representative of the village water department shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply system of the village, for the purpose of inspecting
the piping systems for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping systems on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross connection.
   (d)   The village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this section exists and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   (e)   All testable backflow prevention devices shall be tested initially
upon installation to be sure that the device is working properly. Subsequent
testing of devices shall be conducted at a time interval specified by the
village and in accordance with the state department of environmental quality
requirements. Only individuals approved by the village shall be qualified to
perform such testing. The individual shall certify the results of his testing.
   (f)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this section and by the state and county plumbing code. Any water
outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not
supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as
follows: WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
   (g)   Minimum separation between municipal water service and an existing
well will be a minimum of ten feet.
(Ord. No. 30, § 17,4-11-1938; Ord. of 9-11-1978; Ord. No. 99-01-8, §§ 1--7,2-8-
1999)
Secs. 70-124--70-155. Reserved.
**** ARTICLE IV. SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM ****
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 70-156. Description of system.
The system of sanitary sewers of the village consists of main and lateral
conduits built of glazed vitrified pipe, concrete pipe, asbestos cement pipe
schedule 40 pvc, SDR 35 and ductile iron pipe with the necessary appurtenances.
It is designed to carry off all liquid house and trade wastes and is known as
the sanitary sewerage system. The sewers in the streets and alleys adjacent to
the various lots are called main or lateral sewers. The sewers leading from the
main or lateral sewers to the property on either side of the street or alley
are called house connections.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 1,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-157. Conformity to article; sewer inspector.
All connections of sewers, drains or plumbing work from houses, stores, plants
or other structures on private property with the sanitary sewerage system of
the village shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this article.
The village council shall designate some full-time employee of the village as
village sewer inspector, who shall, under the direction of the village council,
administer the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 2,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-158. Laying drain or sewer with water pipes.
No house drain, surface drain or sewer main shall be laid in the same trench
with water pipes and in no case closer together than ten feet without special
permission from the village sewer inspector. There should be 18" vertical
separation between a water main and a sanitary sewer service or main.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 22,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-159. Where public sewers not yet laid.
House drains and sewers laid within the village limits in and for houses on
streets where no public sewers are yet laid shall be done according to the
regulations of this article in every particular, and the owner or agent of the
property must secure a permit to connect the property with any public sewer as
soon as built past the property upon which the drain is laid.
(Ord. No, S-2, § 27,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-160. Injury to public sewer.
Any person making any kind of improvement in the public streets and alleys upon
which sewers and house connections have been laid shall so plan and execute
their work that no injury will occur to any public sewer or house connection.
In case a water, gas or other conduit or obstruction shall come in the way of a
drain or sewer, the question of passing over or under the obstruction shall be
determined by the village sewer inspector.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 18,6-15-1964)
Secs. 70-161--70-180. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. CONNECTIONS
Sec. 70-181. Connection permit required.
No connection with any sanitary sewer within the village and no extension of
any house connection from a connection previously made shall be made by any
person until a written permit for doing so shall have been obtained from the
village clerk, and every connection with any such sewer made without permission
or in any manner not prescribed for such connections shall subject the person
making the connection and the owner of the premises for which such connection
is made to a penalty as prescribed in this division. Before any sewer builder
shall do any sewer work in a street or public thoroughfare in the village under
the control of the state highway department, he shall obtain all necessary
permits from the department.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 5,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-182. Connection permit application.
Application for permit to connect to the sewerage system must be made in
writing by the owner of the property to be sewered or drained, or his
authorized agent. Such application shall give the exact location of the
property, number of lot, number of feet of frontage, number of buildings to be
connected, the name of the owner, and the name of the licensed sewer builder
employed to do the work, and shall be made on blanks furnished for this purpose
by the village clerk; however, the permit shall be granted with the express
condition that the owner for whose benefit the connection is made shall, on
behalf of himself, his heirs or assigns, hold the village harmless from any
loss or damage that may in any way result or be caused by the making of any
such connection. Such permit shall not be granted until the applicant shall
have paid a permit fee in the amount established by resolution.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 6,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-183. Record of work.
Within five days after the completion of the work of connection to the sewerage
system, the sewer builder shall file with the village clerk a record showing
the number of feet of pipe laid and its location with respect to the property
and buildings connected, together with such information as may be required by
the village to make a complete record of the work.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 7,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-184. T-branches.
   (a)   T-branches have been placed at frequent intervals along the main or
lateral sewer. A record of such Ts or stubs is kept in the office of the
village sewer inspector and will be furnished to the sewer builder for his
information. The village does not guarantee the accuracy of the Y location. All
connections with the sewers of the sanitary sewerage system must be made at
such V-branches or stubs wherever possible. The breaking of any pipe of any
main or lateral sewer to connect a house connection shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and, in addition thereto, the builder shall pay all expenses of
taking up such sewer and rebuilding it to the satisfaction of the village
council.
   (b)   If the Y or stub cannot be found with a reasonable effort, the
connection may be made by tapping the main or lateral sewer with a sewer saddle
of sufficient size to receive the pipe used in the house connection. Such
connections shall be made in the upper half of the sewer only.
(Ord. No. 8-2, § 8,6-15-1964)
Sec, 70-185. Laying pipe and making joints.
The cover of the T-branch or stub on the sewer shall be carefully removed so as
not to injure the socket or bell. The first length of pipe attached to the T-
branch or stub shall be laid so as to give a good fall into the sewer. The
entire length of pipe on any house connection shall be laid as nearly as
possible in a straight line and on a uniform grade from a point three feet
outside the wall of the building to be served, to the T -branch or stub. Such
grade shall be a fall of not less than one foot in 50 feet from the house to
the sewer unless by special permission of the sewer inspector, in which case
provision must be made for regular and efficient flushing. Curved pipe shall be
used for every deflection from a straight line of more than three inches in two
feet. Unless otherwise specified in writing by the village sewer inspector, the
manner of laying the pipe and making the joints shall be as follows:
   (1)   Sewers and drains shall be subject to the official tests prescribed by
the village sewer inspector. (Ord. No. S-2, § 25,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-186. Passing over and under existing pipes.
If a house connection shall come in the way of an existing water main, gas main
or other obstruction, the question of passing over or under the obstruction
shall be determined by the sewer inspector. In no case shall a sewer builder be
allowed to decide the question. All expenses connected with passing both over
and under such pipes, conduits or obstruction shall be borne by the owner of
the property for whose benefit the connection is being made. There should be a
minimum of 18" vertical separation from a water main to a sewer service or
main.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 19,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-187. Trenches.
In opening any street or alley, all material for paving and ballasting shall be
removed with the least possible injury or loss and, together with the excavated
material from the trench, must be placed where it will cause the least
inconvenience to the public. As little as possible of the trench shall be dug
until the V-branch or stub in the sewer is found. Whenever the sides of the
trench will not stand, perpendicular sheeting and bracing must be used to
prevent caving in of banks in accordance with OSHA regulations.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 20,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-188. Notice of street opening.
At least 24 hours' notice must be given at the office of the village clerk
before any street, alley or public way shall be opened for the purpose of
laying a house connection.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 9,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-189. Guarding street openings and obstructions.
All openings and obstructions in any street, lane or alley must be guarded at
all times with sufficient barriers, and during the night shall be indicated by
red lights or flares and such other precautions as shall be necessary to guard
the public against accident; and at all times the work shall be so done as to
cause the least inconvenience to property owners and the general public.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 21,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-190. Old private or house drains.
Before any old private drain or any house drain built before July 5, 1964,
shall be connected with the sewer system, the owner of the private drain or
house drain shall prove to the full satisfaction of the village sewer inspector
that it is entirely clean and that it conforms, in every respect, with the
rules and regulations prescribed by this article. All roof, foundation and sump
pump drains shall. be disconnected from the sanitary sewer service so as not to
contribute to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 23,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-191. Reserved.
Sec. 70-192. Connections.
The house connection from a point three feet outside of the house to the curb
line shall be at least four inches in diameter and constructed of S.D.R. 35 PVC
PIPE. From the main sewer to the curb line, the internal diameter shall be at
least six inches. The connection between four and six-inch pipe shall be made
with an increaser.
(Ord. No. 8-2, § 24,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-193. Backfilling.
All backfilling over that part of any house drain within the boundaries of any
street, alley or public grounds shall be clean sand or inspector approved
material and must be either thoroughly puddled or tamped in layers not
exceeding six inches in thickness, and the question as to which shall be done
shall be determined by the village sewer inspector. The replacing of any gravel
or paving shall be done within 48 hours after the laying of the house drain or
sewer and must be done so as to make the surface at least as good as it was
before it was disturbed and to the full satisfaction of the village sewer
inspector, and the sewer builder will be held responsible for any subsequent
settling in the ground and/or pavement. All water pipes must be protected to
the satisfaction of the superintendent of waterworks, and all gas pipes must be
protected to the satisfaction of the company owning the pipes; and any
subsequent damage to either water or gas pipes, by reason of the construction
of the house drain, or subsequent settling of the earth, shall be paid for by
the sewer builder.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 26,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-194. Penalty for violation of division.
No person shall fail to remove any private drain connected with the sanitary
sewers of the village constructed contrary to the provisions of this division.
Within ten days after being notified by the village sewer inspector that the
connection was unlawfully made, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 28,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-195. Inspection.
The village clerk must be given notice when any work is ready for inspection,
and all work must be left uncovered and convenient for examination until
inspected and approved. Such inspection shall be made within 24 hours after
such notification. If the village sewer inspector determines that any work
constructed does not conform with this division, the sewer builder shall remove
and replace any such rejec.ted work and shall make all work meet the
requirements of this division to the full satisfaction of the village sewer
inspector.
(Ord. No. S-2, § 10,6-15-1964)
Sec. 70-196. Cleanouts.
Cleanouts shall be installed every ninety (90') feet of straight run and at
each 90degree direction change, (two forty-five-degree connections). All
cleanouts shall be capped, and shall be accessible at any time.
Sec. 70-197. Individual Pumps.
In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by a
pumping system and discharged to the building sewer.
Sec. 70-198. Unlawful Discharges.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted water except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 70-199. Private Sewage Systems Use.
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage or industrial waste. Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of this Ordinance, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sanitary sewer disposal system which shall be approved
by the Sanilac County Health Department, or such other Health Department having
jurisdiction.
Sec. 70-200. Private Sewage System Abandonment
At such time as the public sanitary sewer system becomes available to premises
served by a private sewage disposal system, connection to the public system
shall be made in compliance with this Ordinance, and any septic tank, cesspools
and similar private disposal facilities located thereon shall be abandoned and
discontinued for sanitary sewage disposal use. All private sewage disposal
systems maintained in compliance with this Ordinance shall be maintained in a
sanitary manner at all times at the sole expense of the owner thereof. All
abandoned private sewage disposal systems shall be completely filled with
earth, sand, gravel, concrete or other approved material. Upon the abandonment
or discontinuation of use of a septic tank or privy, the sewage and sludge
contents thereof shall be completely removed and disposed of by a septic tank
cleaner who is duly licensed under provisions of Act No. 181 of the Public Acts
of 1986. The tank, or the pit in the instance of a privy, shall be treated with
at least 10 pounds of chlorinated lime or other chemical disinfectant
acceptable to the Sanilac County Health Department. Then the tank or pit shall
be completely backfilled with approved material and made safe from the hazard
of collapse or entrapment.
Secs. 70-201--70-222. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CONTROL
Sec. 70-223. Operation and Maintenance.
The operation and maintenance of the system shall be under the supervision and
control of the Village and/or any County contract which shall be agreed upon
between the Village and the County. Pursuant to the terms of this Ordinance and
such contracts the Village has retained the exclusive right to establish,
maintain, and collect rates and charges for sewage collection, treatment,
transmission and debt service, and in such capacity the Village may employ such
person or persons in such capacity or capacities as it deems advisable, and may
make such rules or regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to assure
the efficient establishment, operation and maintenance of the system, to
discharge its financial obligations, and collection of rates and charges as
herein provided.
Secs. 70-224-70-229. Reserved
DIVISION 4. USE OF THE PUBLICSEWER.
Sec. 70-230. Storm, Ground and Unpolluted Water.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, or roof water to any sanitary sewer. Storm water,
groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage (including non contact industrial
cooling water) shall be discharged into storm drains or into a natural outlet
suitable for said purpose.
Sec. 70-231. Grease, Oil and Sand Interceptors (Traps).
Grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps) shall be provided at the expense of
the property owner when liquid wastes may contain grease, oil, and sand in
excessive amounts. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Village and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be constructed
of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which when bolted into place shall be gas tight
and watertight. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps)
shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
Sec. 70-232. Prohibited Discharges -Preliminary Treatment
No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the municipal sewer
system any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference.
These general prohibitions apply to all users of the Village Sewer system,
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other National, State, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
Specific Prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into
the municipal sewer system the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
   (a)   Containing a five (5) day BOD greater than three hundred fifty (350)
MG/Lor containing more than three hundred (300) MG/L of suspended solids; or
   (b)   Having a temperature greater than 1500F (65.50C) or which will inhibit
biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no
case wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the
treatment facility to exceed 1040F (400C); or
   (c)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in paragraph B hereof; or
   (d)   Having a chlorine demand of more than fifteen (15) milligrams per
liter; or
   (e)   That contributes a process waste stream which makes up five (5)
percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
municipal system receiving the waste; or
   (f)   With total phosphorous concentrations greater than twelve (12)
milligrams per liter as phosphorous, and total ammonia concentrations greater
than 35 mg/L; or
   (g)   Containing more than 100 milligrams per liter, by weight, of fat, oil
or grease; or
   (h)   Containing pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the
municipal sewer, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup
flashpoint of less than 1400F (600C). Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil
or other flammable or explosive, liquid, solid, or using the test methods
specified in 40 CFR 261.21,or
   (i)   Containing any garbage that has not been properly shredded; or U)
Containing any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving metal, glass, rags,
feather, tar, plastics, woods, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substances capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the treatment facility; or
   (k)   Containing any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous
substance in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the treatment facility; or (I) With any
noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance or repair; or
   (m)   With any industrial waste that may cause a deviation from the NPDES
permit requirements, prohibit the land application of sludge, pretreatment
standard, and all other State and Federal regulations; or
   (n)   Containing any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.50 or higher
than 9.0 or having any other corrosive properties capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the treatment facility; or
   (o)   Containing a Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) greater than 550 mg/Lor
containing more than 500 mg/L of Total Dissolved Solids (TDS).
   (p)   Preliminary treatment shall be provided, at no expense to the Village,
as may be necessary to reduce any item listed in Section 6 C 1 through C 15 or
to reduce objectionable characteristics of said effluent to within the maximum
limits, or to control the quantity and rates of discharges of such waters or
wastes. On direction of the Village, a person may be required to remove,
exclude, or require pretreatment of any industrial waste in whole or in part
for any reasons deemed to be in the Village's interest.
   (q)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any water or
wastes, they shall be maintained in satisfactory and effective operation at no
expense to the Village. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for approval to the Village and no construction of such facility
shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing. The Village
may elect to treat industrial wastes, discharged in excess of normal domestic
concentrations on a basis prescribed by written agreement and for an
established charge to cover the added cost. All such preliminary treatment or
pretreatment shall be in accordance with Federal and State laws and
regulations.
Sec. 70-233. Industrial Wastes.
Any industry or structure discharging or desiring to discharge industrial waste
to the system shall provide the Village with the following information or
material:
   (a)   A written statement setting forth the nature of the enterprise, the
source and amount of water used, the amount of water to be discharged, with its
present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical, radioactive, or to the
pertinent characteristics of the wastes.
   (b)   A plan map of the building, works, or complex with each outfall to the
surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural watercourse, or ground
waters noted, described, and the waste stream identified.
   (c)   Place waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste streams,
or other potential waste problems under the specified supervision and control
of persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency as properly
qualified to supervise such facilities.
   (d)   Report on raw materials entering the process or support systems,
intermediate materials, final products and waste by-products as these factors
may pertain to waste control.
   (e)   Maintain records and file reports on the final disposal of specified
liquid, solid, sludges, oils, radioactive materials, solvents, or other waste.
   (f)   If any industrial process is to be altered as to include or negate a
process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be given to the
Village, subject to approval by the Village and by appropriate State of
Michigan agencies.
   (g)   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall be required by the Village to install a suitable
control manhole or other structure in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, or
structure, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Village. The manhole or
structure shall be maintained by the industrial user so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (h)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which references are made in paragraph C hereof shall be
determined in accordance with the most recent edition of Standard Methods for
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
Sec. 70-234. Accidental Discharges.
Where required, a user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this Ordinance.
Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's or user's cost. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Village for review and shall be approved by the Village before
construction of the facility. All required users shall complete such a plan
within ninety (90) days after the effective date of this Ordinance. In the
alternative, non-domestic users that currently have state required Pollution
Incident Prevent Plans (PIPP) may submit the PIPP plan in satisfaction of this
requirement. If required by the Village, a user who commences contributions to
the system after the effective date of this Ordinance shall not be permitted to
introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have
been approved by the Village. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
Ordinance. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of
the user to immediately telephone and notify the Village of the incident. The
notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration
and volume, and corrective action.
Sec. 70-235. Written Notice.
Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge, the user shall submit
to the Village a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge
and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences,
Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the sewer
system, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; of any fines,
civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this article or
other applicable law.
Sec. 70-236. Verbal Notice.
That any industrial user hereunder in the event of an accidental or other
unauthorized discharge of prohibited materials to the system, shall immediately
notify the Village of the fact of such discharge and shall:
   (a)   Describe with particularity the approximate time of the discharge.
   (b)   Describe the nature, chemical and biological make-up and
characteristics of the discharge, if known; and,
   (c)   Indicate the approximate quantity of the discharge.
Sec. 70-237. Termination of Service.
In addition, said industrial user shall, at its own expense, take all steps
directed by the Village to terminate such discharge and prevent its recurrence.
Failure to cooperate fully with the Village in the prevention of additional
prohibited discharge, including such treatment as required, may result in
termination of service.
Sec. 70-238. Notice to Employees.
A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other
prominent place advising employees of whom to call in the event of a dangerous
discharge. Employers shall insure that all employees who could cause or suffer
from such a dangerous discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
Sec. 70-239-70-245. Reserved
DIVISION 4, SURCHARGE RATES
Surcharge Rates for B.O.D., Total Suspended Solids, Total Phosphorous as P,
Ammonia Nitrogen, COD and Total Dissolved Solids are hereby established as
follows:
 
Pollutant              Threshold Limit without Surcharge per pound of pollutant
                       surcharge               in excess of threshold limit
BOD                    350 mg/L                $0.071
Total Suspended Solids 300 mg/L                $0.0565
Total phosphorous as P 12 mg/l                 $0.177
Ammonia Nitrogen       35 mg/L                 $0.04
COD                    550 mg/L                $0.071
Total Dissolved Solids 500 mg/L                $0.0565
 
Sec. 70-246. Surcharge Rate Payment.
The rates stated herein shall be effective on the first day of January 2009,
except as otherwise provided. A billing covering the use of the system before
and after the effective date of a rate change shall require the proration of
the bill based on the average use per day and the number of days within such
billing period at the rate then in effect. Surcharges shall be collected with
the sewer service billings. The rates established herein for Surcharge Rates
may be revised by Resolution of the VIiiage of Lexington Council by Resolution
shall establish when such rates shall be billed and paid.
Sec. 70-247. Alternative Surcharge Rate Establishment.
In the event of a slug or accidental discharge to the system, the Village may
elect to have the violator pay the overage in the electric bill for the month
for the wastewater treatment facility. This option will be evaluated on a case
by case basis and will only apply when agreeable to both parties. The base
electric bill will be established as the average of the previous three months
bills in which no slug/accidental discharge occurred.
Sec. 70-248. Sampling Procedures.
In addition to requiring the industrial user to install a manhole to monitor
the strength of its industrial waste pursuant to the terms of this Ordinance,
the industrial user may be required by the Village at its sole discretion, to
install at the users expense, an approved meter to register accurately all
water flowing to the system for purposes of implementing the foregoing rates
and the service charges established under the terms of this Ordinance. The
sampling for all parameters in the above table shall be on a 24 hour flow
proportional, composite basis, except fats, oils and greases (F.O.G.), ph, and
temperature which shall be grab samples. All sampling and testing must be based
on the requirements of this ordinance in accordance with 40 CFR Part 136,
applicable general pretreatment standards in 40 CFR Part 403, categorical
pretreatment standards, state regulations, and applicable Village of Lexington
ordinances.
Sec. 70-249. Sampling Frequency.
Sampling frequency shall be determined by the Village on a case by case basis,
but not less than quarterly. For each quarterly period, 3 samples shall be
collected in a 2 week period for flows less than 25,000 gallons per day and
monthly samples shall be collected for facilities generating 25,000 gallons per
day or greater. Additional sampling frequencies shall be determined by the
sewer user to assure continual compliance with this ordinance and all rules and
regulations. Additional monitoring or change in frequency may be required by
the Village with reasonable notification in writing. All sampling and
analytical costs are the responsibility of the sewer user. Samples shall be
collected by the Village or by the sewer user with the Village's permission.
The sewer Analytical testing shall be performed at a State- certified lab with
all test results sent to the Village and to the sewer user. Sampling shall be
done in a timely manner so that analytical results are available at the time
the monthly billing is performed.
Sec. 70-250. Notification of Problems.
The sewer user must notify the Department of Public Works (810-359-5901)
immediately upon becoming aware of any problems, through sampling or by other
means, that violate Village of Lexington ordinances and regulations, or of any
slugs, up-sets, by passes, spills, noncompliance or any other situation that
could cause problems in the sewer system. The notification must be followed
within 5 days, with submission of a detailed written report describing the
cause of the accident or bypass, its duration, the discharge limit violations,
measures being taken to prevent future occurrences and dates for completion of
such measures. Discharge limit violations noted through sampling and testing
must be retested and results submitted within 30 days. Following any corrective
action taken as result of discharge limit violations, sampling and testing will
be done and results submitted to demonstrate compliance within 30 days
ofcompletion of the corrective action.
Sec. 70-251. Record Keeping.
All records and reports pertaining to any activities or discharges related to
this ordinance and general pretreatment requirements, including reports and
records of problems, shall be maintained a minimum of three (3) years by the
sewer user or through any litigation periods related to the reports and
records.
Sec. 70-252. Sample Locations.
All non-domestic sewage discharge connections to the Village's sewer system
shall be a separate and distinct discharge location and numbered or otherwise
identified by the sewer user. Each discharge point must have a monitoring
manhole or arrangement acceptable to the Village. Each discharge point will be
identified and reported on separately.
Sec. 70-253. Testing.
Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto. Test results must contain
the time, date, and place of sampling, names of laboratories and persons
sampling and analyzing the material. All laboratories providing test results
for any reports, shall have an active quality control and quality assurance
program in operationto provide reliable and accurate test data and be State-
certified. Flow must be measured and recorded for each day that samples are
taken and included in the reports. Each sewer user must maintain records of
average daily flow and maximum daily flow at all discharge points.
** Secs. 70-254-70-259. Reserved. **
DIVISION 5. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
Sec. 70-260. Protection from Damage.
No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with the system or any component thereof.
Sec. 70-261. Connection of Privately Constructed Sanitary Sewer Systems to the
Wastewater System.
Before any sanitary sewer system constructed by private, as distinguished from
public, funding (hereinafter referred to as (private a sanitary sewer) shall be
permitted to connect to the System, the owner of said system (hereinafter
referred to as the developer) shall do and provide the Village with the
following:
   (a)   Provide the Village with the developer's plans and specifications for
construction, an estimate of the cost of a construction, and performance
guarantee, and deposit with the Village the sum of one (1 %) percent of the
cost of construction to cover the cost of hiring a registered professional
engineer to review plans and specifications, which money shall be placed by the
Village in an escrow account in the name of the developer.
   (b)   Obtain approval by the Village Council of the plans and
specifications.
   (c)   Secure all necessary permits for construction.
Upon commencement of construction of the private sanitary sewer, deposit with
the Village in the escrow account referred to in subparagraph C.1 of this
Section, a sum equal to seven (7%) percent of the cost of construction to cover
the anticipated cost of inspection of construction. Upon completion of
construction of the private sanitary sewer, and upon recommendation of the
Village Engineer approval by the Village Council, the performance guarantee
shall be released and any monies remaining in the developer's escrow account
shall be returned to the developer. Any additional expenses incurred by the
Village in assuring that the private sanitary sewer is properly operating shall
be deducted there from or charged directly to the developer at the option of
the Village.
Sec. 70-262. Maintenance of Public Sanitary Sewers and Building Sewers.
The Village shall be responsible to clean and maintain Public Sanitary Sewers,
but shall not clean and maintain building sewers. Building sewers shall extend
from buildings to public sanitary sewers and shall include wyes or tees for
connection to public sanitary sewers.
Sec. 70-263. Administration.
The Village Council is charged with the responsibility of administering the
system and enforcing this Ordinance.
Sec. 70-264. Power and Authority of Inspectors.
Duly authorized employees of the Village bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurements sampling and testing in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. Duly authorized employees of the Village
may enter at all reasonable times in or upon private or public property for the
purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions or practices which may be in
violation of this Ordinance or detrimental to the system. Duly authorized
employees of the Village shall inspect the on-site work occurring by reason of
any system permit. Such person shall have the right to issue a cease and desist
order on the site upon finding a violation of said permit or of this Ordinance.
The order shall contain a statement of the specific violation and the
appropriate means of correcting the same and the time within which correction
shall be made.
Secs. 70-265--70-270. Reserved
DIVISION 6. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec,70-271. Penalties.
   (a)   What constitutes a violation. Whenever, by the provisions of this
Ordinance, the performance of any act is required, or the performance of any
act is prohibited, a failure to comply with such provisions shall constitute a
violation of this Ordinance. In addition, the failure, neglect or refusal to
comply with a cease and desist order of the enforcing agency shall constitute a
violation of this Ordinance.
   (b)   Criminal proceedings to punish violations. A person violating any of
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed
Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars and cost of prosecution, by confinement in the
County Jail for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days, or both such fine and
confinement in the discretion of the Court. Each day that a violation of this
Ordinance is continued or is permitted to continue to exist shall constitute a
separate offense, provided that no person shall be confined or jailed for a
single but continuing violation for a period longer than ninety (90) days.
   (c)   Civil procedures to compel compliance. The Village may bring a civil
proceeding for a mandatory injunction or injunctive order or for such other
remedial relief as will correct or remedy the violation, including damages for
the costs or expenses thereof. The Village may join in such action or actions
any number of property owners.
   (d)   Notification and Appeal. Users of the Village of Lexington Sanitary
Sewer System may appeal Cost Recovery Surcharges. Appeals shall be directed to
the Village of Lexington in writing and shall state the cause and basis for
appeal. The Village shall notify Users whenever rates are adjusted for any
reason.
   (e)   Falsifying Information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
Ordinance, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this Ordinance, shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than Five Hundred ($500.00)
Dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or by both.
Sec. 70-272. Repealer Clause.
All other ordinances, resolutions, orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby
expressly repealed, subject to the qualifications stated in the Savings Clause
of this Section as of the date this Ordinance becomes effective.
Sec. 70-273. Savings Clause.
This Ordinance shall in no manner affect pending litigation, either civil or
criminal, founded or growing out of any Ordinance, resolution, order or parts
thereof, hereby repealed, and this Ordinance shall in no manner affect any
rights, claims, privileges, immunities or causes of action of the Village,
County or any other person, either criminal or civil, that may have already
occurred, accrued or grown out of any Ordinance, resolution, order or policy,
or any part thereof, hereby repealed.
Sec. 70-274. Validity and Severability,
It is the legislative intent of the Village in adopting this Ordinance that all
provisions hereof shall be liberally construed to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the Village and other persons
affected by this Ordinance, and consequently, should any provision of this
Ordinance be held to be unconstitutional, invalid, or of no effect, each
holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity of any of the
remaining provisions of this Ordinance it being the intent of the District that
this Ordinance shall stand and remain in effect, notwithstanding the invalidity
of any provisions hereof.
Conflict
All ordinances, and parts of or ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed
hereby to the extent of such conflict.
ZONING ORDINANCE
Updated August 2025
7227 Huron Avenue
Lexington, MI 48450
Phone: 810-359–8631
 
***** TABLE OF CONTENTS *****
AMENDMENTS 
ARTICLE 1: TITLE & PURPOSE
SEC.
1.1 TITLE
SEC.
1.2 PURPOSE
SEC.
1.3 SCOPE & CONSTRUCTION OF REGULATIONS
SEC.
1.4 VALIDITY & SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
SEC.
1.5 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS, & AGREEMENTS
SEC.
1.6 VESTED RIGHT
SEC.
1.7 LAND USE PERMITS
ARTICLE 2: DEFINTIONS
SEC.
2.1 RULES APPLYING TO TEXT
SEC.
2.2 DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 3: ADMINISTRATION & ENFORCEMENT
SEC.
3.1 ZONING ADMINISTRATION
SEC.
3.2 DUTIES
SEC.
3.3 SPECIAL LAND USES
SEC.
3.4 SITE PLAN REVIEW
SEC.
3.5 SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECT REGULATIONS
SEC.
3.6 USE OF CONSULTANTS
SEC.
3.7 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE
SEC.
3.8 FEES
SEC.
3.9 VIOLATIONS & PENALTIES
SEC.
3.10 AMENDMENTS
SEC.
3.11 CONDITIONAL REZONING
ARTICLE 4: ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SEC.
4.1 DISTRICT DESIGNATIONS
SEC.
4.2 ZONING DISTRICT MAP
SEC.
4.3 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SEC.
4.4 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT (AG)
SEC.
4.5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
SEC.
4.6 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-2 AND R-3)
SEC.
4.7 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT (MHP)
SEC.
4.8 MIXED USE & CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS (C-MU, G-MU, AND CBD)
SEC.
4.9 GC, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SEC.
4.10 I-MU, INDUSTRIAL MIXED-USE DISTRICT
SEC.
4.11 SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 5: GENERAL & SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SEC.
5.1 INTENT
SEC.
5.2 CLUSTER HOUSING OPTION
SEC.
5.3 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION
SEC.
5.4 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
SEC.
5.5 EMERGENCY TEMPORARY DWELLINGS
SEC.
5.6 BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
SEC.
5.7 MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS
SEC.
5.8 DAY CARE FACILITIES
SEC.
5.9 ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILTIES
SEC.
5.10 HOME OCCUPATIONS
SEC.
5.11 SEASONAL SALES
SEC.
5.12 GARAGE SALES, RUMMAGE SALES, & SIMILAR SERVICES
SEC.
5.13 ESSENTIAL SERVICES
SEC.
5.14 SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES
SEC.
5.15 OUTDOOR SALES & OPEN-AIR BUSINESSES
SEC.
5.16 GENERAL, BUILDING & LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR’S OFFICES & YARDS
SEC.
5.17 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS
SEC.
5.18 OUTDOOR DISPLAYS OF PRODUCTS OR MATERIALS INTENDED FOR RETAIL SALE OR
RENTAL
SEC.
5.19 SIDEWALK CAFE SERVICE
SEC.
5.20 BED & BREAKFAST ACCOMMODATIONS
SEC.
5.21 MINERAL MINING & EXTRACTIVE OPERATIONS
SEC.
5.22 BUILDING TO BE MOVED OR DEMOLISHED
SEC.
5.23 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
SEC.
5.24 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SEC.
5.25 SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SEC.
5.26 ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
SEC.
5.27 MIXED-USE BUILDINGS
SEC.
5.28 REQUIRED SIDEWALKS & NON-MOTORIZED SITE AMENITIES
SEC.
5.29 ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE
SEC.
5.30 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SEC.
5.31 CHICKEN ORDINANCE
ARTICLE 6: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION & DESIGN PROVISIONS
SEC.
6.1 PURPOSE
SEC.
6.2 LANDSCAPING, GREENBELTS & BUFFERS, & SCREENING
SEC.
6.3 FENCES, WALLS, & SCREENS
SEC.
6.4 AIRBORNE EMISSIONS
SEC.
6.6 USE, STORAGE & HANDLING OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE; STORAGE & DISPOSAL OF SOLID
SEC.
6.7 ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE, ELECTROMAGNETIC, OR RADIO FREQUENCY INTERFERENCE
SEC.
6.8 GLARE & EXTERIOR LIGHTING
SEC.
6.9 FIRE HAZARD
SEC.
6.10 SAFETY
SEC.
6.11 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
SEC.
6.12 REGULATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SEC.
6.13 BUILDING GRADES
SEC.
6.14 SHORELINE/WATER PROTECTION
ARTICLE 7: PUD-PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SEC.
7.1 PURPOSE & INTENT
SEC.
7.2 PUD REGULATIONS
SEC.
7.3 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW
SEC.
7.4 PROJECT DESIGN STANDARDS
SEC.
7.5 CONDITIONS
SEC.
7.6 PHASING & COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION
SEC.
7.7 EFFECT OF APPROVAL
ARTICLE 8: SIGNS
SEC.
8.1 INTENT & PURPOSE
SEC.
8.2 PERMIT
SEC.
8.3 EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT
SEC.
8.4 DEFINITIONS
SEC.
8.5 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WALL & FREE-STANDING SIGNS
SEC.
8.6 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR WALL SIGNS, FREE-STANDING SIGNS & MURALS
SEC.
8.7 PERMITTED PROJECTING SIGNS
SEC.
8.8 PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS & PROMOTIONAL BANNERS
SEC.
8.9 PERMITTED BILLBOARDS
SEC.
8.10 MISCELLANEOUS PERMITTED SIGNS
SEC.
8.11 PROHIBITED SIGNS
SEC.
8.12 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE
ARTICLE 9: OFF-STREET PARKING & LOADING
SEC.
9.1 INTENT & PURPOSE
SEC.
9.2 GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC.
9.3 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
SEC.
9.4 TABLE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
SEC.
9.5 OFF-STREET PARKING LOT DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION
SEC.
9.6 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
SEC.
9.7 OFF-STREET STACKING SPACE FOR DRIVE- THROUGH FACILITIES
SEC.
9.8 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
ARTICLE 10: NON-CONFORMING USES, STUCTURES & LOTS
SEC.
10.1 INTENT
SEC.
10.2 NON-CONFORMING LOTS
SEC.
10.3 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND
SEC.
10.4 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES
SEC.
10.5 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES & LAND
SEC.
10.6 REPAIRS & MAINTENANCE
SEC.
10.7 USES ALLOWED AS SPECIAL LAND USES, NOT NON-CONFORMING USES
SEC.
10.8 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP
SEC.
10.9 NON-CONFORMING USES OF SIGNS
ARTICLE 11: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SEC.
11.1 AUTHORITY
SEC.
11.2 MEMBERSHIP
SEC.
11.3 REMOVAL OF MEMBER(S) CONFLICT OF INTEREST
SEC.
11.4 MEETINGS
SEC.
11.5 POWERS & DUTIES
SEC.
11.6 PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL
SEC.
11.7 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
SEC.
11.8 REPEAL
SEC.
11.9 EFFECTIVE DATE
AMENDMENTS
The first version of this zoning ordinance became effective on September 11,
2020, following a major revision to the zoning ordinance that was adopted in
2004 and had undergone twenty-one revisions. The first version and the previous
version are archived on the Village website.
Section Version 1.1 – Amendments to Version Approval Date
Section   Version 1.1 – Amendments to Version 1                                       Approval
                                                                                        Date
          Adds and clarifies definitions:
             Accessible EV charging station.
             Accessory buildings and structures. Battery charging station.
             Charging levels.
2.2          Dumpster.                                                               5/22/23
             Electric vehicle (EV).
             EV charging station, private restricted use EV charging station, public
          use.
             EV infrastructure. Non-electric vehicle.
             Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle.
3.2.6     Substitutes general language for the duties of the Zoning Administrator       5/22/23
3.4.1.3   Clarifies full site plan not required for some buildings                      5/22/23
3.4.10    Eliminates conflicting language regarding violations                          5/22/23
3.5.2.2   Eliminates public road requirement for site condominium projects              12/18/23
3.9       References fee schedule rather than resolution for violations & penalties     5/22/23
4.11.1.8  Footnote clarifies process for deck approval                                  5/22/23
5.4.1.1.  Exempts requirements for temporary buildings on premises less than 72 hours   5/22/23
          during any 30-day period
5.4.1.11  Prohibits using a cargo container or storage pod as an accessory building,    5/22/23
5.6.5.11. Clarifies setback for a front-facing garage.                                  12/20/21
b.
5.7.10.18 Clarifies fencing is not permitted on mobile home lots.                       12/20/21
5.29      New ordinance for Electrical Vehicle Infrastructure                           5/22/23
6.2.9     Eliminates required dumpster enclosure                                        5/22/23
6.10.1.1                                                                                
6.10.1..2                                                                               
6.10.1..3                                                                               
11.2      Increases number of members in Zoning Board of Appeals                        12/20/21
 
***** ARTICLE 1: TITLE & PURPOSE *****
Sec. 1.1 TITLE
This Ordinance shall be known and cited as the Village of Lexington Zoning
Ordinance
Sec. 1.2 PURPOSE
The purpose of this Ordinance is to promote, protect, regulate, restrict and
provide for the use of land and buildings within the Village of Lexington; to
meet the needs of the state’s residents for places of residence, recreation,
industry, trade, service, and other uses of land; to ensure that uses of the
land shall be situated in appropriate locations and relationships; to limit the
inappropriate overcrowding of land and congestion of population and
transportation systems and other public facilities; to facilitate adequate and
efficient provision for transportation systems, sewage disposal, water, energy,
education, recreation, and other public service and facility needs; and to
promote public health, safety, and welfare.
In providing for all of these uses, services and infrastructure, the Village of
Lexington shall be promoting and approving the development of land and the
extension of utilities in a logical and consistent pattern consistent with the
continuation of the existing street patterns and the implementation of the
traditional town pattern of interconnecting blocks. The Village is divided into
districts which include regulations designating land uses or activities that
shall be permitted or subjected to special regulations.
It is also the purpose of this Ordinance to provide for the establishment of a
Board of Appeals and its powers and duties; to provide for the administration
and enforcement hereof and for penalties for its violation; and to provide for
the repeal of any and all ordinances inconsistent herewith.
Sec. 1.3 SCOPE & CONSTRUCTION OF REGULATIONS
1.3.1.This Ordinance shall be liberally construed in such manner as to best
implement its purpose. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
Ordinance, the requirements shall be held to be the minimum for the promotion
of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general
welfare.
1.3.2. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered, and no new use or change of use shall
be made of any building, structure, land, or part thereof, except as permitted
by the provisions of this Ordinance.
1.3.3. Where a condition imposed by a provision of this Ordinance upon the use
of any lot, building, or structure is conflicting with a condition imposed by
any other provision of this Ordinance, or by the provision of an ordinance
adopted under any other law, the provision which is more restrictive shall
govern.
1.3.4. Nothing within this Ordinance shall be construed to prevent compliance
with an order by the appropriate authority to correct, improve, strengthen, or
restore to a safe or healthy condition, any part of a building or premises
declared unsafe or unhealthy.
Sec. 1.4 VALIDITY & SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
If a court of competent jurisdiction shall declare any part of this Ordinance
to be invalid, such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of this
Ordinance not specifically included in said ruling.
If a court of competent jurisdiction shall declare invalid the application of
any provision of this Ordinance to a particular land, parcel, lot, district,
use, building, or structure, such ruling shall not affect the application of
said provision to any other parcel, lot, district, use, building, or structure
not specifically included in said ruling.
Sec. 1.5 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS, & AGREEMENTS
Where any condition imposed by any provision of this Ordinance upon the use of
any lot, building, or structure is either more restrictive or less restrictive
than any comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this Ordinance
or by the provision of any Ordinance adopted under any other law, the provision
which is more restrictive, or which imposes a higher standard or requirement
shall govern.
This Ordinance is not intended to modify or annul any easement, covenant, or
other private agreement provided that where any provision of this Ordinance is
more restrictive or imposes a higher standard or requirement than such
easement, covenant, or other private agreement, the provision of this Ordinance
shall govern.
Sec. 1.6 VESTED RIGHT
It is hereby expressly declared that nothing in this Ordinance be held or
construed to give or grant to any person, firm, or corporation any vested
right, license, privilege, or permit.
Sec. 1.7 LAND USE PERMITS
At the time of adoption of this ordinance, the County of Sanilac Building
Department issues, regulates, and enforces building permits on behalf of the
Village. The Village of Lexington regulates land uses through the issuance of
land use permits. All uses of land regulated by this zoning ordinance must
first receive an approved land use permit except as otherwise specified herein.
All land use permits expire within one year unless construction or said
activity has commenced.
1.7.1. Land Use Permit Application
An application for a land use permit under this ordinance shall be made to the
zoning administrator or his designated agent on a form provided by the Village
and shall contain or have attached thereof the following information:
   1.    Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the owner if
different from the applicant.
   2.    The address of legal description of the lot where the proposed use
will occur,
   3.    The applicant must demonstrate proof of legal possession of the land
for the proposed use.
   4.    A site plan showing the location of the proposed use and its
relationship to all existing and proposed structures and lot lines.
      Plans and specifications for the proposed use including the following
information:
      a.   Exact dimensions including height and distance from structures and
lot lines.
      b.   The type of use according to the definitions of this zoning
ordinance.
      c.   A sketch of the footprint of all buildings and structures and type
and amount of paving and landscaping which will appear on the property.
      d.   The materials out of which the proposed construction is to be made.
1.7.2. Permit Fees
All applications shall be accompanied by a land use permit application fee as
established in the fee schedule which shall be adopted and amended from time to
time by the Village Council. The permit application fee shall reimburse the
Village for the costs of checking the application for compliance with the
ordinance and shall reimburse the Village for the costs of necessary
inspections. The land use fee does not include electrical permits or building
permit fees which may be required.
***** ARTICLE 2: DEFINTIONS *****
Sec. 2.1 RULES APPLYING TO TEXT
The following rules shall apply to the text and language of this Ordinance:
2.1.1.The particular shall control the general.
2.1.2. In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of
this Ordinance and any caption, the text shall control.
2.1.3. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
"may" is permissive.
2.1.4. Words used in the present tense shall include the future, words used in
the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
2.1.5.The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be
construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied."
2.1.6. Any word or term not defined herein shall be used with a meaning of
common or standard utilization.
Sec. 2.2 DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Ordinance, certain words and terms are herewith
defined.
Illustrations of specific definitions are provided.
100- YEAR FLOOD PLAIN. The flood plain that is inundated by a flood with a
magnitude that has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
ACCESSIBLE EV CHARGING STATION. An electric vehicle charging station where the
battery charging station is located within accessible reach of a barrier-free
access aisle and the electric vehicle.
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES. A supplementary building or structure on
the same lot or parcel of land as the principal building, occupied by or
devoted exclusively to an accessory use. This definition refers to both
temporary and permanent structures, and includes canvas, vinyl or similar
carports, storage tents (as opposed to personal recreational tents) and
shelters.
ACCESSORY USE. A use reasonably and customarily, incidental and subordinate to,
the principal use of the premises.
ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and other material which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis depicting, describing, or
relating to sexual conduct or sexual excitement as defined. For the purposes of
this definition "substantial or significant portion of stock" shall be no more
than 20 sq. feet.
ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A state-licensed establishment that provides foster
care to adults. It includes facilities and foster care homes for adults who are
aged, mentally ill, developmentally disabled, or physically handicapped who
require supervision on an ongoing basis but who do not require continuous
nursing care. An adult foster care facility does not include convalescent or
nursing homes, homes for the aged, hospitals, alcohol or substance abuse
rehabilitation center, residential centers for persons released from or
assigned to a correctional facility, or any other facilities which have been
exempted from the definition of adult foster care facility by the Adult Foster
Care Facility Licensing Act, MCL 400.701, et. seq.; MSA 16.610 (61), et. seq.,
as amended. The following additional definitions shall apply in the application
of this Ordinance:
   1.   Adult Foster Care Small Group Home: An owner-occupied facility with the
approved capacity to receive twelve (12) or fewer adults who are provided
supervision, personal care, and protection in addition to room and board, for
twenty-four (24) hours a day, five (5) or more days a week, and for two (2) or
more consecutive weeks for compensation.
   2.   Adult Foster Care Large Group Home: A facility with approved capacity
to receive at least thirteen (13) but not more than twenty (20) adults to be
provided supervision, personal care, and protection in addition to room and
board, twenty- four (24) hours a day, five (5) or more days a week, and for two
(2) or more consecutive weeks.
   3.   Adult Foster Care Family Home: A private residence with the approved
capacity to receive six (6) or fewer adults to be provided supervision,
personal care, and protection in addition to room and board, twenty-four (24)
hours a day, five (5) or more days a week and for two (2) or more consecutive
weeks. The adult foster care family home licensee must be a member of the
household and an occupant of the residence.
   4.   Adult Foster Care Congregate Facility: An adult foster care facility
with the approved capacity to receive more than twenty (20) adults to be
provided with foster care.
ADULT LIVE NUDITY ESTABLISHMENTS. Any establishments which provide live
entertainment for its patrons, which includes the display of nudity.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building used for presenting material
distinguished by an emphasis or matter depicting, describing, or relating to
sexual conduct or sexual excitement.
ADULT PARAPHERNALIA STORE. An establishment having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock, devices, object, tools, or toys which are
distinguished or characterized by their association with sexual activity,
including sexual conduct or sexual excitement. The definition of "substantial
or significant portion of stock" shall be no more than 20 sq. feet.
ADULT USE. For the purposes of this definition, Adult Use shall be defined as
any of the following: Adult Bookstore, Adult Motion Picture Theater, Adult
Paraphernalia Store, Adult Video Store, Live Nudity Establishment and Exotic
Massage Facilities.
ADULT VIDEO STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant portion
of its stock in trade, videos, movies, or other film material which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis depicting, describing, or
relating to sexual conduct or sexual excitement. The definition of substantial
or significant is above mentioned in letter ‘A’.
AGRIBUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Businesses catering exclusively to the agricultural
community. They may include, but not necessarily be limited to, the commercial
production, processing, packaging or sale of farm products, the sale of seed
and feed and livestock auctioning, but shall not include slaughterhouses or
tanneries. For the purposes of this ordinance, an agribusiness shall not
include an open-air farmers market, as defined herein.
AGRITOURISM ESTABLISHMENT. A farm enterprise operated for the enjoyment and
education of the public that may also generate additional farm income by
promoting farm products. An agritourism enterprise includes, but is not limited
to: u-pick fruits and vegetable operations; educational tours; historical
agricultural exhibits; educational classes, lectures, and seminars; petting
farms, animal display and pony rides; outdoor mazes of agricultural origin,
such as straw bales or corn; wagon, sleigh, and hayrides; nature trails;
outdoor picnic areas; the use or rental of farm buildings for special events;
and other similar uses. Overnight sleeping accommodations, except for a bed and
breakfast, are specifically excluded from this definition.
ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES.
   1.   Brewpub: a "brewpub", as defined in the Michigan Liquor Control Code,
Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which is regulated and licensed by the State
of Michigan.
   2.   Micro-Brewery: an establishment of a "micro brewer", as defined in the
Michigan Liquor Control Code, Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which is
regulated and licensed by the State of Michigan.
   3.   Brewery: an establishment of a "brewer", as defined in the Michigan
Liquor Control Code, Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which is regulated and
licensed by the State of Michigan.
   4.   Small Winery: an establishment of a "small wine maker", as defined in
the Michigan Liquor Control Code, Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which is
regulated and licensed by the State of Michigan.
   5.   Winery: an establishment of a "wine maker", as defined in the Michigan
Liquor Control Code, Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which is regulated and
licensed by the State of Michigan.
   6.   Small Distillery: an establishment of a "small distiller", as defined
in the Michigan Liquor Control Code, Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which
is regulated and licensed by the State of Michigan.
   7.   Distillery: an establishment of a "distiller", as defined in the
Michigan Liquor Control Code, Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, which is
regulated and licensed by the State of Michigan.
AUTOMOBILE DEALER. A building or premises used primarily for the sale of new or
used automobiles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding, or
reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame, or
fender straightening and repair, overall painting, and vehicle rustproofing.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place that is used or designed to be used for the
retail supply of gasoline and other fuels used for the propulsion of motor
vehicles, kerosene, motor oil, lubricants, or grease, including sale of
accessories and services, such as: polishing, washing, cleaning, greasing,
undercoating, and minor repairs, but not including bumping, painting, or
refinishing thereof. In addition to automobile service, convenience stores and
carry out restaurants may be included.
AUTOMOBILE WASHES. A building, or portion thereof, the primary purpose of which
is that of washing vehicles either by automatic or self-service means.
AUXILIARY PARKING LOT. A parking area that is provided in excess of required
parking spaces for the permitted use.
BASEMENT. That portion of a building having more than one-half (1/2) of its
height below finished grade (see Figure 1).
FIGURE 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
BATTERY CHARGING STATION. An electrical component assembly or cluster of
component assemblies designed specifically to charge batteries within electric
vehicles.
BATTERY EV. Any vehicle that operates exclusively on electrical energy from an
off-board source that is stored in the vehicle's batteries and produces zero
tailpipe emissions or pollution when stationary or operating.
BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATIONS. A use which is subordinate to the principal use
of a dwelling unit as a single-family dwelling unit and a use in which
transient guests are provided a sleeping room and board in return for payment.
B.F.E. Base Flood Elevation
BLOCK-FRONTAGE. One side of a street between two consecutive intersections.
BOARDING HOUSE. A house (often a family home) in which a lodger(s) rent one or
more rooms for one or more nights.
BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
BUILDING CODE. The currently adopted code or codes regulating building
construction in the Village of Lexington.
BUILDING HEIGHT. The building height is the vertical distance measured from the
finished grade level to the highest point of the roof surface if a flat roof;
to the deck of mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and
ridges of gable, hip, and gambrel roofs. Where the building may be situated on
sloping terrain, this height shall be measured from the average level of the
finished grade at the building wall (see Figure 2).
Figure 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
 
BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  The line established by the minimum required setbacks
forming the area within a lot in which a building may be located.
BUILDING OFFICIAL. The administrative official designated by the Village
Council to enforce the Building Code.
CAMPGROUND. A parcel of land on which more than four (4) recreational vehicles,
trailer coaches, camper-trailers, tents, or other types of shelter are located,
used and occupied for outdoor camping and temporary living quarters for
recreational, educational or vacation purposes.
CEMETERY. One or a combination of more than one of the following:
   1.   A burial ground for earth interments.
   2.   A mausoleum for crypt entombments.
   3.   A crematory for the cremation for human remains.
   4.   A columbarium for the inurnment of cremated remains.
CHARGING LEVELS. The standardized indicators of electrical force, or voltage,
at which an electric vehicle's battery is recharged. The terms 1, 2, and 3 are
the most common charging levels, and include the following specifications:
   1.   Level-I is slow charging. Voltage ranges from 0 through 120.
   2.   Level-2 is medium charging. Voltage ranges from 121 through 240.
   3.   Level-3 is fast or rapid charging. Voltage range greater than 240.
COMMERCIAL USE. The use of property in connection with the purchase, sale,
barter, display, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise, or personal
services, and the maintenance or operation of offices.
CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A nursing care facility, including a county
medical care facility, but excluding a hospital or a facility created by Act
No. 152 of the Public Acts of 1985, as amended, being Sections 36.1 to 36.12 of
the Michigan Compiled Laws, which provides organized nursing care and medical
treatment to seven (7) or more unrelated individuals suffering or recovering
from illness, injury, or infirmity.
CONVENIENCE GROCERY STORE. A one-story, retail store that is designed and
stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to
customers who purchase only a relatively few items (in contrast to a
"supermarket"). Convenience grocery stores are designed to attract a large
volume of stop-and-go traffic.
DAY CARE FACILITIES. The following definitions shall apply in the application
of this Ordinance:
   1.   Family Day Care Home: A state-licensed, owner-occupied private
residence in which one (1) but not more than six (6) minor children are
received for care and supervision for periods less than twenty-four (24) hours
a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, excepting children related to
an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. It includes a
home that gives care to an unrelated child for more than four (4) weeks in a
calendar year.
   2.   Group Day Care Home: A state-licensed, owner-occupied private residence
in which seven (7) but not more than twelve (12) children are received for care
and supervision for periods less than twenty-four (24) hours a day unattended
by a parent or legal guardian, excepting children related to an adult member of
the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. It includes a home that gives care
to an unrelated child for more than four (4) weeks in a calendar year.
   3.   Day Care Center: A state-licensed facility, other than a private
residence, receiving one (1) or more children for care and supervision for
periods less than twenty-four (24) hours, and where the parents or guardians
are not immediately available to the child.
DESIGN REVIEW. Process of review and approval prior to the issuance of land use
permits by the Zoning Administrator and the Planning Commission of architecture
renderings, building plans, exterior materials, and site plans pertaining to
new construction of residential, single-family dwellings proposed on cottage
lots within the R-1 zone districts.
DISTRICT. A portion of the Village within which certain uses of land and/or
buildings are permitted and within which certain regulations and requirements
apply under the provisions of this Ordinance.
DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment so developed that its
retail or service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach so as
to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than within a building or
structure. This definition shall not include a drive-through restaurant, which
is separately defined and regulated by this Ordinance.
DUMPSTER. A bin or other rigid container that is placed long-term at a property
for the purpose of temporary storage of solid waste, site-separated materials,
or source-separated materials, as defined in this chapter, for periodic pick-up
by a waste hauler.
DWELLING. A dwelling is a building used exclusively as a residence by not more
than one (1) family but in no case shall a travel trailer, motor home, trailer
coach, automobile chassis, tent or other portable building be considered a
dwelling.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, used or designed as
residences for three (3) or more families living independently of each other
and each doing their own cooking in the building, with the number of families
in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for, or occupied
exclusively by, one (1) family, and containing one (1) dwelling unit only.
DWELLING, STACKED. A dwelling where units are stacked above each other such as
lofts.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A self-contained single dwelling unit attached to a
similar single dwelling unit with party or common walls, designed as part of a
series of three (3) or more dwelling units, each with: a separate entryway with
direct access to the outdoors at ground level, a separate basement, a separate
garage, separate utility connections and defined front yards. Townhouses may
also be known as attached single-family dwelling units, row houses, clustered
single-family dwellings, or stack ranches. Any three (3) or more attached
dwellings not meeting the above criteria shall be considered a multiple- family
dwelling.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two (2) dwellings.
EASEMENT. The right of an owner of property by reason of such ownership, to use
the property of another for purposes of ingress, egress, utilities, drainage,
and similar uses.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV).  Any vehicle that is licensed and registered for
operation on public and private highways, roads, and streets; either partially
or exclusively, on electrical energy from the grid, or an off-board source,
that is stored on-board via a battery for motive purpose.
"Electric vehicle" includes:
   1.   Battery electric vehicle
   2.   Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle
   3.   EV CHARGING STATION.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services that are erected, constructed, altered, or
maintained by public utilities or municipal agencies of underground, surface,
or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, poles, and other similar equipment or accessories
reasonably in connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by
such public utilities or municipal agencies.
EV CHARGING STATION. A public or private parking space that is served by
battery charging station equipment that has as its primary purpose the transfer
of electric energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery or other
energy storage device in an electric vehicle.
EV CHARGING STATION, PRIVATE RESTRICTED USE. An electric vehicle charging
station that is (I) privately owned and restricted access (e.g., single-family
home, executive parking, designated employee parking) or (2) publicly owned and
restricted (e.g., fleet parking with no access to the general public).
EV CHARGING STATION, PUBLIC USE. An electric vehicle charging station that is
(I) publicly owned and publicly available (e.g., Village Office or Tierney Park
parking lot) or (2) privately owned and available to visitors of the use (e.g.,
grocery store parking).
EV INFRASTRUCTURE. Conduit/wiring, structures, machinery, and equipment
necessary and integral to support an electric vehicle, including battery
charging stations.
EXTRACTIVE OPERATION. Premises from which any rock, gravel, sand, topsoil, or
earth in excess of fifty (50) cubic yards in any calendar year is excavated or
removed for the purpose of disposition away from the premises except excavation
in connection with the construction of a building or within public highway
rights-of-way.
FAMILY. An individual or a group of two (2) or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, together with foster children and servants of the
principal occupants, with no more than one (1) additional unrelated person, who
are domiciled together as a single, domestic, housekeeping unit in a dwelling
unit, or A collective number of individuals domiciled together in one (1)
dwelling unit whose relationship is of a continuing non- transient domestic
character and who are cooking and living as a single non-commercial
housekeeping unit. This definition shall not include any society, club,
fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, coterie, organization, or group of
students or other individuals whose domestic relationship is of a transitory or
seasonal nature or for an anticipated limited duration of a school term or
terms or other similar determinable period.
FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FENCE. A permanent or temporary barrier enclosing or bordering a plot of land
or portion thereof composed of suitable man-made materials for the purpose of
preventing or controlling entrance or to confine within or to mark boundary.
FLEA MARKET. Sale activity held within a building, structure, or an open area
where groups of individual sellers offer goods, new and/or used for sale to the
public, not to include private garage sales or rummage sales.
FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the building measured from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of walls
separating two buildings.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). Ratio of total floor area of the home compared to the
lot area, not including spaces below grade and accessory structures. (Ex. FAR =
.5 and lot area = 10,000: 10,000 sq. ft. x .5 = 5,000 sq. ft. max floor area).
GARAGE. A structure which is accessory to a principal residential dwelling, and
which is used for the parking and storage of vehicles owned and operated by the
residents thereof.
GRADE. The degree of rise or descent of a sloping surface.
GRADE, FINISHED. The final elevation of the ground surface after development.
GRADE, NATURAL. The elevation of the ground surface in its natural state before
man-made alternations.
HARDSHIP, UNNECESSARY. An unnecessary hardship is governed by the four
following rules. An applicant’s personal hardship that does not relate to the
land is not sufficient to support a variance.
   1.   Unnecessary hardship is a circumstance of a property owner’s land such
that if used in strict compliance with the zoning ordinance, the property
cannot yield a reasonable return (not "the owner’s greatest desired return").
   2.   Furthermore, an unnecessary hardship must be unique, and not a
condition that prevails generally throughout the zoning district. (Unique: A
situation having no like or equal, highly unusual, extraordinary, or rare.)
   3.   The owner must also establish that the use of the property will not
change the character of the neighborhood if the variance is granted.
   4.   The circumstance of the asserted hardship must not be self-created.
HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is clearly a
customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and
which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential
character of the neighborhood.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY. A building or group of buildings containing dwellings
where the occupancy of the dwellings is restricted to persons sixty-two (62)
years of age or older, or couples where either spouse is sixty-two (62) years
of age or older. This does not include an adult foster care facility, home for
the aged, or nursing home.
IGLD 85. International Great Lakes Datum of 1985.
JUNK YARD. A place, structure, parcel, or use of land where junk, waste,
discard, salvage, or similar materials such as old iron or the metal, wood,
lumber, glass, paper, rags, cloth, leather, rubber, bagging, cordage, barrels,
containers, etc., are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including auto wrecking yards, inoperative machines,
used lumber yards, housing wrecking, and structural steel materials and
equipment, and including establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage or
salvaged machinery and the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged
materials, for any thirty (30) consecutive days.
KENNEL. A kennel is any place or premise where three (3) or more adult dogs,
cats, or other domestic pets are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for in
return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
LANDSCAPING. The following definitions shall apply in the application of this
Ordinance:
   1.   Berm: A landscaped mound of earth which blends with the surrounding
terrain.
   2.   Buffer: A landscaped area composed of living material, wall, berm, or
combination thereof, established and/or maintained to provide visual screening,
noise reduction, and transition between conflicting types of land uses.
   3.   Conflicting non-residential land use: Any non-residential use, such as
office, commercial, industrial, research, parking or public road right-of-way
land use which abuts a residential land use.
   4.   Conflicting residential use: Any residential land use developed at a
higher density which abuts a residential land use developed at a lower density.
   5.   Greenbelt: A landscaped area, established at a depth of the minimum
required front yard setback within a Zoning District, which is intended to
provide a transition between a public road right-of-way and an existing or
proposed land use and/or between a conflicting land use and an existing or
proposed land use.
   6.   Opacity: The state of being impervious to sight.
   7.    Plant material: A collection of living evergreens and/or deciduous,
woody-stemmed trees, shrubs, vines, and ground cover.
LIVING QUARTERS. A building or area in a building designed as an abode
distinguished with kitchen facilities that compliment sleeping facilities.
LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building or group of
buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and/or
unloading merchandise or materials.
LODGING FACILITY. Any establishment in which individual units are rented to
transients for periods of less than thirty (30) days for the purpose of
sleeping accommodations. The term shall include hotels and motels but shall not
include bed and breakfast operations, multiple- family dwellings or rooming
houses.
LOT. Parcel of land, excluding any portion in a street or other right-of-way,
of at least sufficient size to meet minimum requirements for use, coverage, lot
area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as herein required. Such
lot shall have frontage on a public street, or on an approved private street,
and may consist of:
   1.   A single lot of record;
   2.   A portion of a lot of record;
   3.   Any combination of complete and/or portions of lots of record;
   4.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot but excluding
that portion within a street right-of-way.
LOT, CORNER. A lot with frontage on two intersecting streets. (See Figure 3)
LOT, COTTAGE. A lot of record in a R-1 single family residential zone that is
smaller in area or width than the requirements of the zone that it occupies.
The lot must have existed prior to January 1, 2017. Cottage lots are exempt
from all provisions of Article 10, the non- conformity article, of this
ordinance.
LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance from the front line to the rear lot
line; or in the Lot Area. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a
lot but excluding that portion within a street right-of-way.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2)
more or less parallel streets. In the case of a row of double frontage lots,
one (1) street will be designated as the front street for all lots in the plat
and in the request for a zoning compliance permit. If there are existing
structures in the same block fronting one or both of the streets, the required
front yard setback shall be observed on those streets where structures
presently front. (See Figure 3)
FIGURE 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
 
LOT, INTERIOR. An interior lot is a lot other than a corner lot with only one
(1) lot line fronting on a street.
LOT, WIDTH. The required horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at the two (2) points where the required front yard setback line
intersects the side lot lines. For lots located on the turning circle of a cul-
de-sac, the lot width may be reduced to eighty (80%) percent of the required
lot width.
LOT LINES. Any line dividing one lot from another or from a public right-of-
way, and thus constitutes the property lines bounding a lot.
LOT OF RECORD. A lot of record is a lot, the dimensions of which are shown on a
subdivision plat recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Sanilac
County, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the accuracy of which
is attested to by a Professional Engineer or Registered Surveyor, so designated
by the State of Michigan, and said description so recorded or on file with the
County.
MANUFACTURED HOME. A mass-produced structure, (premanufactured, prefabricated,
modular, or mobile home), transportable in one (1) or more sections, that may
be built on a chassis, designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without a
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, including the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems, and assembled at
other than the final location of the unit of the building or structures by a
repetitive process under circumstances intended to insure uniformity of quality
and material content. Said structures to be built to either the Michigan State
Construction Code Act of 1972, as amended, (MCL 125.1501-1536) and/or the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as
amended (42 U.S.C. 5401-5426). For the purposes of this Ordinance, a
manufactured home shall be considered and regulated as a mobile home.
MANUFACTURING. The use of land, buildings, or structures for the purpose of
manufacturing, assembly, making, preparing, inspecting, finishing, treating,
altering, repairing, warehousing, or storing or adapting for sale or other use
of any goods, substance, article, thing, or service.
MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE. The use of land, buildings, or structures for the purpose
of manufacturing, assembly, making, preparing, inspecting, finishing, treating,
altering, repairing, warehousing, or storing or adapting for sale or other use
of any goods, substance, article, thing, or service.
MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE. Total permitted area of a lot that is not open space due
to structures built on the land. Structures such as principal buildings,
garages, accessory buildings, decks, porches, and parking lots are counted.
Ground covering such as residential driveways, gazebos, yard ornaments and
signs are not counted.
MDEQ. Former Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, now known as the
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy.
MEZZANINE. Is an intermediate floor in any story occupying but not to exceed
more than one-third (1/3) of the floor area of such story.
MOBILE HOME. A detached portable single-family dwelling, prefabricated on its
own chassis and intended for long-term occupancy. The unit contains sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a wash basin, a tub, or shower, eating and
living quarters. It is designed to be transported on its own wheels or flatbed
arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete dwelling without
permanent foundation and connected to existing utilities.
MOBILE HOME PARK. Any parcel of land intended and designed to accommodate more
than one (1) mobile home or manufactured home for living use which is offered
to the public for that purpose; and any structure, facility, area, or equipment
used or intended for use incidental to that living use.
NATIVE VEGETATION. An indigenous plant that occurs naturally in a particular
ecosystem. See OURS TO PROTECT, Natural Features Inventory and Natural
Landscaping Recommendations for Lexington’s Public Lakefronts. A project of the
Village of Lexington Environmental Committee, 2012. General Resource Guide
available for review at the Lexington Village Office, 7227 Huron Ave. Suite
100, Lexington Mi.
NAVD 88. North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A non-conforming building is a building or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the effective date of this Ordinance, or
amendments thereto, and which does not conform to the provisions of the
Ordinance in the zoning district in which it is located.
NON-CONFORMING USE.  A non-conforming use is a use which lawfully occupied a
building or land at the effective date of this Ordinance, or amendments
thereto, and that does not conform to the use regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
NON-ELECTRIC VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that does not meet the definition of
electric vehicle.
NURSERY, GREENHOUSE, OR GARDEN CENTER. A building or structure, and lands
associated therewith, for the growing of flowers, fruits, vegetables, plants,
shrubs, trees, or similar vegetation together with gardening tools and
implements which are sold at retail from such building or lot to the general
public.
OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. A land surface or facility providing vehicular parking
spaces along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering so as to provide
access for entrance and exit for the parking of more than two (2) automobiles.
OHWM. Ordinary High-Water Mark.
OPEN AIR ‘FARMERS MARKET’. A ‘Farm Market’ is defined as an open-air market
within the Village of Lexington. The Farm Market is required to be permitted by
the Village and is limited in days and times as provided by the rules, fees,
and conditions as prescribed by the Village Council. Retail sales may include;
   1.   Retail fruits, vegetables, and perishable foods.
   2.   Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, flowers, seeds, bulbs, topsoil, and
organic fertilizer.
   3.   Home baked goods such as pies, bread, cookies, and cakes.
   4.   Canned pickles, fruit, and vegetables
   5.   The products listed in #3 and #4 shall be compliant with the rules of
the Sanilac County Health Department (SCHD) and be labeled appropriately.
   6.   Wine – Local wine makers may offer samples; sell their product
providing they display a permit from MLCC (Michigan Liquor Control Commission)
and are in compliance with SB 79 of 2013.
ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK. The line of the shore established by fluctuations of
water and indicated by physical characteristics such as clear, natural line
impressed on the bank, shelving, changes in the character soil, destruction of
terrestrial vegetation, the presence of litter and debris o other appropriate
mean that consider the characteristics of the surrounding areas.
PARKING SPACE. One (1) unit of a parking area provided for the parking of one
(1) vehicle, and shall be exclusive of driveways, aisles, or entrances giving
access thereto and shall be fully accessible for the storage or parking of
permitted vehicles.
PLUG-IN HYBRID ELECTRIC VEHICLE. An electric vehicle that (I) contains an
internal combustion engine and also allows power to be delivered to drive
wheels by an electric motor; (2) charges its battery primarily by connecting to
the grid or other off-board electrical source; (3) may additionally be able to
sustain battery charge using an on-board internal- combustion-driven generator;
and (4) can travel powered by electricity.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The main building or structure in which the
primary use is conducted.
PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, or municipal agency authorized
under Federal, State, County, or municipal regulations to furnish electricity,
gas, communications, transportation, water, or sewer services.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. "Recreational Vehicles" shall include the following:
   1.   Boats and Boat Trailers: "Boats" and "boat trailers" shall include
boats, floats, rafts, canoes, plus the normal equipment to transport them on
the highway.
   2.   Folding Tent Trailer: A canvas folding structure, mounted on wheels,
and designed for travel and vacation use.
   3.   Motor Home: A recreational vehicle intended for temporary human
habitation, sleeping, and/or eating, mounted upon a chassis with wheels and
capable of being moved from place to place under its own power. Motor homes
generally contain sanitary, water, and electrical facilities.
   4.   Other Recreational Equipment: Other recreational equipment includes
snowmobiles, all-terrain or special terrain vehicles, utility trailers, plus
the normal equipment to transport them on the highway.
   5.   Pickup Camper: A structure designed to be mounted on a pickup or truck
chassis with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use as a temporary
dwelling during the process of travel, recreational, and vacation uses.
   6.    Travel Trailer: A portable vehicle on a chassis, not exceeding thirty-
six (36) feet in length or nine (9) feet in width, which is designed to be used
as a temporary dwelling during travel, recreational, and vacation uses, and
which may be identified as a "travel trailer" by the manufacturer. Travel
trailers generally contain sanitary, water, and electrical facilities.
RESTAURANT. A restaurant is any establishment whose principal business is the
sale of food and beverages to the customer in a ready-to-consume state, and
whose method of operation is characteristic of a carry-out, drive-in, drive-
through, fast-food, sit-down restaurant, or bar/lounge, or combination thereof,
as defined below.
   1.    Restaurant, Carry-Out: A carry-out restaurant is a restaurant whose
method of operation involves sale of food, beverages, and/or frozen desserts in
disposable or edible containers or wrappers in a ready-to-consume state for
consumption primarily off the premises.
   2.   Restaurant, Drive-in: A restaurant designed to permit or facilitate the
serving of meals, sandwiches, ice cream, beverages, or other food served
directly to or permitted to be consumed by patrons in cars or other vehicles
parked on the premises or permitted to be consumed by patrons elsewhere on the
site outside the main building.
   3.   Restaurant, Drive-through: A restaurant whose method of operation
involves minimum waiting for delivery of ready-to-consume food to the customer
at a window, permitting the customer to remain in its vehicle, for consumption
primarily off the premises.
   4.   Restaurant, Fast Food: A fast-food restaurant is a restaurant whose
method of operation involves minimum waiting for delivery of ready-to-consume
food to the customer at a counter or cafeteria line for consumption at the
counter where it is served, or at tables, booths, or stands inside or outside
of the structure, or for consumption off the premises, but not in a motor
vehicle at the site.
   5.   Restaurant, Sit Down: A sit- down restaurant is a restaurant whose
method of operation involves either the delivery of prepared food by waiters
and waitresses to customers seated at tables within a completely enclosed
building, or the prepared food is acquired by customers at a cafeteria line and
is subsequently consumed by the customers at tables within a completely
enclosed building.
   6.   Bar/Lounge: A bar or lounge is a type of restaurant which is operated
primarily for the dispensing of alcoholic beverages, although the sale of
prepared food or snacks may also be permitted. If a bar or lounge is part of a
larger dining facility, it shall be defined as that part of the structure so
designated or operated.
RIGHT-OF-WAY. A legal right of passage over real property typically associated
with roads and railroads.
ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling in which more than three (3) persons either
individually or as families are housed or lodged for hire without meals.
SCREEN. A structure providing enclosure, such as a fence, and/or visual barrier
between the area enclosed and the adjacent property. A screen may also consist
of living materials such as trees and shrubs.
SEASONAL PARKING LOT. A parking area designed to service a limited, defined
group of users less than six (6) months per year during the non-winter months.
SENIOR ASSISTED LIVING. A type of semi-independent housing facility for senior
citizens containing congregate kitchen, dining, and living areas, but with
separate sleeping rooms. Such facilities typically provide special support
services, such as transportation and limited medical care.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT LIVING. Typically, multiple-family dwelling units occupied
by persons 55 years of age or older. Units will include individual kitchen
facilities; however, common dining and community facilities may be provided.
SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between the building or
structure and the front, side, and rear lot lines, and natural features.
SHOPPING CENTER. More than one (1) commercial establishment, planned,
developed, owned, and managed as a unit, with off-street parking provided on
the property.
SHORT TERM RENTAL. The rental of a residential dwelling or a portion of a
dwelling for lodging for compensation (including but not limited to financial
and monetary exchanges, barter, borrow, care or similar compensation) for a
term of less than 30 days at least three (3) times per year.
SIDEWALK CAF. A designated outdoor space operated by a street-level restaurant
establishment, which is located on or adjacent to the site of such
establishment and which is used exclusively for dining and drinking.
SIGN. A device which is affixed to, or otherwise located or set upon a
building, structure or parcel of land which directs attention to an activity,
or business. The definition includes interior signs which are directed at
persons outside the premises of the sign owners and exterior signs, but not
signs primarily directed at persons within the premises of the sign owner. The
definition does not include goods for sale displayed in a business window. The
following additional definitions are provided.
   1.    Accessory sign: A sign which is incidental and subordinate to the
principal identification of a business, commodity, profession, activity,
attraction, or service.
   2.   Awning: A structure made of cloth, canvas, metal, plastic, or other
material that serves as a shelter, decoration, or advertisement as over a
storefront, window, door or deck which projects beyond the face of the
building. An awning by itself is not a sign. An awning with lettering, a logo
or some form of advertising display is considered to be a sign.
   3.   Banner: A sign intended to be hung either with or without a frame,
possessing characters, lettering or ornamentations applied to paper, plastic or
fabric of any kind including flags, streamers, emblems, and insignias which are
displayed for non- commercial purposes.
   4.   Bulletin Board: A sign containing a surface upon which is displayed the
name of a religious institution, school, library, community center or similar
institutional or community service use, and the announcement of its services or
activities.
   5.   Canopy: A structure other than an awning made of cloth, plastic, metal,
or material framing affixed to a building and carried by a frame which is
supported by the ground.
   6.   Canopy Sign: A sign displayed and affixed flat on the surface of a
canopy and which does not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits
off the canopy.
   7.   Changeable Copy Signs: A sign on which the copy or symbols change
either automatically through electronic means or manually through placement of
letters or symbols on a panel mounted on a track system.
   8.   Digital displays: The portion of a sign message made up of internally
illuminated components capable of changing the message periodically. Digital
displays include, for example, LCD, LED, and plasma displays.
   9.   Display Surface Area: The net geometric area enclosed by the display
surface of the sign, including the outer extremities of all letters and
characters: provided, however, ‘display surface area’ shall not include the
structural supports for free standing signs: Only one face of a double-faced
sign shall be considered in determining the display surface area.
   10.    External Illumination: Illumination of a sign which is affected by an
artificial source of light which is not contained within the sign itself.
   11.    Feather Flag Sign: A sign with or without characters, letters,
illustrations, or ornamentations applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic, or
fabric of any kind with only such material for backing. Feather flag signs are
generally a single sign attached to a support post and typically having a
dimensional ratio of at least 4 high to 1 wide. Such signs are also known as
tear drop flags, wind feather flags, flutter signs, or bow flags.
   12.    Flashing Signs: A sign whose artificial illumination is not kept
constant in intensity at all times when in use and which exhibits changes in
light, color, direction, or animation.
   13.    Free Standing/Ground Sign: A sign which is not attached to any part
of a building or structure. The supported structure of the sign shall be set
firmly in or below the ground surface and shall not be attached to any other
structure. A pole sign is a ground sign. A billboard is not considered a ground
sign.
   14.    Illuminated Sign: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures,
designs, or outlines illuminated by an electric light or luminous tubes as part
of the sign proper. An LED or digital sign is a type of illuminated sign.
   15.    Interactive Signs: An electronic or animated sign that reacts to the
behavior or electronic signals of automobiles.
   16.    Marquee: A sign on a marquee which is a roof-like structure, often
meant to bear a signboard, projecting over an entrance, such as to a theater.
   17.    Mechanical Movement signs: A sign having parts that physically move
rather than merely appear to move (as might be found in a digital display).
   18.    Murals: A large picture or artwork painted on or affixed on a wall.
   19.    Nameplate Sign: An accessory sign stating a name, a street or street
number, a person, a firm, a building, or institution of a certain permitted
use.
   20.    Non-accessory Sign (Off-premises sign, billboard): A sign which
advertises goods, services, facilities, events, or attractions not on the
premises where located and does not pertain to the principal use of the
premises.
   21.    Non-Conforming Sign: A sign existing at the effective date of the
adoption of this section which could not be built under the terms of this
chapter. A sign which does not adhere to one (1) or more of the provisions in
this ordinance.
   22.    Permanent Sign: Any sign which is not portable or temporary and is
affixed to a building, a structure or anchored in the ground.
   23.    Portable Sign: Any sign that is designed to be transported,
including, but not limited to signs:
      a.   With wheels removed.
      b.   With chassis or support constructed without wheels.
      c.   Designed to be transported by trailer or on wheels.
      d.   Mounted on a vehicle for advertising purposes, parked and visible
from the public right-of-way, except signs identifying the related businesses
when the vehicle is being used in the normal day to day operations of that
business.
      e.   Attached temporarily to ‘A’ or ‘T’ frames.
   f.   Attached temporarily to the ground, a structure, or another sign.
      g.   Search light stands, and
      h.   Inflatable balloons, characters or umbrellas used for advertising.
   24.    Projecting Sign: Any sign affixed to a building or structure at an
angle or perpendicular to the wall it is attached to. A projecting sign may
also be a sign that is affixed to a wall and projects past the building’s
exterior wall or roofline.
   25.    Real Estate Sign: A temporary sign placed upon property for the
purpose of advertising to the public the sale or lease of said property.
   26.    Roof Sign: Any sign wholly erected to, constructed/or maintained on
the roof structure of any building.
   27.    Sandwich Board Sign: A temporary sign designed in an A-frame fashion,
having back-to-back sign faces to identify businesses, and not permanently
attached to the ground, building or other structure.
   28.    Sign Surface: That part of the sign upon, against, or through which
the message is displayed or illustrated.
   29.    Temporary Sign: A non-permanent sign erected, affixed, or maintained
on a premises for a short, usually fixed period of time.
   30.    Wall Sign: A sign which is affixed parallel to the wall or printed on
the wall of any building. For the purposes of this section any sign which is
affixed to the sloping surface of a mansard roof, an awning and signs affixed
to a building face marquee, or a canopy shall be considered a wall sign.
Further, portions of murals shall be considered wall signs if they include
specific services, goods or products, or a representation of the types of
services, goods or products provided. No portion of the mural may include
advertisement of services, goods or products that are off - premises.
   31.    Window Sign: A sign installed inside a window and intended to be
viewed from the outside.
SITE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium development containing residential, commercial,
office, industrial, or other structures or improvements for uses permitted in
the zoning district in which located, in which each co-owner owns exclusive
rights to a volume of space within which a structure or structures may be
constructed, herein defined as a condominium unit, as described in the master
deed. The following additional definitions are provided:
   1.   Condominium Act: Act 59, Public Acts of 1978, as amended.
   2.   Condominium Documents: The master deed, recorded pursuant to the
Condominium Act, and any other instrument referred to in the master deed or
bylaws which affect the rights and obligations of a co-owner in the
condominium.
   3.   Condominium Lot: The condominium unit and the contiguous limited common
element surrounding the condominium unit, which shall be the counterpart of
"lot" as used in connection with a project developed under the Subdivision
Control Act, Act 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended.
   4.   Condominium Unit: The portion of a condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   5.   General Common Elements: The common elements other than the limited
common elements.
   6.   Limited Common Elements: A portion of the common elements reserved in
the master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
   7.   Master Deed: The condominium document recording the condominium project
to which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the bylaws for
the project and the condominium subdivision plan for the project, and all other
information required by Section 8 of the Condominium Act.
SPECIAL LAND USE. A use which typically exhibits certain characteristics
related to its operation or installation, such as noise, traffic, odor, hours
of operation, etc., which may not in all circumstances be compatible with other
uses in the zoning district in which it is permitted and, as a result, is
subject to a special review process and requirements or conditions not
applicable to other uses in the same zoning district.
STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the
space between the floor and the ceiling above it.
STORY, ONE-HALF. A story under the gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than two (2)
feet above the floor of such story and the floor area shall not exceed two-
thirds (2/3) of the area of the floor below.
STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
STREET LINE. The dividing line between the street right-of-way and the lot.
When such right- of-way is not definable, a line shall be defined as thirty-
three (33) feet on either side of the center of the street.
STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected above ground level, or which is
attached to something located on the ground. Structures typically include such
things as buildings, amateur radio towers, sheds, and decks.
USACE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
VETERINARY OFFICE OR HOSPITAL. An institution which is licensed by the
Michigan. Department of Health to provide for the care, diagnosis, and
treatment of sick or injured animals, including those in need of medical or
surgical attention. A veterinary office or hospital may include customary pens
or cages for the overnight boarding of animals and such related facilities as
laboratories, testing services, and offices.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. Transmitters, antenna structures, towers,
and other types of equipment necessary for providing wireless communication
services and all commercial mobile services, including all those that are
available to the public (for-profit or not-for-profit) which give subscribers
the ability to access or receive calls from the public switched telephone
network. Not included within this definition are: citizen band radio
facilities; short wave facilities; ham amateur radio facilities; satellite
dishes; and governmental facilities which may be subject to state or federal
law or regulations which preempt municipal regulatory authority. For purposes
of this Ordinance, the following additional terms are defined:
   1.   Equipment Compound. An area surrounding or adjacent to the base of a
wireless communications support structure and within which wireless
communications equipment is located.
   2.   Wireless Communications Equipment (WCE). The set of equipment and
network components used in the provision of wireless communications services,
including, but not limited to, antennas, transmitters, receivers, base
stations, equipment shelters, cabinets, emergency generators, power supply
cables, and coaxial and fiber optic cables, but excluding wireless
communications support structures.
   3.   Wireless Communication Support Structures (WCSS). A structure that is
designed to support, or is capable of supporting, wireless communications
equipment, including a monopole, self-supporting lattice tower, guyed tower,
water tower, utility pole, or building.
   4.   Collocation. To place or install wireless communications equipment on
an existing wireless communications support structure or in an existing
wireless communication equipment compound. Collocate has a corresponding
meaning.
YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the principal building and the
front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point
to the front lot line. In all cases, the front lot line shall be considered to
be that portion of the lot which abuts a public road right-of- way, private
road easement or shoreline (see Figure 4).
YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the
nearest point of the principal building (see Figure 4)
YARD, SIDE. A yard between any building and the side lot line, extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line to the
nearest point of principal building (see Figure 4).
FIGURE 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
 
***** ARTICLE 3: ADMINISTRATION & ENFORCEMENT *****
Sec. 3.1 ZONING ADMINISTRATION
The Zoning Administrator, or his/her designees, shall be appointed by the
village council and designated to administer and enforce the provisions of this
Ordinance.
Sec. 3.2 DUTIES
The Zoning Administrator Shall:
3.2.1. Receive and review for completeness all applications for site plan
review and special land use permits which the Planning Commission is required
to decide under this ordinance and refer such applications to the Planning
Commission for determination.
3.2.2. Receive and review for completeness all applications for appeals,
variances, or other matters which the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to
decide under this Ordinance and refer such applications to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for determination.
3.2.3. Receive and review for completeness all applications for amendments to
this Ordinance and refer such applications to the Planning Commission and
Village Council for determination.
3.2.4. Review applications and site plans, make site inspection, and issue land
use permits for residential (R-1 AND MHP) and commercial (C-MU, G-MU, GC, AND
CBD) districts. Commercial Applications are limited to signs, parking, fences,
accessory buildings, new business registration, demolition, additions/
alterations/remodeling of less than 25% of the existing principal building, and
other limited uses as authorized by this ordinance.
3.2.5. Make periodic site inspections of the Village to determine Ordinance
compliance, and answer complaints on Zoning Ordinance violations.
3.2.6.Order the discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings, or
structures; order the removal of illegal buildings or structures; order the
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; revoke land use permits where
violations have been determined to occur; and/or take any other action
authorized by this Ordinance to ensure compliance with or prevent violations of
its provisions.
3.2.7.Implement the decisions of the Planning Commission and Village Council.
Sec. 3.3 SPECIAL LAND USES
3.3.1. Application
Applications for special land use permits authorized in this Ordinance shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator on a form provided by the Village. In
addition to a complete application form, the applicant is required to submit a
preliminary site plan prepared in accordance with Section
3.4 Site Plan Review.
3.3.2. Procedures
   1.   Special land use permits may be granted by the Planning Commission at
its discretion.
   2.    The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed application and
preliminary site plan to determine if all required information has been
supplied, and forward the completed application, preliminary site plan, and
supporting data to the Planning Commission for a recommendation.
   3.   Upon receipt of a completed application for special land use, a public
hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission with advance notice provided
in accordance with the requirements of Section 103 of the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended.
   4.   After the public hearing, the Planning Commission may deny, approve, or
approve with conditions a request for a special land use. The decision of the
Planning Commission shall be incorporated in a statement of conclusions
relative to the special land use under consideration. Any decision which denies
a request or imposes conditions upon its approval shall specify the basis for
the denial or the conditions imposed.
   5.   The Planning Commission may impose such additional conditions and
safeguards deemed necessary for the general welfare, for the protection of
individual property rights, and for insuring that the purposes of this
Ordinance and the general spirit and purpose of the district in which the
special land use is proposed will be observed.
3.3.3. Basis of Determinations
The Planning Commission shall review the proposed special land use in terms of
the standards states within this Ordinance and shall establish that such use
and the proposed location:
   1.   Will be harmonious and in accordance with the general objectives or any
specific objectives of the Master Plan.
   2.   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and will not change the essential character
of the area.
   3.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing uses or uses reasonably
anticipated in the future.
   4.   Will be an improvement in relation to property in the immediate
vicinity and to the Village as a whole.
   5.   Will be served adequately by essential public services and facilities
or that the persons responsible for the establishment of the proposed use will
provide adequately any such service or facility.
   6.   Will not create excessive additional public costs and will not be
detrimental to the economic welfare of the Village.
   7.   Will be consistent with the intent and purposes of this Ordinance in
general, and Section
3.4.4, (3), Standards for Review of site plans in particular.
3.3.4. Duration, Voiding, and Extensions of Permit
Unless otherwise specified by the Planning Commission, any special land use
permit (SLU) granted under this section shall be null and void unless the
development proposed shall have its first building permit issued within one (1)
year from the date of the granting of the permit. The Zoning Administrator
shall give notice by certified mail to the holder of a permit two (2) months
before voidance is actually declared. Said notice shall be mailed to the permit
holder at the address indicated on said permit. A six (6) month extension may
be approved by the Village Zoning Administrator if a written request is
submitted no less than one (1) month prior to the one-year expiration date. The
applicant must describe in detail the reasoning for the delay. Only one (1)
extension will be granted for good cause for a period no to exceed one (1)
year. Good Cause shall be defined as: The loss of the primary contractor,
severe weather- related delays, loss of financial backing and/or debilitating
illness or death of the primary landowner to his/her immediate family.
The Zoning Administrator may suspend or revoke a SLU permit issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance whenever the permit is issued erroneously on the
basis of incorrect information supplied by the applicant or his agent and is in
violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance or of any other ordinances
or regulations of the Village.
3.3.5. Reapplication
No application for a special land use permit, which has been denied wholly or
in part, shall be resubmitted until the expiration of one (1) year or more from
the date of such denial, except on grounds of newly discovered evidence or
change of conditions found to be sufficient to justify reconsideration by the
Planning Commission.
Sec. 3.4 SITE PLAN REVIEW
The Planning Commission shall have the authority to review and to approve or
reject all site plans (i.e. preliminary, final, and combined site plans). Prior
to the issuance of land use permits, building permits or commencement of
construction, a site plan review and approval is required in accordance with
the procedures contained in this section.
3.4.1. Where required.
   1.   Site plan review is required for all new construction of any
nonresidential building or structure on any parcel and for any new residential
development (single-family, two- family or multiple-family). All such
construction or developments shall be consistent with the purpose of this
Ordinance as presented in Section
1.2 of this Ordinance.
   2.   Site plan review is required for all proposed uses and certain existing
uses within the Village where an alteration, addition, expansion, change, or
conversion constitutes an increase or reduction to the existing structure or
use of more than five hundred (500) square feet or ten (10%) percent, whichever
is less; or would require a variance from the provisions of this Ordinance,
regardless of its size, or if there is a change of use from the existing use.
Site plan review shall also be required prior to the paving of any off-street
parking for any use for which off-street parking is required by this Ordinance,
or for the construction of new parking lots or driveways.
   3.   A full site plan reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission shall
not be required for individual single-family dwellings, additions to single-
family dwellings, decks, porches, or residential accessory storage, garages or
murals. However, a plot plan shall accompany a land use permit application to
be reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator to ensure such
improvements meet all of the requirements of this ordinance.
   4.   Design Review for Cottage Lots. In the case of additions to or new
construction of a single-family residential dwelling, garage, accessory
buildings, decks, or porches on a cottage lot as defined and deemed a legal lot
of record, a design review shall be completed by the Zoning Administrator and
the Planning Commission in accordance with the following procedures:
      a.   Applicant shall provide a residential site plan for design review
that includes, but may not be limited to:
         i.   A current Boundary Survey depicting lot lines, easements and
required setbacks.
         ii.   A site map that depicts footprint and dimensions of proposed
dwelling, proposed setbacks, lot coverage/floor area ratio, location, dimension
and construction material of sidewalks, driveway/parking, accessory buildings,
water and sewer lines, fences, or other screening materials (proposed and
existing) and location and setbacks of adjacent buildings.
         iii.   Architectural renderings and building plans for residential
dwelling and accessory building that indicate square footage, structural
dimensions (including roof heights, access points, steps, porches, chimney,
overhangs, or similar features), exterior materials and related amenities.
         iv.    Landscaping or other elements, unique topography, or natural
features for consideration.
      b.   The Zoning Administrator shall conduct a design review of the
residential site plan proposal and upon receipt of a proposal which is complete
shall forward same to the Planning Commission for design review and
consideration for approval at the next scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
Time for public comment will be scheduled at the Planning Commission’s
scheduled meeting. Public notification will be made through the Planning
Commission Agenda and posted at the Village Hall and other normal posting
locations. Both in person and written public comments will be permitted at the
Planning Commission meeting.
      c.   Basis of Determination. The Zoning Administrator and Planning
Commission shall review the design and site plan and consider the following
criteria:
         i.   The site is properly zoned and its development as a residential
dwelling will not create a hazardous condition or detriment to the general
health and safety of the surrounding properties.
         ii.   The proposed structure’s form, placement on the lot, overall
size and floor area ratio, dimensions, setbacks, architectural design, and
exterior building materials are similar, compatible and complimentary in style
with the majority of existing residential dwellings within a 300-foot radius of
the site.
         iii.   The site will be supported by infrastructure, including but not
limited to municipal water, sewer, drainage, and easements (both private and
public) in accordance with local, state, and federal codes and ordinances.
      d.   Zoning ordinance requirements regarding access, parking, setbacks,
fire codes, line of sight, landscaping and related ordinances are met so as not
to unfairly impose upon implied property rights, existing privacy, and safe
access of neighboring properties.
      e.   The Planning Commission after conducting the design review may deny,
approve, or approve with modifications the design review and issue such
decision in writing to the applicant.
   5.   The Village shall not issue a land use permit until a final site plan
has been approved and is in effect. A use, not involving a building or
structure, shall not be commenced, or expanded, nor shall the Zoning
Administrator or their designee issue a land use permit for such use until a
final site plan has been approved and is in effect.
   6.   No grading, removal of trees or other vegetation, land filling or
construction of improvements shall commence for any development which requires
site plan approval until a final site plan is approved and is in effect, except
as otherwise provided in this Article.
   7.   In Commercial, Industrial and Multi-family developments a landscape
plan is required. The plan shall accompany both the preliminary and the final
site plan and be approved.
3.4.2. Administrative Review
   1.    Intent. The intent of this section is to permit the submittal of a
sketch plan for administrative review in certain specific instances where a
complete site plan is not considered essential to ensure compliance with the
intent and standards of this ordinance. The intent is to also provide for an
administrative review by the Zoning Administrator of Planning Commission
approved site plans for compliance with conditions as imposed by the Planning
Commission.
   2.   Applicability. In lieu of a complete site plan prepared in accordance
with Sections
3.4.3 and
3.4.4, a sketch plan may be submitted for the uses or activities identified
below.
      a.   Accessory uses incidental to a conforming existing use where said
use does not require any variance or further site modifications.
      b.   Expansion and/or addition of one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet or less to an existing conforming structure or use.
      c.   Alterations to off-street parking layout or installation of pavement
or curbing improvements provided the total number of spaces does not change the
number of parking spaces by more than 5% or to meet various federal, state, or
ADA requirements.
      d.   Improvements or installation of walls, fences, lighting, or trash
containers/ enclosures.
      e.   Change of use limited to a use not exceeding one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet.
   3.   Procedure .
      a.   The procedure for administrative approval of a sketch plan shall
involve the submittal of a sketch plan meeting the requirements of subsection
4, below. Additionally, the required application form and fee shall be
submitted. The Zoning Administrator shall review the sketch plan in accordance
with the standards of Section
3.4.4, (3). The Zoning Administrator shall make a report of administrative
reviews to the Planning Commission.
      b.   The Zoning Administrator retains the option to require additional
information or a complete site plan for review by the Planning Commission,
particularly for sites which do not comply with previously approved site plans,
sites with parking deficiencies, sites abutting residential districts or sites
experiencing problems with drainage, traffic, noise, aesthetics or other
general health and safety issues. If a complete site plan is required, the
Zoning Administrator shall inform the applicant to submit a set of plans in
accordance with this Section within 14 days of receipt of the application. The
Zoning Administrator shall also have authority to refer any site plan eligible
for administrative review to any consultants employed by the Village for the
purposes of site plan review.
   4.    Information Required. The following information shall be required to
be provided on a sketch plan for administrative review:
      a.   Proprietors’, applicants’, and owners’ names, addressed and
telephone numbers.
      b.   Location map with north point indicated.
      c.   Details of the proposed changes to the use or structure in question.
      d.   Locations of existing landscaping, lighting, parking, refuse
collection, and other information pertinent to the project or necessary to
determine compliance with Ordinance requirements.
      e.   Gross acreage and building figures.
      f.   Zoning classification of petitioners’ parcel and all abutting
parcels.
3.4.3. Preliminary Site Plan
   1.   Application. Any applicant may submit a request for preliminary site
plan review by filing with the Zoning Administrator completed forms, payment of
the review fee, and ten (10) copies of the preliminary site plan drawing(s).
The Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall transmit only
complete submittals of the preliminary site plan drawings to the Planning
Commission prior to its next regular meeting. The purpose of such preliminary
review is to confirm general compliance with Village standards as well as to
suggest changes, if necessary, for final site plan approval Preliminary and/or
final site plan review materials shall also be provided to the DPW, Police and
Fire departments for their comment. All comments shall become a part of the
site plan review documents and be contained in material packets provided to the
Planning Commission prior to the site plan review.
   2.   Information Required. Each preliminary site plan submitted for review
shall provide the following information:
      a.   property owners and applicant’s name and address;
      b.   scale, north arrow, and date of plan;
      c.   location, description, dimensions, and area of the site; zoning
classification; and demonstration of compliance with lot area, width, coverage
and setback requirements.
      d.   general topography and soils information and existing natural and
man-made features to be retained or removed;
      e.   location and dimensions of proposed buildings/structures; including
floor area, number of floors, height, number and type of dwelling units (where
applicable);
      f.   proposed streets/drives; including general alignment, right of way,
surface type, and width to be consistent with adjacent streets and drives and
the expansion of advancement of the purpose of the traditional town plan;
      g.   proposed parking; including location and dimensions of spaces and
aisles, and surface type;
      h.   adjacent land uses, property owners, and zoning and location of
adjacent buildings and drives/streets;
      i.   proposed phasing;
      j.   location and width of any easements on the site.
   3.   Planning Commission Action. The Planning Commission may approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the preliminary site plan within sixty (60)
days from the date of the Planning Commission meeting at which the site plan is
first heard. The Planning Commission shall set forth the reason for its action
in the record of the meeting at which action is taken. The time limit may be
extended upon a written request by the applicant and approval by the Planning
Commission.
   4.   Effect of Approval. Approval of a preliminary site plan by the Planning
Commission shall indicate its general acceptance of the proposed layout of
buildings, streets and drives, parking areas, other facilities, and overall
character of the proposed development. The Planning Commission may, at its
discretion, and with appropriate conditions attached, authorize issuance of
grading and foundation permits on the basis of the approved preliminary site
plan. The authorization, however, will be used only in those situations in
which seasonable conditions, such as the onset of frost, or other severe time
limitations might, in the Planning Commission’s opinion, unduly delay the
commencement of construction until after the final site plan is approved. The
Planning Commission shall attach appropriate conditions to such authorization.
   5.   Expiration of Approval. Approval of a preliminary site plan shall be
valid for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of approval
and shall expire and be of no effect unless an application for a final site
plan is filed with the Zoning Administrator within that time period. The Zoning
Administrator or duly appointed agent shall, within ten (10) days of the date
of approval of the preliminary site plan by the Planning Commission, transmit a
written certification of such approval to the applicant.
3.4.4. Final Site Plan.
   1.   Application. The applicant shall submit to the Zoning Administrator ten
(10) copies of a final site plan as well as other data and exhibits hereinafter
required, the review fee, and a completed application form. The Administrator,
upon receipt of the application, shall transmit only complete submittals of the
final site plan drawing(s) to the Planning Commission prior to its next regular
meeting.
   2.   Information Required. A Final Site Plan submitted for review and
approval shall contain all of the following data presented in a clear and
legible format. Site Plans shall consist of an overall plan for the entire
development. Sheet size shall be at least 24" x 36" with plan view drawn to a
scale of no greater than 1" = 50’ for property less than three acres or no
greater than 1" = 100’ for property three or more acres.
General Information
      a.   Proprietors’, applicants’, and owners’ names, addresses and
telephone numbers.
      b.   Date of preparation, including revisions.
      c.   Scale .
      d.   Northpoint .
      e.   Location map drawn at a scale of 1" = 2,000’ with north point
indicated.
      f.   Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, Landscape Architect, or Planner’s
seal.
      g.   Existing and proposed lot lines, building lines, structures, parking
areas, etc., on the parcel and within one hundred (100) feet of the site.
      h.   Centerline and existing and proposed right-of-way lines of any
street.
      i.   Zoning classification of petitioner’s parcel and all abutting
parcels.
      j.   Gross acreage figure.
Physical Features
      a.   Acceleration, deceleration and passing lanes and approaches.
      b.   Proposed locations of access drives, street intersections, driveway
locations, sidewalks, and curbing.
      c.   Location of existing and proposed service facilities above and below
ground, including:
         i.   Chemical and fuel storage tanks and containers.
         ii.    Water supply facilities.
         iii .   Sanitary sewage disposal facilities.
         iv.   Storm water control facilities and structures.
         v.   Location of all easements.
      d.   Location of all structures with setback and yard dimensions.
      e.   Dimensioned parking spaces and calculation, drives and method of
surfacing.
      f.   Exterior lighting locations and illumination patterns.
      g.   Location and description of all existing and proposed landscaping,
berms, fencing and walls.
      h.   Trash receptacle pad location and method of screening.
      i.   Transformer pad location and method of screening.
      j.   Dedicated road or service drive locations.
      k.   Entrance details including sign locations and size.
      l.   Designation of fire lanes.
      m.   Any other pertinent physical features.
Natural Features
      a.   Soil characteristics of the parcel to at least the detail provided
by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service, Soil Survey of Sanilac County, Michigan.
      b.   Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of two (2) feet.
Topography on the site and beyond the site for a distance of one hundred (100)
feet in all directions should be indicated. Grading plan, showing finished
contours at a maximum interval of two (2) feet, correlated with existing
contours so as to clearly indicate required cutting, filling, and grading.
      c.   Location of existing drainage courses and associated bodies of
water, on and off site, and their elevations.
      d.   Location of existing wetlands.
      e.   Location of natural resource features, including woodlands and areas
with slopes greater than ten (10%) percent (one (1) foot of vertical elevation
for every ten (10) feet of horizontal distance).
Additional Requirements for Residential Developments
      a.   Density calculations by type of unit by bedroom counts.
      b.   Designation of units by type and number of units in each building.
      c.   Carport or garage locations and details where proposed.
      d.   Specific amount and location of recreation spaces.
Additional Requirements for Commercial and Industrial Developments
      a.   Loading/unloading areas.
      b.   Total and useable floor area.
      c.   Number of employees in peak usage.
   3.   Standards for Review. In reviewing the final site plan, the Planning
Commission shall determine whether the plan meets the following specifications
and standards:
      a.   The plan conforms to the approved preliminary site plan and with all
Zoning Ordinance regulations.
      b.    All required information is provided;
      c.   The proposed use will not be injurious to the surrounding
neighborhood and protects the general health, safety, welfare, and character of
the Village.
      d.   There is a proper relationship between major thoroughfares and
proposed service drives, driveways, and parking areas. Proper access to all
portions of the site and all sides of any structure is provided. All structures
or groups of structures shall be so arranged as to permit emergency vehicle
access by some practical means to all sides of the buildings.
      e.   The location of buildings is such that the adverse effects of such
uses will be minimized for the occupants of that use and surrounding areas.
      f.   Natural resources will be preserved to the maximum extent possible
in the site design by developing in a manner which will not detrimentally
affect or destroy natural features such as lakes, ponds, streams, wetlands,
steep slopes, soils, groundwater, and woodlands.
      g.   Storm water management systems and facilities will preserve the
natural drainage characteristics and enhance the aesthetics of the site to the
maximum extent possible and will not substantially reduce or increase the
natural retention or storage capacity of any wetland, water body or water
course, or cause alterations which could increase flooding or water pollution
on or off site.
      h.   Wastewater treatment systems, including on-site septic systems, will
be located to minimize any potential degradation of surface water or
groundwater quality and meet County and State standards.
      i.   Sites which include storage of hazardous materials or waste, fuels,
salt, or chemicals will be designed to prevent spills and discharges of
polluting materials to the surface of the ground, groundwater, or nearby water
bodies in accordance with County and State standards.
      j.   Landscaping, including grass, trees, shrubs, and other vegetation is
provided to maintain and improve the aesthetic quality of the site and area.
      k.   The proposed use is in compliance with all Village Ordinances and
any other applicable laws.
   4.   Planning Commission Action. The Planning Commission may approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the final site plan within sixty (60) days of
the date of the Planning Commission meeting at which the site plan is first
heard. The time limit may be extended upon a written request by the applicant
and approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may suggest
and/or require modifications in the proposed final site plan as are needed to
gain approval.
   5.   Effect of Approval. Approval of a final site plan authorizes issuance
of a land use permit.
   6.   Expiration of Approval. Approval shall expire and be of no effect
unless a land use permit shall have been taken out within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the date of approval of the final site plan. Also, approval of a
final site plan shall expire and be of no effect one year following the date of
approval unless construction has begun on the property in conformance with the
approved final site plan.
3.4.5 Combining Preliminary and Final Site Plans.
An applicant may, at his discretion and risk, combine a preliminary and final
site plan in application for approval. In such a situation the portion of the
review process concerning preliminary site plan application and review shall
not apply. However, the Planning Commission shall have the authority to require
submittal of a preliminary site plan separate from a final site plan, where, in
its opinion, the complexity and/or scale of the site for the proposed
development so warrants. A preliminary and final site plan shall not be
combined for: any development consisting of two (2) or more phases; projects
requiring special land use approval; and site condominiums.
3.4.6 Amendment of Approved Site Plan.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to determine if a proposed
change requires an amendment to an approved final site plan or is of a minor
nature and can be allowed and not materially alter the circumstances for which
the site plan was given. A site plan may be amended upon application and in
accordance with the procedure herein for a final site plan. A minor change
would be other than those explicitly mentioned as follows.
Major changes defined as:
   1.   An addition of property to the area already approved.
   2.   The establishment of any additional use(s)
   3.   The addition of more interior floor areas, dwellings, or an outdoor
display area.
   4.   An expansion or increase if the intensity of the use(s).
Any changes not listed in a-d shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for
compliance with this Ordinance. If approved, the Zoning Administrator shall
make a record of such approval and place a copy in the property file.
3.4.7 Modification of Plan During Construction.
All improvements shall conform to the final site plan. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to notify the Zoning Administrator of any such
changes prior to such change being made. Any changes which result in a material
alteration of the site plan approved by the Planning Commission shall require
resubmittal to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator may require the applicant to correct the changes so as to conform
to the approved final site plan.
3.4.8 Phasing of Development.
The applicant may, at his discretion, divide the proposed development into two
(2) or more phases. In such case, the preliminary site plan shall cover the
entire property involved and shall clearly indicate the location, the size, and
character of each phase. A final site plan may be submitted for review and
approval for each phase.
3.4.9 Inspection.
The Zoning Administrator or designee shall be responsible for inspecting all
improvements for conformance with the approved final site plan, prior to
issuing a certificate of occupancy. All sub-grade improvements such as
utilities, sub-base installations for drives and parking lots, and similar
improvements shall be inspected and approved prior to covering. The applicant
shall be responsible for requesting the necessary inspection.
3.4.10 Violations.
The approved final site plan shall regulate development of the property and any
violation of this Article, including any improvement not in conformance of the
approved final site plan, shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance subject
to penalties in accordance with Section
3.9.
Sec. 3.5 SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECT REGULATIONS
3.5.1 Intent.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by Section 141 of the Condominium Act,
preliminary and final site plans shall be regulated by the provisions of this
Ordinance and subject to the review by the Planning Commission and approval of
the Village Council.
3.5.2 General Requirements.
   1.   Each condominium lot shall be located within a zoning district that
permits the proposed use.
   2.   Each condominium lot shall front on and have direct access to a street
approved by the Village.
   3.   For the purposes of this ordinance, each condominium lot shall be
considered equivalent to a single lot and shall comply with all regulations of
the zoning district in which located, and the provisions of any other statutes,
laws, ordinances, and/or regulations applicable to lots in subdivisions.
   4.   In the case of a site condominium containing single-family detached
dwelling units, not more than one (1) dwelling unit shall be located on a
condominium lot, nor shall a dwelling unit be located on a condominium lot with
any other principal structure or use except in a PUD district. Required yards
shall be measured from the boundaries of a condominium lot.
3.5.3 Site Plan Approval Requirements.
Preliminary approval of the site plan and final approval of the site plan and
condominium documents including Master Deed and Bylaws by the Planning
Commission and Village Council shall be required as a condition to the right to
construct, expand or convert a site condominium project. No permits for erosion
control, building construction, grading, or installation of public water or
sanitary sewerage facilities shall be issued for property in a site condominium
development until a final site plan has been approved by the Village Planning
Commission and Village Council and is in effect. Preliminary and final approval
shall not be combined.
   1.    Preliminary Approval.
      a.   A preliminary site plan pursuant to the standards and procedures set
forth in Section
3.4 of this Ordinance shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
preliminary review.
      b.   If the site plan conforms in all respects to applicable laws,
ordinances and design standards, preliminary approval shall be granted by the
Planning Commission.
      c.   If the site plan fails to conform, the Planning Commission shall
either deny the application, or grant preliminary approval with conditions,
provided such conditions are met before final approval.
   2.    Final Approval.
      a.   Following preliminary approval, the applicant shall submit a final
site plan, Master Deed, and Bylaws pursuant to the standards and procedures set
forth in Section
3.4.4 of this Ordinance. In addition to the final site plan, the Condominium
Documents shall be submitted to the Village for the review by the Village
Attorney and other appropriate staff and consultants. The Condominium Documents
shall be reviewed with respect to all matters subject to regulation by the
Village including, without limitation: ongoing preservation and maintenance of
drainage, retention, wetland, and other natural and/or common area; and
maintenance of storm water, sanitary, and water facilities and utilities.
      b.   The applicant shall also submit engineering plans in sufficient
detail for the Village, to determine compliance with applicable laws,
ordinances, and design standards for construction of the project.
      c.   Upon completion of the review of the Condominium Documents and
engineering plans and receipt of the recommendations and findings from the
Village Attorney, Engineer and Planner, the site plan shall be submitted to the
Village Council for final review.
      d.   If the site plan, Condominium Documents and/or engineering plans
conform in all respects to applicable laws, ordinances and design standards,
final approval shall be granted by the Village Council.
      e.   If the site plan, Condominium Documents and/or engineering plans
fail to conform, final approval shall be denied by the Village Council.
      f.   In the interest of insuring compliance with this Ordinance and
protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Village, the
Village Council, as a condition of final approval of the site plan, shall
require the applicant to deposit a performance guarantee as set forth in
Section
3.7 of the Zoning Ordinance for the completion of improvements associated with
the proposed use.
3.5.4 Required Improvements:
   1.   All design standards and required improvements that apply to a
subdivision, under the Subdivision Regulations adopted by the Village Council,
shall apply to any condominium development.
   2.   Each condominium unit shall be connected to the Village water, sanitary
and storm sewers. Utility standards stated in
Chapter 70 shall apply to all condominium units. Furthermore, the utility
provisions stated in
Chapter 10, Subdivision Regulations shall apply to all condominium units
proposed for location on property which is not subdivided and recorded, or
property which is to be further subdivided. Each individual condominium unit
shall be considered a residential equivalent unit as defined in
Chapter 10.
   3.   Monuments shall be set at all boundary corners and deflection points
and at all road right of way intersection corners and deflection points. Lot
irons shall be set at all condominium lot corners and deflection points of
condominium lot lines.
   4.   The Village may grant a delay in the setting of required monuments or
irons for a reasonable time, but not to exceed one (1) year, on condition that
the developer deposit with the Village Clerk cash, a certified check, or an
irrevocable bank letter of credit running to the Village, whichever the
developer selects, in an amount as determined from time to time by resolution
of the Village Council. Such deposit shall be returned to the developer upon
receipt of a certificate by a surveyor registered in the State of Michigan that
the monuments and irons have been set as required, within the time specified.
If the developer defaults, the Village Council shall promptly require a
registered surveyor to set the monuments and irons in the ground as shown on
the condominium site plans, at a cost not-to-exceed the amount of the security
deposit which shall include Village administrative costs.
   5.   Road rights-of-way shall be described separately from individual
condominium lots and shall be accurately delineated by bearings and distances
on the condominium subdivision plan and the final site plan. The right-of-way
shall be for roadway purposes and for the purposes of locating, installing,
maintaining, and replacing of public utilities. The developer shall declare
easements to the Village for all public water and sanitary sewer lines and
appurtenances.
   6.   All improvements in a site condominium shall comply with the design
specifications as adopted by the Village Council and any amendments thereto.
3.5.5 Information Required Prior to Occupancy.
Prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit for any condominium unit, the
applicant shall submit the following to the Zoning Administrator:
   1.   A copy of the recorded Condominium Documents (including exhibits,
Master Deed, and Bylaws).
   2.   A copy of any recorded restrictive covenants.
   3.   A copy of the site plan on laminated photo static copy or mylar sheet.
   4.   Evidence of completion of improvements associated with the proposed use
including two copies of an "as-built survey".
3.5.6 Revision of Site Condominium Plan.
If the site condominium subdivision plan is revised, the final site plan shall
be revised accordingly and submitted for review and approval or denial by the
Planning Commission before any land use permit may be issued, where such permit
is required.
3.5.7 Amendment of Condominium Documents.
Any amendment to a master deed or bylaws that affects the approved preliminary
or final site plan or any conditions of approval of a preliminary or final site
plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Village Attorney and Planning
Commission before any land use permit may be issued, where such permit is
required. The Planning Commission may require its review of an amended site
plan if, in its opinion, such changes in the master deed or bylaws require
corresponding changes in the site plan.
3.5.8 Relocation of Boundaries.
Relocation of boundaries between adjoining condominium units, if permitted in
the condominium documents, as provided in Section 48 of the Condominium Act,
shall comply with all regulations of the zoning district in which located and
shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator. These requirements shall be made
a part of the by-laws and recorded as part of the master deed.
3.5.9 Subdivision of Condominium Lot.
Each condominium lot that results from a subdivision of another condominium
lot, if such subdivision is permitted by the condominium documents, as provided
in Section 49 of the Condominium Act, shall comply with all regulations of the
zoning district in which located, and shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. These requirements shall be made a part of the condominium by-
laws and recorded as part of the master deed.
Sec. 3.6 USE OF CONSULTANTS
From time to time, the Village Council and/or Planning Commission may employ
planning, engineering, legal, traffic or other special consultants to assist in
the review of special land use permits, site plans, re-zonings or other matters
related to the planning and development of the Village. Prior to contracting
any professional for consultation, the applicant will be made aware of the
additional cost, in writing. All costs for the use of these professionals will
be bore by the applicant.
Sec. 3.7 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE
In the interest of insuring compliance with the Zoning Ordinance provisions,
protecting the natural resources and the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the Village and future users or inhabitants of an area for which a
site plan for a proposed use has been submitted, the Village Council upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission shall require the applicant to
deposit a performance guarantee as set forth herein. The purpose of the
performance guarantee is to ensure completion of improvements connected with
the proposed use as required by this Ordinance, including but not limited to,
streets, lighting, utilities, sidewalks, drainage, fences, screens, walls, and
landscaping.
3.7.1.Performance guarantee as used herein shall mean a cash deposit, certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit in the amount of 125% the estimated
cost of the improvements to be made as determined by the applicant and
acceptable by the Village. The Village shall be authorized to employ the
Village engineering consultant to review cost estimates and conduct periodic
inspection of the progress of improvements.
3.7.2.Where the Village Council requires a performance guarantee, said
performance guarantee shall be deposited with the Village prior to the issuance
of a land use permit for the development and use of the land. Upon the deposit
of the performance guarantee the Village shall issue the appropriate permits.
3.7.3. The approval shall also prescribe the period of time within which the
improvements for which the performance guarantee has been required are to be
completed. The period will begin from the date of the issuance of the land use
permit.
3.7.4. The Zoning Administrator, upon the written request of the applicant,
shall rebate portions of the performance guarantee upon determination that the
improvements for which the rebate has been requested have been satisfactorily
completed. The portion of the performance guarantee to be rebated shall be in
the same amount as stated in the itemized cost estimate for the applicable
improvement.
3.7.5. Upon the satisfactory completion, as determined by the Village, of the
improvement for which the performance guarantee was required, the Village shall
return to the applicant the performance guarantee deposited and any interest
earned thereon. However, the Village is not required to deposit the performance
guarantee in an interest-bearing account.
3.7.6. In the event the applicant defaults in making the improvements for which
the performance guarantee was required within the time period established by
the Village, the Village shall have the right to use the performance guarantee
deposited and any interest earned thereon to complete the improvements through
contract or otherwise, including specifically, the right to enter upon the
subject property to make the improvements. If the performance guarantee is not
sufficient to allow the Village to complete the improvements, the applicant
shall be required to pay the Village any of the additional costs of completing
the improvements. Should the Village use the performance guarantee, or a
portion thereof, to complete the required improvements, any amounts remaining
after said completion shall be applied first to the Village’s administrative
costs including, without limitation, attorney fees, planning consultant fees,
and engineering consultant fees in completing the improvement with any balance
remaining being refunded to the applicant.
If the applicant has been required to post a performance guarantee or bond with
another governmental agency other than the Village to ensure completion of an
improvement the applicant shall not be required to deposit with the Village a
performance guarantee for that specific improvement. At the time the
performance guarantee is deposited with the Village and prior to the issuance
of a land use permit, the applicant shall enter an agreement incorporating the
provisions hereof with the Village regarding the performance guarantee.
Sec. 3.8 FEES
The Village Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, escrow for
consultants, and expenses, and a collection procedure, for land use permits,
building permits, certificates of occupancy, appeals, and other matters
pertaining to this ordinance. The Village shall have the authority to include
fees for the use of engineering, planning, legal or other special consultants.
The schedule of fees shall be posted in the Village Offices and may be altered
or amended only by the Village Council. No permit, certificate, special land
use approval, or variance shall be issued unless or until such costs, charges,
fees, or expenses have been paid in full, nor shall any action be taken on
proceedings before the Board of Appeals, unless or until preliminary charges
and fees have been paid in full.
Sec. 3.9 VIOLATIONS & PENALTIES
Uses of land, buildings, or structures, including tents and mobile homes,
erected, altered, razed, or converted in violation of this Ordinance are hereby
declared to be nuisances per se. The court shall order such nuisance abated and
the owner and/or agent in charge of such dwelling, building, structure, tent,
mobile home, or land shall be adjudged guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall upon conviction
thereof be subject to a fine (as outlined in the "Village of Lexington Fee
Schedule'' adopted by the Lexington Village Council) and the costs of
prosecution thereof, by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days, or both. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist from the time of formal citation by the Village shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
Sec. 3.10 AMENDMENTS
3.10.1. Initiation of Amendment.
The Village Council may, from time to time, amend this Ordinance by changing or
supplementing the district map, the districts on said map or the boundaries of
such districts, district regulations or other provisions of this Ordinance. An
amendment may be initiated by the Village Council, by an interested person(s)
or their agent(s), or by the Planning Commission, and when requested by an
interested party shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by
resolution of the Village Council.
3.10.2. Amendment Review Procedure.
The amendment and application materials shall be prepared in accordance with
the provisions of this Section and shall be reviewed in accordance with the
following procedure.
Amendments or application materials that do not meet the stipulated
requirements shall be considered incomplete and shall not be eligible for
consideration by the Planning Commission
   1.   Technical Review. Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the
proposed amendment and application materials shall be distributed to
appropriate Village staff and applicable outside agencies and designated
Village consultants for review.
   2.   Public Hearing. A public hearing shall be held for all proposed
amendments in accordance with the procedures set forth in Michigan Public Act
110 of 2006, as amended.
   3.   Planning Commission Consideration. Subsequent to the hearing, the
Planning Commission shall review the proposed amendment, together with any
reports and recommendations from staff, consultants, other reviewing agencies,
and any public comments. The Planning Commission shall identify and evaluate
all factors relevant to the petition, including the appropriate criteria listed
in this Section, and shall report its findings and recommendation to the
Village Council.
   4.   Village Council Action. Upon receipt of the report and recommendation
from the Planning Commission, the Village Council shall consider the proposed
amendment. If determined to be necessary, the Village Council may refer the
amendment back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. In the
case of an amendment to the official Zoning Map, the Village Council shall
approve or deny the amendment, based upon its consideration of the criteria
contained herein this Section.
3.10.3. Re-application.
Whenever an application for an amendment to this Ordinance has been denied by
the Village Council, a new application for the same amendment shall not be
accepted by the Planning Commission for consideration for a period of three
hundred sixty-five (365) days, unless, upon recommendation by the Zoning
Administrator, the Planning Commission determines that one or more of the
following conditions has been met:
   1.    There is a substantial change in circumstances relevant to the issues
or facts considered during review of the application that might reasonably
affect the decision-making body’s application of the relevant review standards
to the development proposed in the application.
   2.    New or additional information is available that was not available at
the time of the review that might reasonably affect the decision-making body’s
application of the relevant review standards to the development proposed.
   3.    The new application is materially different from the prior
application.
3.10.4. Criteria for Amendment of Zoning District Map.
In considering any petition for an amendment to the official zoning districts
map, the Planning Commission and Village Council shall consider the following
criteria in making its findings, recommendations, and decision:
   1.   Consistency with the goals, policies and objectives of the Village
Master Plan and any sub-area plans. If conditions have changed since the Master
Plan was adopted, consistency with recent development trends in the area shall
be considered.
   2.   Compatibility of the site’s physical, geological, hydrological, and
other environmental features with the uses permitted in the proposed zoning
district.
   3.   Evidence the applicant cannot receive a reasonable return on investment
through developing the property with one (1) or more of the uses permitted
under the current zoning.
   4.   Compatibility of all the potential uses allowed in the proposed zoning
district with surrounding uses and zoning in terms of land suitability, impacts
on the environment, density, nature of use, traffic impacts, aesthetics,
infrastructure, and potential influence on property values.
   5.   The capacity of Village’s utilities and services sufficient to
accommodate the uses permitted in the requested district without compromising
the health, safety, and welfare of the Village.
   6.   The capability of the street system to safely and efficiently
accommodate the expected traffic generated by uses permitted in the requested
zoning district.
   7.   The apparent demand for the types of uses permitted in the requested
zoning district in the Village in relation to the amount of land in the Village
currently zoned to accommodate the demand.
   8.    Where a rezoning is reasonable given the above criteria, a
determination shall be made that the requested zoning district is more
appropriate than another district or amending the list of permitted or special
land uses within a district.
3.10.5. Protests.
Upon presentation of a protest petition meeting the requirements of this
subsection, an amendment to the zoning ordinance which is the object of the
petition shall be passed only by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Village
Council. The protest petition shall be presented to the Village Council before
final council action on the amendment, and shall meet signatory requirements of
the following subparagraphs (1) or (2):
   1.     The owners of at least twenty (20) percent of the area of land
included in the proposed change.
   2.    The owners of at least twenty (20) percent of the area of land
included within an area extending outward one hundred (100) feet from any point
on the boundary of the land in the proposed change. For the purposes of the
subsection, publicly owned land shall be excluded in calculating the twenty
(20) percent land area requirement.
Sec. 3.11 CONDITIONAL REZONING
3.11.1. Intent.
It is recognized that there are certain instances where it would be in the best
interests of the Village, as well as advantageous to property owners seeking a
change in zoning boundaries, if certain conditions could be proposed by
property owners as part of a request for a rezoning. It is the intent of this
Section to provide a process consistent with the provisions of Section 405 of
the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, by which an owner
seeking a rezoning may voluntarily propose conditions regarding the use and/or
development of land as part of the rezoning request.
3.11.2. Application and Offer of Conditions.
   1.   An owner of land may voluntarily offer in writing conditions relating
to the use and/or development of land for which a rezoning is requested. This
offer may be made either at the time the application for rezoning is filed or
may be made at a later time during the rezoning process.
   2.   The required application and process for considering a rezoning request
with conditions shall be the same as that for considering rezoning requests
made without any offer of conditions, except as modified by the requirements of
this Section.
   3.    The owner’s offer of conditions may not purport to authorize uses or
developments not permitted in the requested new zoning district.
   4.   The owner’s offer of conditions shall bear a reasonable and rational
relationship to the property for which rezoning is requested.
   5.   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
would require a special land use permit under the terms of this Ordinance may
only be commenced if a special land use permit for such use or development is
ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   6.   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
would require a variance under the terms of this Ordinance may only be
commenced if a variance for such use or development is ultimately granted by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
   7.   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
would require site plan approval under the terms of this Ordinance may only be
commenced if site plan approval for such use or development is ultimately
granted in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   8.   The offer of conditions may be amended during the process of rezoning
consideration provided that any amended or additional conditions are entered
voluntarily by the owner. An owner may withdraw all or part of its offer of
conditions any time prior to final rezoning action of the Village Council
provided that, if such withdrawal occurs subsequent to the Planning
Commission’s public hearing on the original rezoning request, then the rezoning
application shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a new public
hearing with appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
3.11.3. Planning Commission Review.
The Planning Commission, after public hearing and consideration of the
standards for approval set forth in Section
3.11.5, may recommend approval, approval with recommended changes or denial of
the rezoning; provided, however, that any recommended changes to the offer of
conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner.
3.11.4. Village Council Review.
After receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Village Council
shall deliberate upon the requested rezoning and may approve or deny the
conditional rezoning request. The Village Council’s deliberations shall
include, but not be limited to, a consideration of the standards for approval
set forth in Section
3.11.5. Should the Village Council consider amendments to the proposed
conditional rezoning advisable and if such contemplated amendments to the offer
of conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner, then the
Village Council shall, in accordance with the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
refer such amendments to the Planning Commission for a report thereon within a
time specified by the Village Council and proceed thereafter in accordance with
said statute to deny or approve the conditional rezoning with or without
amendments.
3.11.5. Criteria.
In reviewing an application for the rezoning or land where there is an offer of
conditions, the Planning Commission and Village Council shall consider the
criteria outlined in Section
3.10.4 of this Ordinance.
3.11.6. Approval.
   1.    If the Village Council finds the rezoning request and offer of
conditions acceptable, the offered conditions shall be incorporated into a
formal written Statement of Conditions acceptable to the owner and conforming
in form to the provisions of this Section. The Statement of Conditions shall be
incorporated by attachment or otherwise as an inseparable part of the ordinance
adopted by the Village Council to accomplish the requested rezoning.
   2.    The Statement of Conditions shall:
      a.   Be in a form recordable with the Register of Deeds of the County in
which the subject land is located or, in the alternative, be accompanied by a
recordable Affidavit or Memorandum prepared and signed by the owner giving
notice of the Statement of Conditions in a manner acceptable to the Village
Council.
      b.   Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains.
      c.   Contain a statement acknowledging that the Statement of Conditions
runs with the land and is binding upon successor owners of the land.
      d.   Incorporate by attachment or reference any diagram, plans or other
documents submitted or approved by the owner that are necessary to illustrate
the implementation of the Statement of Conditions. If any such documents are
incorporated by reference, the reference shall specify where the document may
be examined.
      e.   Contain a statement acknowledging that the Statement of Conditions
or an Affidavit or Memorandum giving notice thereof shall be recorded with the
Register of Deeds of Sanilac County by the owner with a copy of the recorded
document provided to the Village within forty-five (45) days of its recording.
      f.   Contain the notarized signatures of all of the owners of the subject
land preceded by a statement attesting to the fact that they voluntarily offer
and consent to the provisions contained within the Statement of Conditions.
   3.    Upon the rezoning taking effect, the Zoning Map shall be amended to
reflect the new zoning classification along with a designation that the land
was rezoned with a Statement of Conditions. The Village Clerk shall maintain a
listing of all lands rezoned with a Statement of Conditions.
   4.   The approved Statement of Conditions or an Affidavit or Memorandum
giving notice thereof shall be filed by the owner with the Register of Deeds of
Sanilac County. The owner shall provide a copy of the recorded document to the
Village within forty-five (45) days of the date of its recording. The Village
Council shall have authority to waive this requirement if it determines that,
given the nature of the conditions and/or the time frame within which the
conditions are to be satisfied, the recording of such a document would be of no
material benefit to the Village or to any subsequent owner of the land.
   5.    Upon the rezoning taking effect, the use of the land so rezoned shall
conform thereafter to all of the requirements regulating use and development
within the new zoning district as modified by any more restrictive provisions
contained in the Statement of Conditions.
3.11.7 .Compliance with Conditions.
   1.   Any person who establishes a development or commences a use upon land
that has been rezoned with conditions shall continuously operate and maintain
the development or use in compliance with all of the conditions set forth in
the
   2.   Statement of Conditions. Any failure to comply with a condition
contained within the Statement of Conditions shall constitute a violation of
this Zoning Ordinance and be punishable accordingly. Additionally, any such
violation shall be deemed a nuisance per se and subject to judicial abatement
as provided by law.
   3.   No permit or approval shall be granted under this Ordinance for any use
or development that is contrary to an applicable Statement of Conditions.
3.11.8. Time Period for Establishing Development or Use.
Unless another time period is specified in the Ordinance rezoning the subject
land, the approved development and/or use of the land pursuant to building and
other required permits must be commenced upon the land within 36 months after
the rezoning took effect and thereafter proceed diligently to completion. This
time limitation may upon written request be extended by the Village Council if:
   1.   it is demonstrated to the Village Council’s reasonable satisfaction
that there is a strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence
within the period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion;
and
   2.   the Village Council finds that there has not been a change in
circumstances that would render the current zoning with Statement of Conditions
incompatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding area or otherwise
inconsistent with sound zoning policy; and
   3.   the written request shall be made to the Village Council requesting the
extension within 6 months of the end of the 36-month period.
3.11.9. Reversion of Zoning.
If approved development and/or use of the rezoned land does not occur within
the time frame specified under Section
3.11.8 above, then the land shall revert to its former zoning classification as
set forth in MCL 125.3405(2). The reversion process shall be initiated by the
Village Council requesting that the Planning Commission proceed with
consideration of rezoning of the land to its former zoning classification. The
procedure for considering and making this reversionary rezoning shall
thereafter be the same as applies to all other rezoning requests.
3.11.10. Subsequent Rezoning of Land.
When land that is rezoned with a Statement of Conditions is thereafter rezoned
to a different zoning classification or to the same zoning classification but
with a different or no Statement of Conditions, whether as a result of a
reversion of zoning pursuant to Section
3.11.9 above or otherwise, the Statement of Conditions imposed under the former
zoning classification shall cease to be in effect. Upon the owner’s written
request, the Village Clerk shall record with the Register of Deeds of the
County in which the land is located a notice that the Statement of Conditions
is no longer in effect.
3.11.11. Amendment of Conditions.
   1.   During the time period for commencement of an approved development or
use specified pursuant to Section
3.11.8 above or during any extension thereof granted by the Village Council,
the Council shall not add to or alter the conditions in the Statement of
Conditions.
   2.   The Statement of Conditions may be amended thereafter in the same
manner as was prescribed for the original rezoning and Statement of Conditions.
3.11.12. Village Right to Rezone.
Nothing in the Statement of Conditions nor in the provisions of this Section
shall be deemed to prohibit the Village from rezoning all or any portion of
land that is subject to a Statement of Conditions to another zoning
classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in compliance with this
Ordinance and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act.
3.11.13. Failure to Offer Conditions.
The Village shall not require an owner to offer conditions as a requirement for
rezoning. The lack of an offer of conditions shall not affect an owner’s rights
under this Ordinance.
***** ARTICLE 4: ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS *****
Sec. 4.1 DISTRICT DESIGNATIONS
For the purpose of the Ordinance, the Village of Lexington is hereby divided
into the following districts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
 
Sec. 4.2 ZONING DISTRICT MAP
4.2.1. Identified.
The zoning districts as provided in Section
4.1 are bounded and defined as shown on the map entitled "Zoning District Map
of the Village of Lexington." The Zoning District Map, along with all
notations, references, and other explanatory information, shall accompany and
be made a part of this Ordinance.
4.2.2. Authority.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Zoning District Map
which may be published, a true and current copy of the Zoning District map
available for public inspection shall be located in and maintained by the
office of the Village Clerk. The Clerk’s copy shall be the final authority as
to the current status of any land, parcel, lot, district, use, building, or
structure in the Village.
4.2.3. Interpretation of District Boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the districts
indicated on the Zoning District Map, the following rules shall apply:
   1.    A boundary indicated as approximately following the centerline of a
highway, alley, or easement shall be construed as following such centerline.
   2.   A boundary indicated approximately following a recorded lot line or the
line bounding a parcel shall be construed as following such line.
   3.   A boundary indicated as approximately following a municipal boundary
line shall be construed as following such line.
   4.   A boundary indicated as following a railroad line shall be construed as
being located midway in the right-of-way.
   5.   A boundary indicated as following a shoreline shall be construed as
following such shoreline, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed as following the shoreline existing at the time the interpretation is
made.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.jpg]
 
   6.   The boundary indicated as following the centerline of a stream or
river, canal, lake or other body of water shall be construed as following such
centerline.
   7.   A distance not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall
be determined by the scale of the map.
   8.   Where an existing physical feature is at variance with that shown on
the Official Zoning Map or any other circumstances not covered by (1) through
(7) preceding, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall interpret the location of the
zoning district boundary.
Sec. 4.3 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
The regulations herein established within each zoning district shall be the
minimum regulations for promoting and protecting the public health, safety, and
general welfare and shall be uniform for each class of land, buildings,
structure, or uses throughout each district.
No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, or moved, nor shall any
building or premises hereafter be used for any purpose other than is permitted
in the district in which said building or premises is located, except by appeal
as herein described by this Ordinance.
Wherever the requirements of this Ordinance are at variance with the
requirements of any other adopted regulations, or ordinances, the most
restrictive or those imposing the higher standards shall govern. Except as
hereinafter provided, district regulations shall be applied in the following
manner.
4.3.1. Uses in Districts.
(See also
Appendix A, Summary Table of Uses by Zoning District)
   1.   Permitted Uses. Permitted uses shall be permitted by right only if
specifically listed as principal permitted uses in the various zoning districts
or are similar to such listed uses, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   2.   Accessory Uses and Buildings. Accessory uses are permitted only if such
uses are clearly incidental to the permitted principal uses.
   3.   Special Land Uses. Special land uses are permitted only if specifically
listed or if similar to the listed special land uses, as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
4.3.2. Application of Area and Width Regulations.
(See also Section
4.11, Schedule of Regulations)
   1.    The area or width of a lot shall not be reduced below the minimum
requirements herein established for the district in which such lot is located.
   2.    Every parcel of land shall meet the minimum lot width requirements set
forth in Section
4.5 Schedule of Regulations and shall have frontage on and/or direct access to
a public street which has been accepted for maintenance by the Village.
   3.    Access to a single-family dwelling shall be limited to one individual
driveway.
4.3.3. Application of Yard Regulations.
   1.   No part of a yard required for any building for the purposes of
compliance with this Ordinance shall be included as a part of a yard or other
open space similarly required for another building.
   2.   All front yard setback lines shall be the minimum perpendicular
distance measured from the right-of-way of the road upon which a lot or parcel
fronts to the nearest point of the principal structure.
   3.   All side and rear yard setback lines shall be the minimum perpendicular
distance between the nearest point on the side or rear of the structure and the
side or rear lot
   4.   line parallel thereto.
   5.   On corner lots the required front yards shall be provided along both
street frontages.
   6.   No building, structure, fence, or other permanent improvement shall be
permitted to be erected or located within a public right-of-way except for
those improvements authorized by the Village.
4.3.4. Application of Height Regulations.
   1.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit hereinafter established for the
district in which the building is located, as set forth in Section
4.11, Schedule of Regulations.
   2.   Exception to Height Regulations. Roof structures for the housing of
elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to
operate and maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights,
towers, steeples, and screens, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks,
or similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed.
No such structure shall exceed by more than fifteen (15) feet the height limit
of the district in which it is located.
   3.   Communications towers shall be subject to the regulations set forth in
Section
5.24.
4.3.5. Location and Number of Buildings on Lot of Record.
   1.   Every building erected, altered, or moved shall be located on a lot of
record as defined herein.
   2.   There shall be only one (1) single-family dwelling permitted per lot in
the Agriculture or single-family zoning districts. Where there is more than one
(1) single-family dwelling located on a lot of record at the time of adoption
of this Ordinance, said dwelling shall not be divided from the lot except in
conformity with the requirements of this Ordinance.
Sec. 4.4 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT (AG)
4.4.1. Intent.
This District is composed of those areas of the Village whose principal use is
farming, along with related uses that support and enhance the agricultural
heritage of the Village, such as agriculture-based tourism uses. The
regulations of this District are designed to conserve, stabilize, enhance, and
develop farming and related resource-utilization activities, to minimize
conflicting uses of parcels, lots, buildings, and structures detrimental to or
incompatible with these activities, and to prohibit uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures which require streets, drainage and other public
services of a different type and quantity than those normally required by these
activities.
4.4.2 AG District Use Table
In the AG District, land, buildings, and other structures shall be used only
for one or more of the uses specified in the table below. Uses denoted by a "P"
are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are considered special land
uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the procedures
and standards of Section
3.3, Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed AG District Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed                                  AG District Add'l Reg'ts
RESIDENTIAL USES
Single-family detached dwellings                       P
AGRICULTURAL USES
Agribusiness establishments                            SLU
Agritourism establishments                             SLU
Farming operation, which includes the land, plants,
buildings, structure, including ponds used for
agricultural or aqua cultural activities, machinery,
equiement and other appurtenances used in the          P
commercial production of farm products, and in
accordance with the Michigan Right to Farm Act, Public
Act 93, 1981
Farm supply and feed stores                            SLU
Nurseries, greenhouses and garden centers              SLU         Sec.
                                                                   5.15
Open air farmers markets: A farm market shall be
subject to an application, fee and the rules as set
forth by the Village Council. Each vendor shall sign,  P
receive and adhere to the application, the fee
structure and the general r ules of operation as
established by the Lexin ton Village Council.
Public and private recreation and conservation areas,
including forest preserves, game refuges and reserves, P
and similar public and private uses of low intensity
use
Roadside stands                                        P
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Cemeteries                                             SLU
Churches and other institutions for religious worship  SLU
Public buildings and uses, but not including outdoor   SLU
storage yards
Public and private elementary, middle and high schools P
Public and private nursery schools and kindergartens   P
RECREATION USES
Campgrounds and RV parks                               SLU
Golf courses, includ ing golf driving ranges           SLU
Petting zoos                                           SLU
Public parks and playgrounds                           P
RETAIL USES
Flea markets                                           SLU
FOOD & DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS
Micro-breweries, small wineries and small
distilleries, provided the brewing, wine-making and    SLU
distilling area is less than 2,500 square feet
INDUSTRIAL USES
Office, showroom or workshop of an artist, craftsman,  SLU
carpenter and similar creative services
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses are also allowed and regulated by Section
5.4.
Sec. 4.5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
4.5.1 Intent.
This District is composed of those areas of the Village served by a public
water supply system and public sanitary sewer system where the principal use is
intended to be single- family dwellings on moderately sized lots. In addition
to the dwellings permitted in this Zoning District, there are certain non-
residential and public uses which may be permitted by the Village.
4.5.2R-1 District Use Table
In the R-1 District, land, buildings, and other structures shall be used only
for one or more of the uses specified in the table below. Uses denoted by a "P"
are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are considered special land
uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the procedures
and standards of Section
3.3, Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed R-1 District Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed                                 R-1 District Add'l Reg'ts
RESIDENTIAL USES
Cluster housing                                       SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.2
Home occupations                                      P            Sec.
                                                                   5.10
Short term rentals                                    P            Sec.
                                                                   5.25
Single -family detached dwellings                     P
Two family dwellings                                  SLU
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES
Adult foster care family homes                        P            Sec.
                                                                   5.9
Adult foster care small group homes serving 6 persons P            Sec.
or less                                                            5.9
Adult foster care small group homes serving more than SLU          Sec.
6 persons                                                          5.9
Adult foster care large group homes                   SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.9
Family day care homes                                 P            Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Group day care homes                                  SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.8
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Churches and other institutions for religious worship SLU
Day care centers                                      SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Public buildings and uses, but not including outdoor  SLU
storage yards
Public and private elementary, middle and high        P
schools p
Public and private nursery schools and kindergartens  P
RECREATION USES
Country clubs, public swimming pools and recreation   SLU
clubs
Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges   SLU
Public parks and playgrounds                          P
LODGING USES
Bed and breakfast establishments                      SLU          Sec
                                                                   5.20
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses are also allowed and regulated by Section
5.4.
Sec. 4.6 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-2 AND R-3)
4.6.1 Intent: R-2, Low Density Multiple Family Residential District.
This District is composed of those areas of the Village where the principal use
is intended to be multiple family dwellings. The regulations of this District
are designed to permit a lower density of population and land use intensity
than is allowed in the R-3 District. Areas zoned R-2 shall be served by public
water supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system, and abut or are
adjacent to such other uses, buildings, structures, or amenities which support,
complement, or serve a multiple-family density. In addition to the dwellings
permitted in this Zoning District, there are certain non-residential and public
uses which may be permitted by the Village.
4.6.2 Intent: R-3, Medium Density Multiple Family Residential District.
This District is composed of those areas of the Village where the principal use
is intended to be multiple family dwellings at a moderate density. The
regulations of this District are designed to permit a medium density of
population and land use intensity. Areas zoned R-3 shall be served by a public
water supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system, and which abut or
are adjacent to such other uses, buildings, structures, or amenities which
support, complement, or serve such a multiple family density. In addition to
the dwellings permitted in this Zoning District; there are certain non-
residential and public uses which may be permitted by the Village.
4.6.3 R-2 and R-3 District Use Table
In the R-2 and R-3 Districts, land, buildings, and other structures shall be
used only for one or more of the uses specified in the table below. Uses
denoted by a "P" are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are
considered special land uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission
subject to the procedures and standards of Section
3.3, Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed R-2 District R-3 District Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed                    R-2 District R-3 District Add'l Reg'ts
RESIDENTIAL USES
Cluster housing                          SLU          SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.2
Home occupations                         P            P            Sec.
                                                                   5.10
Multiple-family dwellings                P            P
Single-family detached dwellings         P            P
Stacked dwellings                        P            P
Town house dwellings                     P            P
Two family dwellings                     P            P
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES
Adult foster care family homes           P            P            Sec.
                                                                   5.9
Adult foster care small group homes      P            P            Sec.
serving 6 persons or less                                          5.9
Adult foster care small group homes      SLU          SLU          Sec.
serving more than 6 persons                                        5.9
Adult foster care large group homes      SLU          SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.9
Adult foster care congregate facilities  SLU          SLU
Convalescent homes or nursing homes      SLU          SLU
Family day care homes                    P            P            Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Group day care homes                     SLU          SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Housing for the elderly/senior living    SLU          SLU
facilities
Senior assisted living or independent    SLU          SLU
living facilities
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Churches and other institutions for      SLU          SLU
religious worship
Day care centers                         SLU          SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Public buildings and uses, but not       SLU          SLU
including outdoor storage yards
Public and private elementary, middle    P            P
and high schools
Public and private nursery schools and   P            P
kindergartens
RECREATION USES
Country clubs, public swimming pools and SLU          SLU
recreation clubs
Golf courses, but not including golf     SLU          SLU
driving ranges
Public parks and playgrounds             P            P
OFFICE AND SERVICE RELATED USES
Funeral establishments                                SLU
MEDICAL RELATED USES
Hospitals                                             SLU
Medical and dental offices, when
accessory to a convalescent home,                     SLU
nursing home, assisted living or similar
residential care facility
LODGING USES
Bed and breakfast establishments         SLU          SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.20
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses are also allowed and regulated by Section
5.4.
Sec. 4.7 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT (MHP)
4.7.1 Intent.
The intent of this District is to provide for mobile home residential
development in areas where the natural conditions and features, public
services, and infrastructure are capable of supporting such development. Areas
zoned MHP shall be located in areas which are compatible with the character and
density of adjacent uses.
4.7.2 MHP District Use Table
In the MHP District, land, buildings, and other structures shall be used only
for one or more of the uses specified in the table below. Uses denoted by a "P"
are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are considered special land
uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the procedures
and standards of Section
3.3, Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed R-3 District Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed                                 R-3 District Add'l Reg'ts
RESIDENTIAL USES
Cluster housing                                       SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.2
Mobile home parks                                     P            Sec.
                                                                   5.7
Two family dwellings                                  SLU
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES
Adult foster care family homes                        P            Sec.
                                                                   5.9
Adult foster care small group homes serving 6 persons P            Sec.
or less                                                            5.9
Adult foster care small group homes serving more than SLU          Sec.
6 persons                                                          5.9
Adult foster care large group homes                   SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.9
Adult foster care congregate facilities               SLU
Family day care homes                                 P            Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Group day care homes                                  SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.8
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Churches and other institutions for religious worship SLU
Day care centers                                      SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Public buildings and uses, but not including outdoor  SLU
storage yards
Public and private elementary, middle and high        P
schools
Public and private nursery schools and kindergartens  P
RECREATION USES
Country clubs, public swimming pools and recreation   SLU
clubs SLU
Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges   SLU
SLU
Public parks and playgrounds p                        P
LODGING USES
Bed and breakfast establishments                      SLU          Sec.
                                                                   5.20
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses are also allowed and regulated by Section
5.4.
Sec. 4.8 MIXED USE & CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS (C-MU, G-MU, AND CBD)
4.8.1 Intent: C-MU, Corridor Mixed Use District.
The intent of the C-MU, Corridor Mixed Use district is to accommodate a
flexible variety of uses and scales; preserve historic detached houses;
integrate context-sensitive mixed residential, retail, office, and service
uses; and serve as a transition from the denser downtown to nearby established
residential neighborhoods. Uses intended within this District may include
small-scale pedestrian-oriented retail, specialty grocery, personal services,
business services, financial institutions, sit-down family restaurants, and
medical clinics.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.jpg]
 
4.8.2 Intent: G-MU, Gateway Mixed Use District.
The intent of the Gateway Mixed Use district is to accommodate a flexible
variety of uses and scales; preserve historic detached houses; integrate
context-sensitive mixed residential, office, and service uses; and serve as a
transition from the denser downtown to nearby established residential
neighborhoods. More restrictive than the C-MU District, the Gateway Mixed Use
would support a mixture of residential use along with limited non- residential
use designed to conform to the historic residential scale and character.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.jpg]
 
4.8.3 Intent: CBD, Central Business District
The intent of the Central Business District is to create a pedestrian-friendly,
compact downtown district with a mixture of uses. Typically, the mixture of
uses are ground floor storefronts for retail and entertainment uses with
offices and residential on upper stories. This District features uses that
satisfy the retail, convenience, and service needs of the market area which
includes the Village and surrounding Townships. This District prohibits auto-
related and auto-oriented uses which do not support a compact pedestrian-
friendly environment.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.jpg]
 
4.8.4 C-MU, G-MU and CBD Districts Use Table
In the C-MU, G-MU and CBD Districts, land, buildings, and other structures
shall be used only for one or more of the uses specified in the table below.
Uses denoted by a "P" are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are
considered special land uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission
subject to the procedures and standards of Section
3.3 Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed C-MU District G-MU District CBD Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed   C-MU District G-MU District CBD Add'l Reg'ts
RESIDENTIAL USES
Cluster housing         SLU           SLU               Sec.
                                                        5.2
Home occupations        P             P                 Sec.
                                                        5.10
Multiple-family         P             SLU                
dwellings
Multiple-family housing
and/or apartment        P                           P    
dwelling second floor
and above
                                                        Sec.
Short term rentals      P             P             P   5.25 (Applicable for C-
                                                        MU and G-MU)
Single-family detached                P                  
dwellings
Single-family dwelling
established and
existing at the time of P                           P    
adoption of this
Ordinance
Stacked dwellings       SLU           SLU                
Town house dwellings    SLU           SLU                
Two family dwellings    SLU           SLU                
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACIUTIES
Adult foster care       P             P                 Sec.
family homes                                            5.9
Adult foster care small
group homes serving 6   P             P                  
persons or less
Adult foster care small
group homes serving     SLU           SLU                
more than 6 persons
Adult foster care large SLU           SLU               Sec.
group homes                                             5.9
Adult foster care       SLU           SLU                
congregate faci lities
Convalescent homes or   SLU           SLU                
nursing homes
Family day care homes   P             P                 Sec.
                                                        5.8
Group day care homes    SLU           SLU               Sec.
                                                        5.8
Housing for the
elderly/senior living   SLU           SLU                
fac ilities
Sen ior ass isted liv
ing or in dependent     SLU           SLU                
living facilities
AGRICULTURAL USES
Farm supply and feed    P                                
stores
Nurseries, greenhouses  P                               Sec.
and garden centers                                      5.15
Open air farmers        P                           P    
markets
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Business schools,
colleges and                                             
universities
Cemeteries                                               
Churches and other
institutions for        SLU           SLU           P    
religious worship
Day care centers        SLU           SLU               Sec.
                                                        5.8
Private service clubs,
social organizations    SLU           SLU           P    
and lodge halls
Public buildings and
uses, but not includ    SLU           SLU           P    
ing outdoor storage
yards
Theaters, when                                      P    
completely enclosed
RECREATION USES
Public parks and        P             P             P
playgrounds
Recreation and
amusement services,
including theaters,
bowling alleys, roller                              SLU
and ice skating rinks,
billiar halls and
miniature golf
OFFICE AND SERVICE RELATED USES
Banks, credit unions,
savings and loan
associations, excluding P             P             P
drivethrough
establishments
Banks, credit unions,
savings and loan
associations, including SLU
drivethrough
establishments
Business service
establishments such as
printing and
photocopying services,  P             P             P
mail and packaging
services, and typing
and secretarial
services
Funeral establishments  SLU           SLU           P
Laundromats and dry                                 P
cleaning establishments
Office buildings for
the use of any of the
following occupations:
executive;
administrative;         P             P             P
professional;
accounting; writing;
clerical; stenographic;
drafting; and sales
Personal service
establishments, such as
barber and beauty
shops; watch, clothing  P             P             P
and shoe repair;
locksmith; and...
similar establishments
Radio, television, and
electrical appliance
repair, and shops of                                P
plumbers, electricians
and other similar
services and trades
Studios for the
participation or
teaching of art, dance,
fitness, music,
photography. and        P             P             P
similar uses, including
ancillary sale of
products related to
such uses
Veterinary offices and
hospitals, including
accessory boarding,     SLU           SLU           P
provided no outdoor
exercise runs or pens
are permitted
MEDICAL RELATED USES
Medical and dental
offices, including      P             P             P
clinics and medical
laboratories
RETAIL USES
Florist shops           P                           P
Office, showroom or
workshop of an artist,
craftsman, carpenter    P                           P
and similar creative
services requiring a
retail adjunct
Outdoor display of
products or materials
for retail sale or      P                           P   Sec.
rental when accessory                                   5.18
to a principal
permitted use
Retail sales            P                           P
FOOD & DRINK ESTABUSHMENTS
Bar/lounge, including
brewpubs, serving       SLU                         SLU
beverages and/or
providing entertainment
Fast food restaurants,
excluding drive-in and  SLU                         SLU
drive-through
restaurants
Food services including
grocery, meat market,
bakery, restaurant,
delicatessen and fruit
market, and similar     P                           P
self-service un its but
not including any
business of a drive-in
type
Micro-breweries, small
wineries and small
distilleries, provided                                  Sec.
the brewing, wine-      SLU                         SLU 5.26
making and distilling
area is less than 2,500
square feet
Sidewalk cafes          P                           P   Sec.
                                                        5.19
Sit down or carry out
restaurants, excluding  P                           P
drive-in or drive-
through restaurants
LODGING USES
Bed and breakfast       SLU           SLU           P   Sec.
establishments                                          5.20
Lodging facilities      SLU                         SLU
INDUSTRIAL USES
Contractor's
establishments,
provided all products,  SLU                             Sec.
material, and equipment                                 5.16
are stored within an
enclosed building
Entrepreneurial and
business incubator      P                           P
spaces
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses are also allowed and regulated by Section 5.4.
4.8.5 C-MU and G-MU Siting and Building Requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-68.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-70.jpg]
 
4.8.6 CBD Siting and Building Requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-72.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-74.jpg]
 
4.8.7CBD Building Standards.
The following standards supplement those in Section
5.6, Building Design Standards.
   1.   Fenestration
      a.   Ground floor windows may not be made opaque by window treatments
(except operable sunscreen devices). A minimum of 80% of the window surface
shall allow a view into the building interior for a depth of at least 12 feet.
      b.    The bottom of the window must be no more than 3 feet above the
adjacent exterior grade.
   2.   Horizontal Articulation
      a.   Buildings shall be designed to reduce apparent mass by dividing
facades into a series of smaller vertical components or bays. Bays shall extend
continuously from base to top. Components shall be distinguished from one
another through a combination of the following:
      b.   Variations in overall massing. Changes in parapet projection height
shall only occur with a corresponding change in plan.
      c.   Vertical bays defined by pronounced changes in plan to create
recesses and projections, a minimum of three feet from build to line of the
facade.
      d.   Distinct changes in exterior finish material corresponding to a
change in the building plan. A minimum of three feet from build to line of the
facade, or a distinct organizing architectural feature with a projection a
minimum of 8 inches.
   3.   Ground floor Articulation
      a.   Storefront buildings shall be designed to create a distinct and
separated ground floor area through the use of a horizontal expression line,
such as a string course, change in material or textures, awnings or canopies,
or sign band between the first and second stories.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.jpg]
 
4.8.8 Definitions and Rules of Measurement.
The following definitions and rules of measurement apply within this Section
4.8.
   1.   Measuring height.
      a.   The minimum and maximum building heights are measured from the
average fronting sidewalk to the halfway point of a pitched roof or to the top
of a wall plate for flat roofs.
      b.   The minimum height shall be satisfied from the build-to line back to
a depth of at least 30 feet for the specified build-to percentage of frontage.
   2.   Building element heights.
      a.   Ground floor elevation shall be measured from the average fronting
sidewalk grade to the first story finished floor elevation.
      b.   Ground floor height shall be measured from the average fronting
sidewalk grade to the second story finished floor elevation.
      c.   Upper floor clear height shall be measured from finished floor
elevation to finished ceiling elevation.
      d.   Sill height shall be measured from the average fronting sidewalk
grade to the top of the ground floor sill.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.jpg]
 
   3.   Frontage designation.
      a.   See Section
2.2 for lot line and yard definitions.
      b.   Primary frontage is located along the front lot line.
      c.   Corner lots, through lots, or any lot with more than one street
frontage, shall have a secondary frontage for all sides adjacent to a street
not identified as the primary frontage. Alleys shall not be considered street
frontage.
   4.   Build-to.
      a.   Definition. Build-to is a line parallel to the public street right-
of-way to which buildings must be constructed to.
      b.   Build-to measurement. Build-to is measured from and perpendicular to
the lot line abutting a street. Where a public access easement abuts the public
street right- of-way on a lot, the build-to shall be measured from the easement
rather than the lot line.
      c.   Percentage of frontage. Required build-to is calculated as a
percentage using the length of the primary building wall divided by the total
lot width, as measured at the lot line abutting the subject street right-of-
way. Buildings shall be built at or within the build-to requirement for at
least the minimum percentage (%) required along the primary and/or secondary
frontage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-80.jpg]
 
      d.   Building depth. The horizontal distance at the ground floor measured
perpendicular from the exterior of the street facing building wall at the
build-to line to the opposite exterior wall enclosing the permitted street
level active uses.
      e.   Architectural features utilized for building wall articulation that
are within two feet of the primary building wall may be utilized in the length
of applicable building wall meeting the build-to.
      f.    The primary facade width is measured at the build-to line. No
segment of the primary building wall at the build-to-line may exceed the
primary facade width standard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-82.jpg]
 
   5.   Dooryard
      a.   The dooryard is defined as the area between the property line and
the front facade/build-to. It is intended as a transitional area between the
public realm and private property for pedestrian-oriented amenities.
      b.   The dooryard shall accommodate entrances, outdoor seating,
projections such as awnings, balconies, stoops, and porches.
   6.   Parking Setback
      a.   Setback. Surface and structured parking and loading spaces are not
permitted within a primary frontage parking setback on the ground level.
      b.   Vehicle access. Vehicle maneuvering lanes are prohibited within
primary frontage parking setbacks and are only permitted when alternative
locations are not available, and it is determined necessary during site plan
review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.jpg]
 
   7.   Fenestration.
      a.   Definition. Fenestration is defined as openings in the building
wall, including windows, doors, and open areas.
      b.   Measurement.
         i.   When measuring fenestration, framing elements (such as mullions
or muntin’s) with a dimension of two inches or less are considered part of the
opening.
         ii.    Ground floor fenestration shall be measured as a percentage of
glass per total wall area up to 14 feet above the ground floor elevation.
   8.   Pedestrian access.
      a.   Entrance.
         i.   The entrance shall be a door parallel to a street frontage within
15 feet of the building face; or a door at approximately a 45-degree angle to
the intersecting streets of a corner lot.
         ii.   The distance between entrances shall be measured from the center
of the door or set of doors.
      b.   Stoops, Porches, and Porticos
         i.   Definitions .
            1.   A stoop is a small staircase ending in a platform and leading
to the entrance of the building.
            2.   An enclosed porch is a covered stoop that has walls enclosing
the platform on all sides.
            3.   A portico is a defined entry landing or platform that serves a
similar architectural purpose as a porch or stoop as defining a clear entryway,
but with a ramp or at-grade entrance instead of steps.
         ii.   Depth shall be measured perpendicular from the building facade
to the opposite edge of the platform. Steps shall not be included in the
measurement.
         iii.   In C-MU, G-MU and CBD Districts, the platform of the stoop may
not encroach past the build-to. Stairs leading to the stoop may encroach past
the build-to.
Sec. 4.9 GC, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
4.9.1 Intent.
This District is intended to accommodate previously established office,
business service, and retail uses that serve a larger market including the
Village and portions of the surrounding townships. It is the purpose of these
regulations to permit development of the enumerated functions in a manner which
is compatible with uses in the surrounding area. To these ends, certain uses
are excluded which would function more effectively in other Districts.
4.9.2 GC District Use Table
In the GC District, land, buildings, and other structures shall be used only
for one or more of the uses specified in the table below. Uses denoted by a "P"
are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are considered special land
uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the procedures
and standards of Section
3.3, Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed GC District Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed                                  GC District Add'l Reg'ts
AGRICULTURAL USES
Multiple-family housing and/or apartment dwelling      P
second floor and above
Short term rentals                                     P
Single-family dwelling established and existing at the P
time of adoption of this Ordinance
AGRICULTURAL USES
Farm supply and feed stores                            P
Open air farmers markets                               P
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Churches and other institutions for religious worship  P
Day care centers                                       SLU         Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Private service clubs, social organizations and lodge  P
halls
Public buildings and uses, but not including outdoor   P
storage yards
Public buildings and uses, including outdoor storage   SLU
yards
Training and/or educational centers where such centers
are designed and intended to provide training at the   P
business, technical and/or professional level
RECREATION USES
Public parks and playgrounds                           P
Recreation and amusement services, including theaters,
bowling alleys, roller and ice skating rinks, billiard SLU
halls and miniature golf
OFFICE AND SERVICE RELATED USES
Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations,   P
excluding drivethrough establishments
Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations,   SLU
includ ing drivethrough establishments
Business service establishments such as printing and
photocopying services, mail and packaging services,    P
and typing and secretarial services
Funeral establishments                                 P
Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments            P
Office buildings for the use of any of the following
occupations: executive; administrative; professional;  P
accounting; writing; clerical; stenographic drafting;
and sales
Personal service establishments, such as barber and
beauty shops; watch, clothing and shoe repair;         P
locksmith; and similar establishments
Radio, television, and electrical appliance repair,
and shops of lumbers, electricians and other similar   P
services and trades
Studios for the participation or teaching of art,
dance, fitness, music, photography and similar uses,   P
including ancillary sale of products related to such
uses
Veterinary offices and hospitals, including accessory
boarding, provided no outdoor exercise runs or pens    P
are permitted
MEDICAL RELATED USES
Medical and dental offices, including clinics and      P
medical laboratories
RETAIL USES
Flea markets                                           SLU
Florist shops                                          P
Office, showroom or workshop of an artist, craftsman,
carpenter and similar creative services requiring a    P
retail adjunct
Outdoor display of products or materials for retail
sale or rental when accessory to a principal permitted P           Sec. 5.18
use
Outdoor sales of manufactured products                 SLU         Sec. 5.15
Planned shopping centers                               P
Retail sales                                           P
FOOD &. DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS
Bar/lounge, including brewpubs, serving beverages and/ SLU
or providing entertainment
Drive-in restaurants, but excluding drive-through      SLU
restaurants
Fast food restaurants, including drive-in restaurants  SLU
but excluding drive- through restaurants
Food services including grocery, meat market, bakery,
restaurant, delicatessen and fruit market, and similar P
self-service units but D.Q1 including any business of
a drive-in type
Micro-breweries, small wineries and small
distilleries, provided the brewing, wine-making and    SLU         Sec. 5.26
distilling area is less than 2,500 square feet
Sidewalk cafes                                         P           Sec. 5.19
Sit down or carry out restaurants, excluding drive-in  P
or drive-through restaurants
VEHICULAR RELATED ISSUES
Automobile service stations and washes, including      SLU         Sec.
drive-through auto washes                                          5.17
Sale of new and used automobiles, boats, mobile homes, SLU         Sec. 5.15
farm machinery, and other vehicles
LODGING USES
Bed and breakfast establishments                       P           Sec.
                                                                   5.20
Lodging facilities                                     SLU
INDUSTRIAL USES
Contractor's establishments, provided all products,
material, and                                          SLU         Sec. 5.16
equipment are stored within an enclosed building
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses
are also allowed and regulated by Section
5.4.
Sec. 4.10 I-MU, INDUSTRIAL MIXED-USE DISTRICT
4.10.1 Intent.
This District is designed to accommodate a compatible mixture of light
industrial uses along with tourism-related uses and other uses that support job
creation and the economic growth of the Village. Such uses would generate a
minimum of noise, glare, odors, dust, vibration, air and water pollution, fire
and safety hazards, or the emission of any potentially harmful or obnoxious
matter or radiation or any other nuisance characteristics. This District is
well suited to accommodate new and expanded small-scale production, processing,
and warehousing facilities with flexible spaces to capitalize on local market
opportunities. Tourism-related uses, including campgrounds and lodging, in
addition to limited commercial use along the major road frontage, may also be
compatible within the District.
4.10.2 I-MU District Use Table
In the I-MU District, land, buildings, and other structures shall be used only
for one or more of the uses specified in the table below. Uses denoted by a "P"
are permitted by right and uses denoted by a "SLU" are considered special land
uses and may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the procedures
and standards of Section
3.3, Special Land Uses. Additional applicable use standards are listed in the
column at right.
Category/Uses Allowed I-MU District Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Uses Allowed                                I-MU District Add'l Reg'ts
AGRICULTURAL USES
Agribusiness establishments                          SLU            
Farm supply and feed stores                          P             Sec.
                                                                   5.15
Nurseries, greenhouses and garden centers            SLU            
Open air farmers markets                             P              
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Business schools, colleges and universities          SLU            
Cemeteries                                           SLU            
Churches and other institutions for religious        SLU            
worship
Public buildings and uses, but not including outdoor P              
storage yards
Public buildings and uses, including outdoor storage SLU            
yards
Training and/or educational centers where such
centers are designed and intended to provide         P              
training at the business, technical and/or
professional level
RECREATION USES
Campgrounds and RV parks                             SLU            
Country clubs, public swimming pools and recreation  SLU            
clubs
Public parks and playgrounds                         P              
Recreation and amusement services, including
theaters, bowling alleys roller and ice skating      SLU            
rinks billiard halls and miniature golf
OFFICE AND SERVICE RELATED USES
Business service establishments such as printing and
photocopying services, mail and packaging services,  P              
and typing and secretarial services
Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments          P              
Veterinary offices and hospitals, including
accessory boarding, provided no outdoor exercise     P              
runs or pens are permitted
Veterinary offices and hospitals, including
accessory boarding, with outdoor exercise runs or    SLU            
pens
MEDICAL RELATED USES
Medical research facilities                          P              
RETAIL USES
Flea markets                                         SLU            
Office, showroom or workshop of an artist,
craftsman, carpenter and similar creative services   P              
requiring a retail adjunct
Outdoor display of products or materials for retail                Sec.
sale or rental when accessory to a principal         P             5.18
permitted use
Outdoor sales of manufactured products               SLU           Sec.
                                                                   5.15
Planned shopping centers                             S              
Retail sales                                         P              
FOOD & DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS
Micro-breweries, breweries, small wineries,          P             Sec.
wineries, small distilleries, and distilleries                     5.26
Restaurants and cafeteria facilities for employees   P              
VEHICULAR RELATED USES
Automobile repair facilities, paint shops and
collision shops for autos and other vehicles,        SLU            
construction and farm equipment
LODGING USES
Lodging facilities                                   SLU            
STORAGE AND LOGISTICS USES
Self-storage facilities                              P             Sec.
                                                                   5.13
Trucking and transit terminals                       SLU            
Truck and industrial equipment storage yards,
including repairing                                  SLU            
and washing of trucks and equipment
Warehousing and wholesale establishments             P              
INDUSTRIAL USES
Data processing and computer centers including the
servicing and maintenance of electronic data         P              
processing equipment
Contractor's establishments, provided all products,                Sec.
material, and equipment are stored within an         P             5.16
enclosed building
Contractor's establishments, including outdoor       SLU           Sec.
storage                                                            5.16
Entrepreneurial and business incubator spaces        P              
Manufacturing and repair of electric or neon signs,
light sheet metal products, including heating and    P              
ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves and the like
Manufacturing of musical instruments, toys,
novelties and metal or rubber stamps or other molded P              
rubber products
Manufacturing of pottery and figurines or other
similar ceramic products using only previously       P              
pulverized clay and kilns fired only by electricity
or gas
Manufacturing or assembly of electrical appliances,
electronic instruments and devices, radios and       P              
phonographs
Manufacturing, compounding, assembling, reassembly,
packaging or treatment of articles or merchandise
from previously prepared materials: bone, canvas,
cellophane, cloth, cork, elastomers, feathers, felt, P              
fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper,
plastics, rubber, precious or semi-precious metals
or stones, sheet metal, shell, textiles, tobacco,
wax, wire, wool and yarns
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or
treatment of such products as, but not limited to:
bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceutical,      P              
toiletries, food products, hardware and cutlery,
tool, die, gauge and machine shops
Metal fabrication, and tool and die shops            SLU            
Office, showroom or workshop of an artist,           P              
craftsman, carpenter and similar creative services
Printing, publishing, or related activities          P              
Recycling operations                                 SLU            
Research and development facilities, technical
centers and laboratories, and any use charged with   P              
the principal function of basic research, design and
pilot or experimental product development
OTHER USES
Adult entertainment establishments                   SLU           Sec.
                                                                   5.23
Mineral mining and extractive operations             SLU           Sec.
                                                                   5.21
                                                                  
 
Accessory uses, buildings, or structures incidental to the permitted or special
land uses are also allowed and regulated by Section
5.4.
Sec. 4.11 SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS

         Minimum Lot  Maximum Building Minimum Yard Setbacks            
         Size         Height Space     (ft.)                 Max. Lot  Foot-
Zoning                                                       Coverage  notes
District Area  Lot                           Each Side       (%)       (Sect.
         (sq.  Width  Stories Feet     Front Side Total Rear           4.11.1)
         ft.)  (ft.)

             Minimum Lot   Maximum      Minimum Yard Setbacks
             Size          Building     (ft.)                              
Zoning                     Height Space                          Max. Lot Foot-
District                                                         Coverage notes
             Area    Lot                         Each Side       (%)      (Sect.
             (sq.    Width Stories Feet Front    Side Total Rear          4.11.1)
             ft.)    (ft.)

AG.                                                                       1, 5, 6
Agriculture  43,560  150   2 1/2   35   50       20   40    50   15       and 7
District
R-1, Single-                                                              1, 5,
Family       8,500   66    2 1/2   35   Footnote 8    20    35   45       6, 7,
Residential                             10                                8, 9
                                                                          and 10
                                                                          1, 5,6,
                                        Footnote                          7, 8,
Cottage Lot  2,100   35    2 1/2   35   10       5    15    20   45       9, 10,
                                                                          11 and
                                                                          12
R-2,         SF:     90    2 1/2   35   25       8    20    35
Multiple     10,000                                                       1, 2,
Family       2F:     120   2 1/2   35   25       8    20    35   35       4,5, 7,
Residential, 20,000                                                       and 9
Low Density  MF:     35    2 1/2   35   25       20   25    35
             20,000
R-3,         SF:     90    2 1/2   35   25       8    20    35
Multiple     10,000                                                       1, 3,
Family       2F:     120   2 1/2   35   25       8    20    35   35       4, 5,
Residential, 20,000                                                       6, 7
Medium       MF:     300   2 1/2   35   50       20   50    50            and 9
Density      20,000
MHP, Mobile          See
Home Park    435,600 Sect. 2 1/2   35   See Sect. 5.7                     1 and 5
                     5.7
C-MU,        See Sect.
Corridor     4.8.5                                                        1 and 5
Mixed Use
G-MU,        See Sect.
Gateway      4.8.5                                                        1 and 5
Mixed Use
GC, General  20,000  100   2 1/2   35   50       10   20    20   50       1, 5
Commercial                                                                and 9
CBD, Central See Sect.
Business     4.8.6                                                        1 and 5
District
I-MU,        43,560  100   2       40   50       15   30    20   75       1 and 5
Industrial
 
SF = Single-Family Dwellings; 2F = Two-Family Dwellings; MF = Multiple-Family
Dwellings
For property adjacent to Lake Huron, the front yard is defined as the lakeside
of the property and the rear is defined as the street side of the property
other than for the front and rear setback requirements.
4.11.1 Footnotes to Schedule of Regulations.
   1.   All dwelling units and occupied buildings shall be served with a public
water supply system and a public sanitary sewer system.
   2.   Lot Area and Density. Every lot or parcel of land occupied by a low
density multiple-family structure shall contain a minimum of twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet and a total area of not less than the following:
 
Unit Type                Lot Area Dwelling Unit
Efficiency               4,800 square feet
One Bedroom              6,000 square feet
Two Bedroom              6,700 square feet
Every Additional Bedroom 1,300 square feet
 
   3.   Lot Area and Density. Every lot or parcel of land occupied by a medium
density multiple-family dwelling structure shall contain a minimum area of
three (3) acres and a total area of not less than the following:
 
Unit Type                Lot Area Dwelling Unit
Efficiency               1,900 square feet
One Bedroom              2,300 square feet
Two Bedroom              3,000 square feet
Every Additional Bedroom 700 square feet
 
   4.   Distance between Buildings. In addition to the required setbacks from
property boundaries, the following minimum distances shall be required between
each multiple family structure:
      a.   Where buildings are front to front or front to rear, three (3) times
the height of the taller building, and not less than seventy (70) feet.
      b.   Where buildings are side to side, one and one-half (1.5) times the
height of the taller building, but not less than twenty (20) feet.
      c.   Where buildings are front to side, rear to side, or rear to rear,
two (2) times the height of the taller building but not less than thirty-five
(35) feet.
In applying the above standards, the front of the building shall mean that the
face of the building having greatest length and contains the primary entrance
to the building; the rear is that face opposite the front. The side is the face
having the smallest dimension.
   5.   The minimum distance of any principal building from the ordinary high-
water mark shall be fifty (50) feet.
   6.   Driveways to single family dwellings shall be located in the greater
side yard setback.
   7.   The minimum floor area of dwelling units shall be as follows:
Type of Dwelling Total Usable Floor Area (sq. ft.)
Type of Dwelling              Total Usable Floor Area (sq. ft.)
One Family                    1,000
One Family (Cottage Lot)      800
Two-Family, per dwelling unit 800
Multiple Family:
Efficiency Unit               600
1 bedroom unit                800
2 bedroom unit                1,000
3 bedroom unit                1,200
4 bedroom unit                1,400
Each additional bedroom       100
 
   8.   Decks and porches are conditionally allowed within the front setback
area if they are not supported by a permanent foundation. A land use permit is
required, and approval is made on a case-by-case basis (see Sections
3.4.13 and
3.4.1). Existing nonconforming decks and porches may be replaced without a land
use permit provided the replacement is of the same size and in the same
location.
   9.    No residential or commercial building shall be built of steel exterior
wall construction.
   10.    The minimum front yard setback for construction in the R-1 District
shall be anywhere between the least front setback and the greatest front
setback of the existing residences found on the block-frontage unless the
difference between the least and greatest is more than ten (10) feet. In such
case, the minimum front yard setback shall be within three (3) feet of the
median of the front setbacks for all residences found on the block-frontage.
Where there are no existing residences along the block- frontage, the minimum
front yard setback shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
   11.    For a cottage lot, as defined in this Ordinance, Design Review is
required prior to issuance of land use permits and includes submission of
residential development plan as described in Section
3.4.1 (4).
   12.    Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for residential, single-family dwelling is 5.
4.11.2 Land Division Act –Refer to General Code of Ordinances, Chapter 63,
Section 1-8.
 
***** ARTICLE 5: GENERAL & SPECIAL PROVISIONS *****
Sec. 5.1 INTENT
The intent of this Article is to provide for those regulations which generally
apply regardless of the particular zoning district and to those special land
uses which may be permitted in certain zoning districts.
Sec. 5.2 CLUSTER HOUSING OPTION
The cluster housing option may be applied for as a special land use in R-1, R-
2 and R-3 Districts subject to the standards set forth in Section
3.3, Special Land Uses, and this Section.
5.2.1. Intent.
The intent of the cluster housing option is to permit the development of
single-family residential patterns which, through design innovation, will:
allow greater flexibility; encourage a more creative approach to the
development of single-family residential areas; encourage a more efficient,
aesthetic, and desirable use of the land;
   •provide a more desirable living environment through the preservation and
conservation of natural features such as topography, wetlands, woodlands,
bodies of water, and other natural assets; and encourage the provision of open
space so that benefits may accrue directly to the residents of the development
or the community as a whole.
5.2.2. Qualification of Parcels.
The parcel must be located in a district zoned for residential use and must
meet one (1) or more of the following characteristics listed below. Requests
for qualification under these conditions must be supported by documented
evidence supplied by the applicant in either narrative or graphic form.
Parcel Characteristics Qualifications:
   1.    The parcel contains natural assets which would be preserved through
the use of cluster development. Such assets may include natural stands of large
trees, land which serves as a natural habitat for wildlife, wetlands, bodies of
water, unusual topographic features, or other natural assets which should be
preserved. Requests for qualification under these conditions must be supported
by documented evidence.
   2.    The parcel contains major topographic conditions which would require
mass grading resulting in loss of significant natural features.
   3.   The parcel contains substantial portions of flood plain and wetlands. A
flood plain and wetlands map indicating the extent of the wetlands and flood
plain area shall be submitted to the Planning Commission in order to support
the proposal for the parcel’s qualification for cluster development.
   4.   The parcel, due to its size or shape, cannot be reasonably developed as
a conventional subdivision or site condominium development.
5.2.3. Site Design Requirements.
All cluster developments submitted under this option shall conform to the
following site design requirements:
   1.   Development is permitted as either attached or detached dwelling units,
provided the number of attached units shall not exceed twenty (20%) percent of
the total number of units allowed within the R-1 District.
Open space. When completed, the development shall have twenty (20%) percent of
the gross acreage in the development devoted to open space, which shall remain
in its natural state and/or be restricted to active and/or passive outdoor
recreational purposes. Dedication of open space shall comply with the standards
set forth in Section
5.3. Designated open space shall include area within any greenbelts required by
Sections
5.2.3.3 and
5.2.3.4, subject to the restrictions contained herein.
   2.   The computation of designated open space shall not include: rights-of-
way or easements designated for road purposes; areas within the minimum
setbacks of a dwelling unit; land which is under water (lakes, streams, water
courses, and other similar bodies of water); any area to be improved into a
lake or pond; and/or more than twenty- five (25) percent of the area of
regulated wetlands.
   3.   Greenbelt Adjacent and Parallel to Public Streets. In addition to any
required minimum setback specified in Section
5.2.3.6, a greenbelt, the minimum width as set forth below, shall be required
along any adjacent public street. The greenbelt shall be measured from the
street right-of-way. The Village, at its discretion, may permit either
reductions or variations in width of the greenbelt taking into consideration
topographic and/or other natural resource conditions, density of existing
vegetation to be preserved, and size and shape of the development site.
   4.   Transition from Adjacent Parcels: In order to provide an orderly
transition for access and density between the proposed development and adjacent
areas when a cluster development abuts a single-family residential district,
the Planning Commission, at its discretion, may require one or more of the
following measures: location of streets to meet up with adjacent streets, an
area or row of lots of comparable size as the neighboring residential lots,
designation of open space along the common boundaries, and/or screening in
accordance with the requirements of Section
6.2.4 of this Ordinance.
The following minimum greenbelt from adjacent public streets shall be applied:
 
Minimum Width of Greenbelt from Adjacent Public Streets
District In Feet
R-1      50
R-2      50
R-3      75
 
   1.   Transition from Adjacent Parcels. In order to provide an orderly
transition of density when a cluster development abuts a single-family
residential district of equal or lower density, the Planning Commission, at its
discretion, may require one (1) or more of the following measures: designation
of open space along the common boundaries; screening in accordance with the
requirements of Section
6.2.4; and/or an area or row of lots of commensurate size as neighboring
residential lots.
   2.    Density. The number of dwelling units within any development permitted
hereunder shall not exceed the number of dwelling units permitted in the Zoning
District in which the proposed development is located without application of
the cluster housing option. The applicant must submit a concept plan that
illustrates a site layout without the cluster option and all applicable
ordinances and laws observed.
   3.   Setbacks. Minimum setback requirements are established in a manner
which permits variation in the siting of individual dwelling units in order to
encourage creativity in design and compatibility with natural resource
features. The minimum setback requirements for each dwelling unit shall be
shown on the site plan as follows:
      a.   In the case of single-family detached dwellings, the following
minimum setbacks shall be applied:
 
Minimum Yard Setbacks Pet Unit (in Feet)
         Front and Rear   Side
District Front Rear Total Least Total
R-1      20    30   55    5     15
R-2      20    30   55    5     15
R-3      20    30   55    5     15
 
      b.   In the case of single-family attached dwellings, the following
minimum setbacks shall be required:
 
Minimum Setback (in Feet)
District From Internal Drives & Streets From Perimeter Property Boundaries
R-1      20                             50
R-2      20                             50
R-3      20                             50
 
      c.   In the case of single-family attached dwellings, the minimum
distance between buildings shall comply with Section
4.11.1.4.
   4.    Required Street Frontage. Any cluster lot contained within a cluster
lot development shall have frontage on and direct access to a public street
which has been accepted for maintenance by the Village. The extent of street
frontage shall be determined by the Village, in its discretion, taking into
consideration topographic and/or other natural resource considerations, size
and shape of the development site, and public safety factors.
Sec. 5.3 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION
5.3.1 Whenever the preservation of open space is required by this Ordinance,
the applicant shall provide a demonstrated means that all open space portions
of the development will be maintained in the manner approved. Documents shall
be presented that bind all successors and future owners in fee title to
commitments made as a part of the proposal. This provision shall not prohibit a
transfer of ownership or control, provided notice of such transfer is provided
to the Village and the land uses continue as approved in the open space
community plan. The dedicated open space shall be set aside by the applicant
through an irrevocable conveyance that is found acceptable to the Village
Attorney, such as:
   1.   Recorded deed restrictions.
   2.   Covenants that run perpetually with the land,
   3.   Conservation easements
5.3.2. Such conveyance shall assure that the open space will be protected from
all forms of development, except as shown on an approved site plan, and shall
never be changed to another use. Such conveyance shall:
   1.   Indicate the proposed allowable use(s) of the dedicated open space.
   2.   Demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Village that dedicated open
space shall be maintained.
   3.   Provide standards for scheduled maintenance of the open space.
   4.   Provide for maintenance to be undertaken by the Village in the event
that the dedicated open space is inadequately maintained or is determined by
the Village to be a public nuisance, with the assessment of costs upon property
owners within the proposed development.
Sec. 5.4 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
5.4.1. Requirements Applicable to Accessory Buildings.
   1.   The following requirements shall apply to accessory buildings and
structures. However, these requirements shall not apply to temporary or
portable accessory buildings or structures located on the premises for less
than seventy-two (72) hours during any thirty (30) day period.
   2.   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall conform to all setback and height regulations of this
Ordinance and building codes applicable to main buildings.
   3.   The sum total floor area of all accessory buildings and structures
shall not exceed fifty (50%) per cent of the total floor area of all stories of
the principal building.
   4.   Accessory buildings and structures shall be included in lot coverage
limitations.
   5.   The sum total floor area of all detached accessory buildings and
structures shall not exceed twenty-five (25%) per cent of the total required
and non-required rear yard area.
   6.   Within the R-1, R-2, R-3 and MHP Districts, the maximum height of
detached accessory buildings and structures shall be limited to the height of
the principal structure or twenty-four (24) feet, whichever is less.
   7.   No living quarters may be placed in a detached accessory building or
structure.
   8.   In no instance shall an accessory building or structure be located
within a dedicated easement or right-of-way.
   9.   A building or structure not attached to a principal building shall be
considered a detached accessory building or structure.
   10.    Detached accessory structures shall be erected only in a rear yard.
If the lot is a corner lot, accessory structures shall remain behind all
building lines adjacent to streets. In MHP districts, structures must be placed
in the rear half of the lot.
   11.   No detached accessory building or structure shall be constructed
within ten (10) feet of any other building located on the same lot or parcel.
   12.    Accessory buildings and structures located in rear yards shall not be
closer than ten (10) feet to any rear or side lot line except as stated
otherwise in this section. In R-1 districts, they shall not be closer than five
(5) feet to any rear or side lot line. In C- MU, G-MU, CBD, AND MHP districts,
they shall not be closer than three (3) feet to any rear or side lot line. All
accessory buildings and structures shall not be located closer than three (3)
feet to a public easement.
   13.    Accessory structures shall be subject to all applicable building code
regulations of the Village of Lexington. No building shall be built of steel
exterior wall construction except for prefabricated sheds less than 100 SF in
all districts except I-MU, AG, and MHP.
   14.    Shoreline/Water Protection Areas, Section 6.1.4.
      a.   Any accessory storage building lakeward of the crest of the bluff or
slope shall not exceed 200 square feet, a maximum height of 12 feet, a minimum
side setback of 10 feet and must be landward of 582 DAVD 88 (USACE, OHWM, 581.5
IGLD 85). Only one accessory storage building is permitted.
      b.   Any accessory structures such as ground level observation deck, an
open or screened seating pavilion/gazebo building lakeward of the crest of the
bluff or slope shall not exceed 200 square feet, a maximum height of 12 feet, a
minimum side setback of 15 feet and must be landward of 582 NAVD 88 (USACE,
OHMW, 581.5 IGLD 85). Only one structure such as a ground level observation
deck, an open or screened seating pavilion/ gazebo building is permitted.
   15.    The placement and use of any cargo container as an accessory building
or structure is prohibited. For the purposes of this subsection, a cargo
container shall be defined as a reusable vessel that was originally designed
for or used in the packing, shipping, movement or transportation of freight,
articles, goods, or commodities, which is capable of being mounted or moved by
rail, truck or ship, including any other portable containers or pods used for
storage with similar appearance and characteristics of cargo containers. This
provision shall not apply to the temporary use of storage containers for
construction activities on properties with an active building permit.
5.4.2. Private swimming pools shall be subject to the following:
   1.   No portion of the swimming pool or associated structures shall be
permitted to encroach upon any easement or right-of-way which has been granted
for public utility use.
   2.   In the case of waterfront lots, swimming pools may be located within
the front yard, but shall comply with the required front yard setback. On all
other lots, swimming pools shall not be allowed within the front yard.
Placement of swimming pools in a side yard shall comply with required side yard
setbacks specified for the zoning district wherein the pool is located. Rear
yard setbacks shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet.
   3.   All swimming pools shall be enclosed in accordance with applicable
Building Codes.
5.4.3. Requirements Applicable to Accessory Buildings Within All Other
Districts:
Accessory buildings shall be subject to the same placement and height
requirements to principal structures in the District in which located if not
regulated by Section
5.4.1.
Sec. 5.5 EMERGENCY TEMPORARY DWELLINGS
5.5.1. When permitted.
Emergency temporary dwellings may be permitted upon a finding by the Village
that the principal residential structure has been destroyed in whole or in part
by fire, explosion or natural disaster and therefore is uninhabitable and the
standards set forth herein have been met.
5.5.2. Permit application and review.
   1.   An application for a permit for the emergency temporary use and
installation of a mobile home, modular, or prefabricated dwelling unit shall be
made to the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a
plot plan showing the location of the proposed structure.
   2.   The application shall be reviewed by a committee composed of the Zoning
Administrator and two elected Village Council members, other than the Zoning
Administrator. Approval of the application may be granted by a majority vote of
the committee upon a finding that all of the following conditions are met:
      a.   The principal residential structure has been destroyed in whole or
in part by fire, explosion, or natural disaster and therefore is uninhabitable.
      b.    The temporary dwelling unit will be connected to public sewer and
water.
      c.   The temporary dwelling unit complies with all applicable Zoning
District requirements including setback, area, bulk, and other requirements,
except minimum house size requirements.
   3.   The granting of a permit for an emergency temporary dwelling unit shall
be for a period of up to one (1) year from the date of approval by the
committee. Any conditions of approval shall be specified in writing on the
permit.
   4.    To guarantee compliance with the provisions of the ordinance and
removal of the emergency temporary dwelling upon expiration of the permit, the
Village Council may require a cash bond to be posted prior to the issuance of a
permit.
Sec. 5.6 BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
5.6.1. Purpose.
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to advance the interest of public
health, safety and general welfare as related to the exterior of buildings by:
   1.   Stabilizing and reinforcing property values to protect private and
public investment, reverse area declines and upgrade building quality.
   2.   Promoting the renovation of existing buildings and neighborhoods in
order to preserve and reinforce their natural, historic, cultural, social, and
architectural qualities.
   3.   Encouraging the enhancement and maintenance of the economic vitality
and character of the city.
   4.   Ensuring that new projects are compatible with the character of the
surrounding area.
5.6.2. Standards.
The zoning administrator shall determine whether the standards of this section
are met and shall have discretion to forward the matter to the planning
commission for final determination.
5.6.3. Existing Sites.
Existing buildings and structures undergoing alteration, change in use or
expansion shall be brought into reasonable compliance with the minimum
standards of this section.
5.6.4. Non-Residential, Mixed Use and Multiple-Family Residential Buildings.
The following design standards apply to all non-single-family residential
buildings and structures, including upper level residential in any district:
   1.   Materials and colors.
      a.   The following exterior finish materials shall be required for walls
visible from streets or an adjacent residential district:
         i.   Primary Materials must be used to compose a minimum of 75% of
wall area of the building base and 50% of wall area for the upper floors.
         ii.   Secondary Materials are allowed to compose a maximum of 25% of
wall area in the building base and 50% of wall area for the upper floors.
         iii.   The exterior finish materials shall consist of no more than
four (4) unique materials, excluding architectural detail, accent, or trim; and
balconies and railings. A change in color, pattern, or profile shall constitute
a unique material.
         Building Type
         Commercial, Mixed Use, Multiple Family Residential Industrial
         Institutional
Material Primary Secondary      Primary Secondary           Primary Secondary
                                       Building Type
                                       Commercial, Mixed Multiple Family
                                       Use,              Residential       Industrial
Material                               Institutional
                                       Primary Secondary Primary Secondary Primary Secondary
Masonry
   Brick (natural glazed)           X       X         X       X         X       X
   Stone (natural, synthetic)
   Terra Cotta
Concrete
   Cast- in- Place                  X       X                           X       X
   Precast
Siding
   Wood (natural, composite)                X         X       X
   Fiber Cement Board (e.g., Hardie
Panel)
Stucco (upper floors only)
   Traditional cementitious                                   X
   Synthetic EIFS
Architectural Metal Panel
   Insulated metal panel                    X                 X         X       X
   Composite metal panel
 
      b.   In addition to the permitted primary and secondary materials,
materials that may be used for architectural details, accent, or trim (not to
exceed 10% of the wall area) include:
         i.   Glass reinforced fiber cement
         ii.    Molded polyurethane
         iii.    Glass block
         iv.   Metal
         v.   Wood
      c.   Concrete masonry units (ground face, split face, burnished face) are
permitted for basement or foundation walls only and should not be visible above
the floor line of the ground floor.
      d.   The following exterior finish materials shall be prohibited: vinyl
siding; T1-11 and other plywood siding materials; porcelain or ceramic tile;
sheet metal or corrugated metal.
      e.   Building materials shall be durable, weather-resistant, rustproof,
and kept in good condition to meet the building code by the property owner or
tenant at all times.
      f.   The color of each facade material shall be harmonious with the color
of all other facade materials used on the same building and on adjacent
buildings and shall be in character with or improve the character of the
surrounding area. For the purposes of this chapter, colors are harmonious if
they are complementary in hue, tone, and intensity.
      g.   Balconies, railings, and porch structures shall be metal, wood,
glass, cast concrete or stone.
      h.   Storefront systems shall be primed and painted, or factory-finished
(anodized, powder-coated, clear coated, plated, or polished).
      i.   Structural elements that support signage shall be primed and
painted, or factory- finished (anodized, powder-coated, clear coated, plated,
or polished) and be complimentary to the selected storefront finish.
   2.   Building Features.
      a.   Pedestrian access. Buildings shall be designed to encourage
pedestrian access on primary frontages. There shall be a maximum distance of 50
feet between entrances on a primary frontage.
      b.   Balconies.
Balconies shall not be located within five feet of any common lot line and
shall not encroach into the public right-of-way.
         i.   Balconies may be a single level, or multiple balconies stacked
vertically for multiple stories.
         ii.   The balcony shall be enclosed by balustrades, railings, or other
means that block at least half of the view through them.
         iii.   The balcony support structure shall be integrated with the
building facade; separate columns or posts supporting any balcony from the
ground are prohibited.
      c.   Overhead loading doors. Overhead loading doors shall not face a
public street or residential district. The planning commission can waive this
requirement upon a determination that there is no reasonable alternative, it is
essential to the operation of the business, and the visual impact will be
moderated through use of building materials, architectural features, or
landscaping. This provision is not intended to regulate retail customer access;
however, overhead vehicular access doors facing a public street are
discouraged.
      d.   Awnings.
         i.   Facades may be supplemented by straight shed or domed awnings.
         ii.   Glass, steel, canvas, and other natural fabric awnings shall be
permitted, while slatted metal, vinyl, plastic and other synthetic awnings are
prohibited.
         iii.   The front extended edge of awnings shall be compatible in
height to others in the same block, but in no case shall be lower than eight
feet six inches above grade.
         iv.   Awnings shall be compatible in color to others in the same
block.
         v.   Back-lit and internally illuminated awnings shall be prohibited;
however directional down lighting is permitted for illumination of grade.
         vi.   Awnings shall be constructed so as to discourage harborage of
birds and their structural elements shall be primed and painted, anodized or
powder coated.
   3.   Waiver. The planning commission may waive the requirements of this
subsection if it finds that a proposed building design is in keeping with the
intent of this section and the recommendations of the master plan and meets all
of the following conditions:
      a.   It is determined to not be grossly dissimilar in exterior design and
appearance to nearby buildings and it does not adversely affect property values
in the surrounding area.
      b.   It does not adversely affect the desirability of immediate and
neighboring areas.
      c.   It does not impair the stability of the area or prevent the most
appropriate use and development of real estate.
      d.   It does not adversely affect the public health, safety, comfort, and
welfare of the citizens of the city.
      e.   A structure may be determined to be compatible in design and
appearance to other structures in the context in which it is to be located,
even if it does not comply with the above criteria, if it has other design
features that make it harmonious with other structures or improve the character
of the area in which it is located.
5.6.5. Single-Family Dwellings, Mobile Homes, Prefabricated Housing.
No single-family dwelling (site built), mobile home, modular housing, or
prefabricated housing located outside a mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision shall be permitted unless said dwelling unit conforms to the
following standards:
   1.   Square Footage. Each such dwelling unit shall comply with the minimum
square footage requirements of this Ordinance for the zone district in which it
is located.
   2.   Dimensions. Each such dwelling unit shall have a minimum width across
any front, side, or rear elevation of twenty (20) feet and shall comply in all
respects with the Building Code, including minimum heights for habitable rooms.
Where a dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal or state
standards or regulations for construction and where such standards or
regulations for construction are different than those imposed by the Michigan
State Construction Code Commission, then and in that event such federal or
state standard or regulation shall apply.
   3.   Foundation. Each such dwelling unit shall be firmly attached to a
permanent foundation constructed on the site in accordance with the Building
Code and shall have a wall of such dimensions to adequately support the
dwelling. All dwellings shall be securely anchored to the foundation in order
to prevent displacement during windstorms.
   4.   Undercarriage. Dwelling units shall not be installed with attached
wheels. Additionally, no dwelling shall have any exposed towing mechanism,
undercarriage, or chassis.
   5.   Sewage Disposal or Water Supply. Each such dwelling unit shall be
connected to public sewer and water.
   6.   Storage Area. Each such dwelling unit shall contain a storage
capability area either in a basement located under the dwelling, in an attic
area, or in a separate or attached structure of standard construction similar
to or of better quality than the principal dwelling, which storage area shall
be equal to ten (10%) percent of the square footage of the dwelling or one
hundred (100) square feet, which ever shall be less.
   7.   Articulation .
      a.   The rhythm established in the neighborhood through the existing
architectural elements shall be maintained. Building setback and roof lines
shall generally match the established pattern of buildings on adjacent
properties to maintain the existing street wall patterns and design. The
elements considered for the purposes of this standard shall include, but not be
limited to, frequency and spacing of windows and doorways.
      b.   The front elevation of single-family detached dwelling units shall
not recur in the same or a substantially similar structural form on another
dwelling within the same block-frontage, without there being at least three
other dwellings with a different building elevation between the dwellings that
repeat the front elevation. Different colors alone will not constitute
different front elevations.
   8.   Materials.
      a.   The facade materials used are not grossly dissimilar to the
materials typically found in the surrounding neighborhood, including, but not
limited to, roof pitch, materials, architectural style and details and
fenestration. Brick may be used as an acceptable building material in
neighborhoods where it is not typically found.
      b.   The exterior colors of the dwelling are compatible with the colors
of dwellings typically found in the surrounding neighborhood. Bright or
contrasting colors may be used on trim only.
   9.   Roof. The roof pitch of the dwelling shall be comparable to or greater
than the roof pitch of dwellings typically found in the surrounding
neighborhood.
   10.   Porch. Each residential unit with a separate entrance shall include a
porch:
      a.   A porch shall be between 7 feet and 9 feet deep that projects no
more than 7 feet into the dooryard and with a width of not less than 65% of
each unit with a separate entrance.
      b.   Where the first floor is occupied by a lobby, office, or common
space and no dwelling are located on the first floor along the front of the
building, then a stoop or porch is not required.
   11.   Garage.
      a.   A garage shall be located no closer to the front property line than
the garages of dwellings typically found in the surrounding neighborhood.
      b.   A front-facing garage either attached or detached and similarly
sited as the facade along the front setback may not exceed 50% of the front
facade.
   12.    Entrance.
      a.   At least one entry must face onto and connect to the primary street.
      b.   Secondary entries are permitted from the side or rear.
      c.   A recessed entry shall not exceed 5 feet.
   13.    Additions. Each such dwelling unit shall contain no addition or room
or other area which is not constructed with similar quality workmanship as the
original structure, including permanent attachment to the principal structure
and construction of a foundation as required herein.
   14.    Code Compliance. Each such dwelling unit shall comply with all
pertinent building and fire codes. In the case of a mobile home, all
construction and all plumbing, electrical apparatus, and insulation within and
connected to said mobile home shall be of a type and quality conforming to the
"Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards" as promulgated by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development, being 24 CFR 3280, and as
from time to time such standards may be amended or superseded. Additionally,
all dwellings shall meet or exceed all applicable roof snow load and strength
requirements.
Building Permit. All construction required herein shall be commenced only after
a building permit has been obtained in accordance with the applicable Building
Code provisions and requirements.
   16.   Waivers. The Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator may waive the
requirements of this subsection if it finds that a proposed building design and
the materials are in keeping with the intent of this section and the
recommendations of the master plan.
   17.   Exceptions. The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home
located in a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by state
or federal law or otherwise specifically required in this Ordinance and
pertaining to such parks. Mobile homes which do not conform to the standards of
this section shall not be used for dwelling purposes within the Village unless
located within a mobile home park or a mobile home subdivision district for
such uses, or unless used as a temporary residence as otherwise provided in
this Ordinance.
Sec. 5.7 MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS
The Mobile Home Code, as established by the Mobile Home Commission and the
Michigan Department of Public Health Rules under the authority of the Mobile
Home Commission Act, Public Act 96, as amended, regulates development of mobile
home parks. All mobile home parks must be constructed according to the
standards of the Code. In addition to the rules and standards of the State of
Michigan, The Village of Lexington imposes the following conditions:
5.7.1. Mobile Home Parks shall be constructed, licensed, operated, and managed
in accordance with the provisions of the Mobile Home Commission Act, Act 96 of
1987, as amended, and subsequently adopted rules and regulations governing
mobile home parks.
5.7.2. Mobile Home Parks shall not be permitted on parcels less than ten (10)
acres in size.
5.7.3. Individual mobile home sites within a mobile home park shall have a
minimum lot size of 4,500 square feet per mobile home being served. This 4,500
square foot minimum may be reduced by twenty (20%) percent, provided that the
individual site shall be equal to at least 3,600 square feet. For each square
foot of land gained through this reduction of the site below 4,500 square feet,
an equal amount of land shall be dedicated as open space. In no case shall the
open space requirements be less than that required under R125.1946, Rule 946 of
the Michigan Administrative Code.
5.7.4. The on-site storage of boat trailers, boats, camping units, horse
trailers and similar recreational equipment shall be prohibited on mobile home
sites and in designated open space areas. The mobile home park may provide,
within the confines of the park, a common outdoor storage area for the storage
of the above-mentioned equipment.
5.7.5. Mobile home parks shall be landscaped as follows:
   1.   If the mobile home park abuts an existing residential development, the
park shall be required to provide screening along the park boundary abutting
the residential development.
   2.   If the park abuts a non-residential development, the park need not
provide screening.
   3.   In all cases, however, a park shall provide screening along the park
boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
The landscaping shall consist of evergreen trees or shrubs a minimum three (3’)
feet in height which are spaced so they provide a continuous screen at
maturity. Alternative screening devices may be utilized if they conceal the
mobile home park as effectively as the required landscaping described above.
5.7.6. Mobile Home Lots (individual) shall be landscaped as follows:
   1.   Small shrubbery and flowers and/or flowerpots are allowed. Any/all
shrubbery, flowers, the lawn etc. must be maintained by the tenant.
   2.   The planting of a tree requires an approval from the environmental
committee of the Village of Lexington for location as well as species. Miss Dig
must be called prior to the placement of a tree. If the tenant fails to phone,
and/all damage to underground utilities shall be the sole responsibility of the
tenant.
   3.   Hardscape landscaping in the park i.e. Driveways, sidewalks, paver
paths and paver or concrete patios are permitted only with a Land Use Permit
and an approved site plan.
   4.   Prior any digging or prep work for landscaping Miss Dig must be called
to identify all underground utilities. If the tenant fails to phone, and damage
to underground utilities occurs it shall be the sole responsibility of the
tenant.
   5.   Dumping of any refuse over the bluff is prohibited.
   6.   The unoccupied portion of the lot after setting the home shall not
exceed fifteen percent (15%) hardscape materials, such as concrete, pavers or
gravel.
5.7.7.Mobile Home Parks shall be subject to a preliminary site plan review per
the requirements and in accordance with PA 96 of 1987, as amended.
5.7.8.A permit shall not be required for the construction or erection of
canopies or awnings which are open on three (3) sides. A Land Use Permit and a
building permit shall be required Village of Lexington Zoning Ordinance before
the construction of erection of any screened, glassed-in, or otherwise enclosed
awning or canopy attached to the mobile. The setback requirement for enclosed
and attached structures from an adjacent hardwall is ten (10) feet.
5.7.9. Setback requirements:
 
District    Front          Side           Rear               Other
Mobile Home 10 feet to the IO feet to the 4 feet to the rear
            street         next mobile    P/L
Sheds       10 feet to the 4 feet to the  4 feet to the rear Not to exceed 80
            street         next mobile    P/L                sq. ft.
                                                             On double frontage
            10 feet to the 4 feet to the  4 feet to the rear lots: front 10 ft.
Deck        street         next mobile    P/L                from the street; 4
                                                             ft. from the
                                                             street.
Club House  25 feet        10 feet        15 feet            Height: not to
                                                             exceed 35 ft.
 
5.7.10. General Provisions:
   1.   Obstructions – there shall be no obstructions of any form within ten
(10) feet of the adjacent mobile home, including an attached structure that may
be used for living space.
   2.   Mobile homes must be kept in a well-maintained condition. The lot shall
be kept neat, mowed, and clear of all debris.
   3.   The storage of flammable, combustible or hazardous material is
expressly forbidden. The use of ancillary propane fuel, fuel oil or kerosene
heaters in the mobile is prohibited. Propane cylinders for outdoor grills are
allowed.
   4.   Air conditioners must be in working order and free of rust, loose
covers, and faulty connections. All window units must be self-supported.
   5.   No outdoor aerials or towers are permitted. Satellite dishes and
digital antennas up to twenty-four inches (24") in diameter and attached to the
mobile are permissible.
   6.   No windows or doors should be covered with foil, paper, cardboard, or
metal.
   7.   Free-standing steps must be constructed of pre-cast concrete, vented
fiberglass, metal, or treated lumber and must include handrails. A permit is
required for new/or replacement steps. Steps installed in conjunction with a
new set up are included in the original permit.
   8.    Ice and snow removal from sidewalks and driveways is the sole
responsibility of the tenant.
   9.   Decks and porches must be of a design approved by the Village and shall
include a handrail. A permit is required.
   10.   Screened-in porches must be factory installed and readily removable. A
permit is required.
   11.   A temporary canopy may be erected for recreational use only. It may
not be used for a sleeping area. The canopy must be removed when the tenants
are not in residence.
   12.   Children’s swing sets are not permitted.
   13.   Skirting is required on all mobiles. The skirting may be of aluminum
or vinyl and must be installed within 30 days of the installation of the
mobile.
   14.   Spray painting of mobile homes or accessory buildings may only be done
by insured contractors and requires a Village permit. Contractor is liable for
any damage due to overspray.
   15.   Renovations or repairs requiring a permit (building, electrical,
mechanical, plumbing) must be performed to meet Construction Code under
Michigan Construction Act as administered by Sanilac County.
   16.    Campfires shall be in an enclosed fire pit which must have a lid and
be a minimum of four feet (4’) from any mobile. There shall be no open fires.
Fireworks are not allowed anywhere in the Park.
   17.   Fencing is not permitted on mobile home lots.
Sec. 5.8 DAY CARE FACILITIES
5.8.1. Intent.
It is the intent of this section to establish standards for day care facilities
which will ensure compatibility with adjacent land uses and maintain the
character of the neighborhood.
5.8.2. Application of Regulations.
   1.   A State licensed Family Day Care Home shall be considered a residential
use of property and a permitted use in all residential districts. Family Day
Care Homes shall be prohibited in all other districts.
   2.   The Village Council may, by issuance of a special land use permit,
authorize the establishment of Group Day Care Homes and Day Care Centers as
specified in District regulations and subject to the standards herein.
5.8.3. Standards for Group Day Care Homes.
Group Day Care Homes shall be considered as special land use subject to the
requirements and standards of Section
3.3 and the following additional standards:
   1.   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for the
zoning district in which it is located.
   2.   The property is maintained in a manner that is consistent with the
character of the neighborhood.
   3.   There shall be an outdoor play area of at least five hundred (500)
square feet provided on the premises. Said play area shall not be located
within the front yard setback. This requirement may be waived by the Planning
Commission if a public play area is within five hundred (500) feet of the
subject parcel.
   4.   All outdoor play areas shall be enclosed by a fence that is designed to
discourage climbing and is at least four (4) feet in height, but no higher than
six (6) feet.
   5.   The hours of operation do not exceed sixteen (16) hours within a
twenty-four (24) hour period. Activity between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. shall be limited so that the drop-off and pick-up of children is not
disruptive to neighboring residents.
   6.   One (1) off-street parking space per employee not a member of the Group
Day Care Home family shall be provided.
   7.   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be maintained.
5.8.4. Standards for Day Care Centers.
Day Care Centers shall be considered as a special land use subject to the
requirements and standards of Section
3.3 and the following standards:
   1.   The Day Care Center shall be served by public sewer and water.
   2.   A separate drop-off and pick-up area shall be provided adjacent to the
main building entrance, located off of a public street and the parking access
lane, and shall be of sufficient size so as to not create congestion on the
site or within a public roadway.
   3.    Off-street parking shall be provided at a rate of one (1) space per
employee plus one space for every five (5) children enrolled at the facility.
   4.   There shall be an outdoor play area of at least 1,000 square feet
provided on the premises. Said play area shall not be located within the front
setback. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Commission if public
play area is available five hundred (500) feet from the subject parcel.
   5.   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be maintained.
Sec. 5.9ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILTIES
5.9.1. Intent.
It is the intent of this section to establish standards for adult foster care
facilities which will ensure compatibility with adjacent land uses and maintain
the character of the neighborhood.
5.9.2. Application of Regulations.
   1.   A State licensed Adult Foster Care Small Group Home serving six (6)
persons or less and Adult Foster Care Family Home shall be considered a
residential use of property and a permitted use in all residential districts.
   2.   The Village may, by issuance of a special land use permit, authorize
the establishment of Adult Foster Care Small Group Homes serving more than six
(6) persons and Adult Foster Care Large Group Homes in the following zoning
districts: R-1, R-2, R-3, and MHP. Such facilities shall be prohibited in all
other districts.
   3.   The Village may, by issuance of a special land use permit, authorize
the establishment of an Adult Foster Care Congregate Facility in the following
zoning districts: R-2, R-3, and MHP. Such facilities shall be prohibited in all
other districts.
5.9.3. Standards for Adult Foster Care Small Group Homes serving more than six
(6) persons and Adult Foster Care Large Group Homes. Such homes shall be
considered as special land use subject to the requirements and standards of
Section
3.3 and the following additional standards:
   1.   A site plan, prepared in accordance with Section
3.4, shall be required to be submitted.
   2.   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for the
zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum site area
of 1,500 square
   3.    feet per adult, excluding employees and/or care givers.
   4.   The property is maintained in a manner that is consistent with the
character of theneighborhood.
   5.   One (1) off-street parking space per employee and/or caregiver shall be
provided.
   6.   In its sole discretion, the Village may determine that landscape
screening in accordance with Section
6.2.4 is required.
   7.   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be maintained.
5.9.4. Standards for Adult Foster Care Congregate Facilities.
Such facilities shall be considered as a special land use subject to the
requirements and standards of Section
3.3 and the following standards:
   1.   A site plan, prepared in accordance with Section
3.4, shall be required to be submitted.
   2.   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for the
zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum site area
of 1,500 square feet per adult, excluding employees and/or caregivers.
   3.   Parking requirements as required for convalescent homes and similar
facilities, set forth in Article 10 shall be met.
   4.   All landscape requirements set forth in Section
6.2 shall be met.
   5.   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be maintained.
Sec. 5.10 HOME OCCUPATIONS
5.10.1. Definitions:
Home Occupation. An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is clearly a
customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and
which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential
character of the neighborhood.
Home Occupation Major: A Home Occupation as defined herein that may be apparent
to the neighbors by virtue of activities on site, signage, outdoor storage or
modification to the structure or grounds.
Home Occupation Minor: A Home Occupation as defined herein that under normal
circumstances, other than a sign as described in this ordinance is not apparent
to the neighbors.
5.10.2. General Provisions:
It is the policy of the Village to encourage entrepreneurship and a reasonable
degree of activity within residential areas during normal business hours. Such
activity contributes to the vitality of the community. However, excessive
commercial activity, such as traffic, odors, deliveries, and signage, within a
neighborhood may undermine its residential character. The intent of this
section is to establish reasonable standards to regulate home occupation
activities that are compatible with the residential character of a
neighborhood.
5.10.3. Minor Home Occupations:
   1.   Must be conducted entirely within a residential building and must not
be evident in any way from the street or from any neighboring property.
   2.   Must not change the character of the building in which it is conducted
and must not constitute, create, or increase a nuisance.
   3.   Must be carried on only by the inhabitants of the dwelling.
   4.   Must only employ mechanical equipment, which is similar in power, type
and use for ordinary household purposes or hobbies.
   5.   Must not generate noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, heat, or glare which
are detectable beyond the property lines. Furthermore, the home business shall
not create any electrical interference with the transmission of television,
cellular, wireless service or radio in the area which exceeds that which is
normally produced by a residential dwelling unit in the district.
   6.   Must provide sufficient solid waste receptacles of a residential nature
sufficiently screened and maintained so the property is free from debris.
   7.   Must not devote more than twenty percent (20%) of the principal
residence for use of the home business.
   8.   Must not require parking spaces in excess of two (2) spaces, located in
the driveway or on the street, directly adjacent to the property.
   9.   Must not generate vehicle trips in excess of ten (10) trips per day.
   10.   May have one (1) sign attached to the front wall of the principal
building not to exceed two (2) square feet in area, and not be lighted.
   11.   On site merchandise or business shall be limited to:
      a.   Items commonly traded, collected or occasionally bought and sold by
hobbyists (i.e. antiques, stamps, coins, comics, etc.) but not including
automobiles or firearms.
      b.   Crafts and artistic products.
      c.   Low volume businesses such as CPA, Law Office, Financial Planning,
etc.
5.10.4. Major Home Occupation:
A home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling or approved
accessory structure, as defined herein, and shall not involve any alteration of
the structure or change in the character thereof. Home occupation shall satisfy
the following conditions:
   1.    The operator of a proposed home occupation shall attach an operational
plan for the home occupation to the application for a Special Land Use Permit.
The operational plan shall provide the following information:
      a.   Hours of operation
      b.   Number of employees and description of employee parking.
      c.   Site plan in accordance with the CLU requirements.
      d.   A description of any/all material used in the home occupation which
will be stored on the premises.
      e.   A description of the shipping and delivery requirements of the home
occupation.
      f.   Proposed signage – no illumination and attached to the front of the
principal residence, not to exceed two (2) square feet.
      g.   Provisions made for any additional refuse.
   2.   The on-site activities associated with the home occupation shall be
fully conducted within the personal residence or in an accessory structure of
the person engaging in the home occupation on the premises.
   3.   The activities of the home occupation shall be operated in such a
manner that other residents of the area, under normal circumstances, would not
be bothered by the existence of the home occupation.
   4.   In addition to the occupants of the residence, not more than two (2)
non-resident employees shall be employed at the home occupation.
   5.   The Planning Commission may establish limits on the outdoor storage,
size and parking of equipment or vehicles to preserve the residential character
of the neighborhood. No out-door storage of materials or scrap is permitted.
   6.   No more than one (1) automobile associated with the home occupation may
be parked on the street at any time. Any other parking shall be on the parcel
where the home occupation is taking place. Parking for no more than two (2)
vehicles may be constructed in addition to the area of the driveway in
existence prior to the establishment of the home occupation.
   7.   With the exception if material purchased over the counter for household
cleaning, lawn care, operation of a photocopy machine, paint, arts, and craft
generation of any hazardous waste as defined in P.A. 64 of 1979, as amended,
being the Hazardous Waste Management Act (MCL 229.433 et seq.) or use of
materials which are used in such quantity, or are otherwise required to be
registered pursuant to the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 29, Chapter XVII,
part 1910.2 (Department of Labor Regulations).
   8.   Any change in the nature or activities of a home-based business shall
be regarded as a new home occupation and shall require a new application.
   9.   Failure to fulfill the terms of the approved home occupation, the site
plan, and its attachments, shall be grounds for the revocation of the Planning
Commission approval of a home occupation.
5.10.5. All activities shall be carried on within an enclosed structure. There
shall be no outside display of any kind, or other external or visible evidence
of the conduct of a Home Occupation. An unanimated, non-illuminated wall sign
less than four (4) square feet is allowed provided a permit is granted.
5.10.6. There shall be no vehicular traffic permitted for the Home Occupation,
other than that which is normally generated for a single dwelling unit in a
residential area, both as to volume and type of vehicles. Off street parking is
required for any employees. Parking layout will be subject to lot size and
characteristics of the neighborhood.
5.10.7. Hours of operation will be stated in the special land use permit.
Sec. 5.11 SEASONAL SALES
The sale of Christmas trees, pumpkins, firewood, and other seasonal items shall
be considered temporary uses within any zoning district subject to the
conditions contained herein. All such sales shall be conducted in a manner so
as not to create a traffic hazard or a nuisance to neighboring properties.
Adequate parking and ingress and egress to the premises shall be provided. Upon
discontinuance of the seasonal use, any temporary structures shall be removed.
Signs shall conform to the provisions of the district in which the seasonal use
is located. A land use permit is required prior to operating a seasonal sales
business.
Sec. 5.12 GARAGE SALES, RUMMAGE SALES, & SIMILAR SERVICES
Garage sales, rummage sales, yard sales, moving sales, and similar activities
shall be considered temporary accessory uses within any residential zoning
district subject to the conditions contained herein. Any garage sale, rummage
sale, or similar activity shall be allowed with a permit for a period not to
exceed three (3) days twice within a calendar year. All such sales shall be
conducted in a manner so as not to create a traffic hazard or a nuisance to
neighboring properties. No signs advertising a garage sale or similar activity
shall be placed upon public property or right of way. Signs shall not be placed
more than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the sale and must be removed upon
completion of the sale. The sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
Sec. 5.13 ESSENTIAL SERVICES
Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the Village. The construction of buildings, but not storage
yards, associated with essential services shall be subject to the provisions of
Section
3.4, Site Plan Review. Otherwise, the construction, maintenance, and alteration
of essential services shall be exempt from the provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 5.14 SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES
Self-Storage facilities shall be located only in I-MU districts and are subject
to the following requirements and conditions:
5.14.1. No activity other than rental of storage units and the rental of
outside storage space for recreational vehicles shall be allowed. No
commercial, wholesale, retail, industrial or other business use on, or operated
from, the facility shall be allowed.
5.14.2. The storage of any toxic, explosive, corrosive, flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Fuel tanks on any motor vehicle, boat, lawn mower or
similar property will be drained or removed prior to storage. Batteries shall
be removed from vehicles before storage.
5.14.3. Other than the storage of recreational vehicles, all storage shall be
contained within a building. All recreational vehicle storage shall be screened
from the view of neighboring properties and public roads in accordance with
Section
6.2.
5.14.4. Exterior walls of the ends of all storage units shall be of masonry or
face-brick construction.
5.14.5. All storage units must be accessible by paved circular drives clearly
marked to distinguish traffic flow. A minimum thirty-six (36) foot space shall
be provided between buildings facing other buildings and a minimum of twenty
(20) feet space between the ends of buildings. Site circulation shall be
designed to accommodate fire trucks, as well as trucks that will customarily
access the site.
Sec. 5.15 OUTDOOR SALES & OPEN-AIR BUSINESSES
Outdoor sales for new and used automobiles, boats, mobile homes, farm machinery
and other vehicles and manufactured products and similar uses shall be subject
to the following provisions:
   1.   There shall be no strings of flags, pennants or bare light bulbs
permitted.
   2.   No vehicles or merchandise for sale shall be displayed within any
required front setback and shall adhere to the conditions imposed for the
district in which it is located.
   3.   There shall be no broadcast of continuous music or announcements over
any loudspeaker or public address system.
   4.    Open air businesses shall secure a land use permit and be controlled
by all the conditions imposed for the District in which it is located. Retail
sales are limited to plants and garden products not grown on site, lawn
furniture, playground equipment, and garden supplies. All seasonal sales of
this nature not secured in duration with a long-term lease requires a Peddlers
license issued by the Village of Lexington unless it is incidental to the
primary business and operated by the principal of the property.
Sec. 5.16 GENERAL, BUILDING & LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR’S OFFICES & YARDS
5.16.1. A contractor’s office building shall be of permanent construction.
Temporary construction trailers shall not be permitted to be occupied as the
office of the contractor. Outdoor storage shall be strictly and clearly
accessory to the contractor’s principal office use of the property. Only
products, materials and equipment owned and operated by the principal use shall
be permitted for storage.
5.16.2. Where allowed, outdoor storage shall not be located within the required
front yard. Such storage shall not be located in any required parking or
loading space.
5.16.3. Storage shall be screened from the view of public street, and adjacent
properties zoned either residential, commercial, or office. Screening measures
shall meet the Section
6.2.4 requirements.
5.16.4. The location and size of areas for storage, nature of items to be
stored therein, and details of the enclosure, including description of
materials, height, and typical elevation of the enclosure shall be provided as
part of the information submitted under Section 3.4, Site Plan Review.
Sec. 5.17 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS
Automobile service stations and washed shall be subject to the following
standards:
5.17.1. Separation shall be made between the pedestrian sidewalk and vehicular
parking and maneuvering areas with the use of curbs, wheel stops, greenbelts,
or traffic islands.
5.17.2. All activities related to vehicle washing, service and repair equipment
shall be entirely enclosed within a building.
5.17.3. Driveways shall be designed to accommodate the type and volume of
vehicular traffic using the site and located in a manner which is compatible
with uses located adjacent to and across from the site.
5.17.4. Inoperative or unlicensed vehicles shall not be stored outside for more
than seven days. Such storage shall not occur in front of the building front
line.
5.17.5. Vehicle sales shall not be permitted on the premises of any automobile
service station or wash.
5.17.6. Gas Stations/Convenience Stores shall be subject to the following
standards: All standards described in Section
5.17.1 through
5.17.5.
5.17.7. Gas station/Convenience Stores shall follow all of the provisions as
established in GC District regulations and are required to apply for and secure
Special Land Use Permit.
5.17.8. Gas stations/Convenience Stores are required to follow the State of
Michigan Standards – MDEQ regarding underground tanks, wiring, leak protection,
venting any and/or all requirements as established by the Department of
Environmental Quality.
5.17.9. Any/all merchandise within the Convenience Store shall be subject to
the licensing and approval of the State of Michigan.
5.17.10. The location shall be kept clean and orderly and shall follow all of
the zoning provisions as established in this Ordinance. These provisions
include, but are not limited to, parking, lighting, signage, storage and
outdoor display of goods for sale.
Sec. 5.18 OUTDOOR DISPLAYS OF PRODUCTS OR MATERIALS INTENDED FOR RETAIL SALE OR
RENTAL
5.18.1 . General Standards
   1.   An outdoor display shall be considered as an accessory to the principal
business use conducted on the premises.
   2.   An outdoor display facility shall be properly installed, stable and
maintained in a pleasingly orderly and clean condition. The zoning
administrator, as officer of the Village and with a full understanding of
community values, shall alone define, communicate, and enforce this standard.
   3.   The Village shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of
damage, theft or personal injury which may occur as a result of an outdoor
display.
   4.   In the administration of these provisions, the Zoning Administrator
shall be permitted to refer a request to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation where site conditions may create difficulty in adherence to the
standards contained herein.
   5.   Merchandise to be displayed is restricted only to merchandise that is
customarily sold on the premises by an established business on that lot.
   6.   All merchandise that is displayed must be brought back in at the close
of business each day.
5.18.2 . Standards Within CBD Districts.
   1.   An outdoor display may be located in front of or adjacent to the
establishment. An outdoor display that extends beyond the property lines of the
applicant shall require the permission of the affected property owners.
   2.   If an outdoor display is located on a public sidewalk, a minimum of
five (5) feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the sidewalk shall be
maintained. Sufficient room shall also be provided to allow car doors to open
along the curbside.
5.18.3 . Standards Within GC Districts.
   1.   An outdoor display may be located within any required yard but shall
not be located within any public road right of way. An outdoor display shall
not occupy or obstruct the use of any fire lane, required off-street parking or
landscaped area required to meet the requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
5.18.4 . Transient and Seasonal Sales.
   1.   Transient or seasonal sales may be located within any required yard but
shall not be located within any public road right of way.
   2.   Transient or seasonal sales shall not occupy or obstruct the use of any
fire lane, required off-street parking or landscaped area required to meet the
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
Sec. 5.19 SIDEWALK CAFE SERVICE
A sidewalk cafe service operated by a restaurant or other food establishment
which sells food or beverages for immediate consumption may be permitted in the
CBD, C-MU, G-MU, and GC Districts, subject to the following conditions:
5.19.1. An application depicting the location and layout of the cafe facility
shall be submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator. A permit shall
remain in effect unless the cafe fails to meet the standards contained herein.
5.19.2. A sidewalk cafe may be located in front of or adjacent to the
establishment. A sidewalk cafe that extends beyond the property lines of the
shall require the permission of the affected property owners.
5.19.3. If a sidewalk cafe is located on a public sidewalk, a minimum of five
(5) feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the sidewalk shall be
maintained.
5.19.4. A sidewalk cafe shall be allowed only during normal operating hours of
the establishment.
5.19.5. The exterior of the premises shall be kept clean, orderly, and
maintained or the permit may be revoked. All food preparation shall be inside
of the premises. except for outdoor grilling, which may be authorized by the
Zoning Administrator as part of the permit.
5.19.6. The Village shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of
damage, theft or personal injury which may occur as a result of a sidewalk cafe
operation.
5.19.7. All sidewalk cafes shall comply with applicable regulations of the
County Health Department and the State.
Sec. 5.20 BED & BREAKFAST ACCOMMODATIONS
5.20.1. Each premise must be operated by its owner.
5.20.2. The proposed use shall not cause a nuisance to adjoining residences due
to noise, odor, lighting, or traffic.
5.20.3. No bed and breakfast sleeping room shall be permitted that does not
comply with the construction code.
5.20.4. There shall be no cooking facilities in the rooms used for the bed and
breakfast stay.
5.20.5. The stay of bed and breakfast occupants shall be no more than fourteen
(14) consecutive days and not more than thirty (30) days in any one (1)
calendar year.
5.20.6. The operator of each facility shall keep a list of the names of all
persons staying at the bed and breakfast which list shall be available for
inspection by the Zoning Administrator.
5.20.7. One (1) bathroom for every three (3) sleeping rooms shall be provided,
with a minimum of two (2) bathrooms. All dwellings shall have a minimum of
3,000 square feet of living area.
5.20.8. One (1) parking space shall be provided off-street in the side or rear
yard area for each bed and breakfast bedroom.
Sec. 5.21MINERAL MINING & EXTRACTIVE OPERATIONS
5.21.1. Intent and Purpose.
It is the intent and purpose of this section to promote the underlying spirit
and intent of the entire Zoning Ordinance, but at the same time allow for the
extraction of minerals in locations where they have been naturally deposited,
and to ensure that mineral mining activity shall be compatible with adjacent
uses of land, the natural environment, and the capacities of public services
and facilities affected by the land use, and, to insure that mineral mining
activities are consistent with the public health, safety, and welfare of the
Village.
5.21.2. Use Restriction.
Mineral mining and extractive operations may be considered as a special land
use in the I-MU District. The extraction, removal, and/or processing of sand,
gravel, stone and/or other mineral mining in the Village shall be prohibited
unless first authorized by the grant of a special land use application by the
Village in accordance with this section, and Section
3.3.
5.21.3. Exemption.
Usual and customary land balancing by cutting and filling, in preparation for
immediately planned and approved development in accordance with this and all
other applicable ordinances and law, shall be exempted from the provisions of
this section.
5.21.4. Application.
An application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall include
the following:
   1.   Site plan prepared in accordance with Section
3.4;
   2.   Vertical aerial photograph, enlarged to a scale of one (1) inch equals
two hundred (200) feet, from original photograph flown at a negative scale no
smaller than one- inch equals six hundred sixty (660) feet. The date of the
aerial photograph shall be certified and shall have been flown at such time as
the foliage shall be off of on-site trees, provided, if there are changes in
the topography from the date of the photograph, an accompanying text shall be
provided explaining each change. The vertical photograph shall cover:
      a.   All land anticipated to be mined in the application, together with
adjoining land owned by the applicant.
      b.    All contiguous land which is or has been used by the owner or
leasehold applicant for mineral extraction and/or processing and/or storage,
and all contiguous (land) in which the applicant or any affiliate has a current
interest.
      c.   All lands within one-half (1/2) mile of the proposed mining area.
      d.   All private and public roads from which access to the property may
be immediately gained.
      e.   Boundary of the entire planned mining area by courses and distance.
      f.   Site topography and natural features including location of water
courses within the planned mining area.
      g.   Means of vehicular access to the proposed operation.
   3.   Duration of proposed operation, and location, timing, and any other
relevant details with respect to the phasing and progression of work on the
site;
   4.   Land use study/drawing showing the existing land uses with
specification of type of use, e.g., single-family residential, multiple-family
residential, retail, office, etc., and density of individual units in areas
shown, including:
      a.   Property within a radius of one (1) mile around the site; and
      b.    The property fronting on all vehicular routes within the Village
contemplated to be utilized by trucks which will enter and leave the site.
   5.   Geological/hydrological/engineering survey prepared by appropriate and
qualified experts, indicating:
      a.   All anticipated impact to the qualitative and quantitative aspects
of surface
      b.   water, ground water, and drainage during and subsequent to the
operation to the geographical extent reasonably expected to be affected; and
      c.   Opinion whether the exposure of subterranean waters and/or the
impoundmentof surface waters, where permitted, will establish a suitable water
level at the level or levels proposed as part of the operation, and whether the
same will not interfere with the existing subterranean water or cause any harm
or impairment to the general public;
   6.   Description of the vehicles, machinery and equipment proposed for use
on the property, specifying with respect to each, the anticipated noise and
vibration levels.
5.21.5 . Review Procedure.
   1.   The Zoning Administrator shall forward the original of the application
to the Village Clerk for the file and forward the copies to the members of the
Planning Commission, the Village Engineer, the Village Planner, and to the Road
Commission.
   2.   The Village Engineer and the Village Planner shall each file a report
with the Zoning Administrator, together with a recommendation on the need for
additional experts. The Zoning Administrator shall retain the original of these
reports for the file, and forward copies to the Planning Commission.
   3.   The Zoning Administrator shall request a report from the Road
Commission regarding traffic safety relevant to the application and any road
improvements deemed appropriate to protect the public health, safety and
welfare for areas located outside of the Village.
   4.   After receiving all reports, including any additional reports of
experts recommended by the Village Engineer and/or Planner, if deemed
appropriate the Planning Commission shall consider the application in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
3.3.
   5.   Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of the
application for the special land use, to insure that public services and
facilities affected by proposed land use or activity will be capable of
accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the land use or
activity, to protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and
energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the
use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner. Conditions imposed
shall be reasonable and shall be in compliance with applicable law.
5.21.6. Requirements and Standards.
The determination on applications submitted under this section shall be based
upon the following requirements and standards, as determined in the discretion
of the Planning Commission, and if the application is approved, such standards
and requirements shall be maintained as a condition to continued operation and
use by the applicant:
   1.    Demonstration by the applicant that the proposed land use shall not
result in a probable impairment to, pollution of, unreasonable impact upon and/
or destruction of the following:
      a.    The water table and/or private wells of property owners within the
reasonably anticipated area of impact during and subsequent to the operation.
      b.    The course, quantity, and quality of surface water, ground water,
and/or the watershed anticipated to be impacted by the operation.
      c.   The surrounding property and/or property along haul routes, in terms
of noise, dust, air, water, odor, light, and/or vibration, and further, shall
not unreasonably impact upon persons perceiving the operation in terms of
aesthetics.
   2.   The proposed land use shall not be incompatible with such surrounding
uses, based upon an application of generally accepted planning standards and
principles.
   3.   The proposed land use shall not unreasonably burden the capacity of
public services and facilities.
   4.   The proposed land use shall have immediate and direct access to a paved
road having a planned right-of-way not less than one hundred twenty (120) feet
and having necessary and appropriate load bearing and traffic volume capacity
in relation to the proposed intensity of the use.
   5.   All activities conducted in connection with the operation shall occur
at least one hundred sixty (160) feet from the nearest property line, provided,
all processing and stockpiling shall be conducted at least two hundred (200)
feet from the nearest property line.
   6.   The hours of operation shall not reasonably interfere with usual and
customary uses of land within the surrounding area anticipated to be impacted.
Maximum hours of operation shall be from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through
Saturday, and closed on Sundays.
   7.   The maximum duration of the proposed use, if conducted in or
immediately adjacent to a residential zoning district, shall be ten (10) years.
   8.   The site shall be secured with fencing and screened from all adjacent
public highways and residentially used parcels.
   9.   The total area being mined which has not been reclaimed shall at no
time exceed forty (40%) percent of the entire parcel.
   10.    The proposed transportation route or routes within the Village shall
be as direct and minimal in detrimental impact as reasonably possible, as
determined in the discretion of the Village at the time of application, and
thereafter.
5.21.7. Reclamation.
Reclamation of the site shall be in accordance with a reclamation plan approved
by the Village as part of the application review process. There shall be no
final slopes having a grade in excess of a minimum ratio of one (1) foot
vertical to five (5) feet horizontal, and, for permanent water areas, for a
distance of not less than ten (10) feet nor more than fifty (50) feet, the
submerged slopes shall be graded from the water’s edge at a grade not in excess
of a minimum ratio of one (1) foot vertical to seven (7) feet horizontal; the
entire site shall be planted with sufficient vegetation so as to sustain short
and long term growth, in order to avoid erosion and washout, and, to the extent
necessary to achieve this objective, suitable soils shall be placed on the
property; and, all structures, machinery, equipment and improvements shall be
removed from the site. The Village Council shall have the right to impose
performance bonds or letters of credit to ensure that the reclamation and
restoration plans as submitted are implemented.
Sec. 5.22 BUILDING TO BE MOVED OR DEMOLISHED
5.22.1. No permit shall be granted for the moving of buildings or structures
from without or within the limits of the Village to be placed on property
within said limits unless the County Building Official has made an inspection
of the building to be moved and finds that it is structurally safe and will not
adversely affect the character of existing buildings in the neighborhoods of
the new locations. The building will fully comply with the County Building Code
and other codes regulating public health, safety, and general welfare. A
performance bond as established by the Village Council of sufficient amount to
ensure the cost of completing the building move within a period of not more
than ninety (90) days from the date of the permit. In the event that the move
cannot be completed within the ninety (90) daytime- frame, the Zoning
Administrator may approve one or more extensions of up to thirty (30) days for
completion of the project.
5.22.2. Any building moved within a district and placed upon a foundation, or
any building moved into a district shall be subject to all the limitations and
requirements herein set forth relating to uses, construction, permits, and
certificates.
5.22.3. Buildings to be Demolished: No building within the Village will be
demolished without securing a demolition permit. All spoils of the building,
including the foundation, shall be removed, and appropriately discarded in a
certified facility. Proper dust control measures shall be employed during
demolition. The property shall be leveled and clean of all debris within six
(6) months of the issuance of the permit.
5.22.4. The performance bond is calculated as two times (2x’s) the SEV (1/2 the
value of the building) times five percent (5%).
Sec. 5.23 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
All adult entertainment as defined in Section
2.2 of this Zoning Ordinance is allowed in the I-MU District upon the granting
of a Special Land Use permit by the Planning Commission. All adult
Entertainment uses shall comply with the following requirements:
5.23.1. Adults’ entertainment establishments shall NOT be located within the
following designated areas:
   1.   Within 500’ feet from the nearest property line of any residential
zoning district or from the nearest property line of any residential use.
   2.   Within 500’ feet from the nearest property line of any public or
private school, public library, day care facility, nursing home, hospital,
church, municipal building, or public park.
The distances specified above shall be measured by a straight line from the
nearest property line of the premises on which the adult entertainment
establishment is to be located to the nearest boundary line of a residential
zoning district or to the property line of any of the public facilities listed
in ‘B’ above.
5.23.2 . Additional Site Requirements:
   1.   The maximum lot coverage, including building, parking and driveway
shall be fifty percent (50%) of the lot area.
   2.   A fifty (50) foot vegetated buffer containing adequate screening
appropriate to the character of the area.
   3.   An adult entertainment facility shall not be allowed within a building
containing other retail, consumer, or residential uses or within a bar/lounge,
a shopping center, plaza, or mall.
   4.   The appearance of buildings for adult uses shall be consistent with the
appearance of buildings in similar (but not specifically adult) use and does
not employ unusual coloring or building design which would attract attention to
the premises.
   5.   There shall be screening of all windows and doors to prevent the
public’s view of the interior from any private right of way or abutting
property.
5.23.3. Sign Requirements:
   1.   Sign content shall identify the name of the establishment only and
shall contain no advertisement in addition to the identification of the use.
   2.   Only one (1) identification sign shall be mounted on the building wall
face.
   3.   No adult entertainment establishments may have any flashing lights
visible from outside of the establishment. Furthermore, no sign shall rotate or
contain reflective or fluorescent elements.
   4.   No pictures, publications, videotapes, movies, covers or other
advertising items that fall within the definition of an adult bookstore or
adult motion picture theater will be displayed.
5.23.4 . Special Land Use Permit and Submission Approval:
   1.   A site plan shall be submitted by the applicant in order for the
Planning Commission to determine if the above standards have been met. The site
plan shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with the Village ordinance
governing Special Land Use Permits. The site plan must show the appropriate
distances between the proposed adult entertainment establishment and any
residential property, public or private school, church, public park, public
library or recreation area, family day care, nursing home, hospital, or
municipal building.
   2.   All applications for a Special Land Use Permit must include the
following:
      a.   Names and addresses of the legal owner(s) of the Adult entertainment
Establishment.
      b.   Name and addresses of all persons having a fee, equity and/or
security interest in such establishment. In the event a corporation,
partnership, trust, or other entity is listed, the names and addresses of every
person who has ownership must be listed in order for the Special Land Use
Permit hearing to take place.
         i.   The applicant shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
         ii.    The applicant shall not have been convicted of a pleaded nolo
contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity, or other crime of sexual nature in any jurisdiction within five (5)
years immediately preceding the date of the application.
         iii.    The above listed requirements apply to any/all officers,
directors and stockholders should this enterprise be listed as a corporation,
partnership, trust, or other entity.
5.23.5. A Special Land Use Permit shall be granted for an adult entertainment
Establishment only upon determination by the Planning Commission that the
location and design of the facility are in harmony with its surroundings, and
that adequate safeguards exist through licensing and other means to assure on a
continuing basis that activities therein will not be patently contrary to the
prevailing standards of adults in the community and will not involve minors in
any way.
5.23.6. In approving the Special Land Use Permit, the commission may attach
such conditions, limitations, and safeguards as are deemed necessary to protect
the immediate area and the village, provided however that no such condition in
fact prohibit the use of the property for the use intended. Conditions of
approval may include but are not limited to the following:
   1.   Street, side or rear setbacks are no less than the minimum required by
this ordinance.
   2.   Requirements of screening of the premises from adjoining premises or
from the street, by walls, fences, plantings, or other means.
   3.   Modification of the exterior features or appearances of the structure.
   4.   Limitation of size, number of occupants, method or time of operation,
or extent of facilities.
   5.   Regulation of number, design and location of access drives or other
traffic features.
   6.   Requirement of off-street parking or other special features beyond the
minimum required by this or other applicable ordinances.
   7.   The Special Land Use Permit shall be issued to the owner of the
establishment and shall not transfer with a change in ownership of the business
and/or property.
   8.   The hours of operation shall be established and may not be altered
without prior approval.
5.23.7. Revocation of Permit:
The Village can suspend or revoke this permit for any of the following reasons.
   1.    Any/all Special Land Use Permits granted hereunder for adult
entertainment establishments shall be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the
Village Zoning Official. Failure to comply with a quarterly inspection shall
constitute a violation of the conditions of the permit and may result in
suspension or termination of said permit.
   2.   Discovery that false or misleading information or date was given on the
permit application.
   3.   Pleading to a felony or a felony conviction.
   4.   Serving any intoxicating liquor, cereal malt beverage or wine on the
premises.
   5.   No employee or patron under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be
allowed on the premises.
   6.   The operation of the establishment must be maintained in a clean and
sanitary manner at all times.
5.23.8. Prohibited Uses:
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to authorize, legalize, or permit the
establishment, operation, or maintenance of any business, building or use which
violates any Village Ordinance regarding public nuisances, sexual conduct,
lewdness, obscene, harmful, or exhibition of public display thereof.
Sec. 5.24 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
5.24.1. Purpose and Intent.
It is the general purpose and intent of the Village to carry out the will of
the United States Congress by authorizing communication facilities needed to
operate wireless communication systems. However, it is the further purpose and
intent of the Village to provide for such authorization in a manner which will
retain the integrity of neighborhoods and the character, property values and
aesthetic quality of the community at large. In fashioning and administering
the provisions of this section, attempt has been made to balance these
potentially competing interests. Recognizing the number of providers authorized
to establish and operate wireless communication services and coverage, it is
the further purpose and intent of this section to:
   1.   Facilitate adequate and efficient provision of sites for wireless
communication facilities and ensure that wireless communication facilities are
situated in appropriate locations and relationships to other land uses,
structures, and buildings.
   2.   Establish predetermined districts or zones of the number, shape, and in
the location, considered best for the establishment of wireless communication
facilities, subject to applicable standards and conditions.
   3.   Recognize that operation of a wireless communication system may require
the establishment of facilities in locations not within the predetermined
districts or zones.
   4.   Minimize the adverse impacts of technological obsolescence of such
facilities, including a requirement to remove unused and/or unnecessary
facilities in a timely manner.
   5.   Minimize the negative visual impact of wireless communication
facilities on neighborhoods, community landmarks, historic sites and buildings,
natural beauty areas and public rights-of-way.
5.24.2 . Approval Process.
   1.   Collocation .
      a.   Pursuant to Section 3514, (1) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended,
collocation is permitted on existing and approved wireless communication
support structures (WCSS) without a zoning permit, provided the following
requirements are met:
         i.   The proposed collocation will not increase the overall height of
the WCSS by more than 20 feet or 10% of its original height, whichever is
greater.
         ii.    The proposed collocation will not increase the width of the
WCSS by more than the minimum necessary to permit collocation.
         iii.    The proposed collocation will not increase the area of the
existing equipment compound to greater than 2,500 square feet.
      b.   Plans for collocation installation shall be administratively
reviewed by the Zoning Administrator to verify compliance with the requirements
herein. The Zoning Administrator shall complete his or her administrative
review of the proposed installation plans within 14 business days of his or her
receipt of such plans.
      c.   Collocation which does not meet the requirements of subsection 1.,
a., above shall require a special land use permit in accordance with the
approval process for a new WCSS as outlined in subsection 2, below.
   2.   Establishment of New WCSS. The establishment of a new WCSS shall
require a special land use permit in accordance with Section
3.3 and the following:
      a.   An application for special land use approval of WCSS shall include a
site plan containing all information required by Section
3.4.
      b.   After an application for a special land use approval is filed, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine the special land use permit application is
administratively complete within 14 business days of its receipt.
      c.   The Planning Commission shall approve or deny the application not
more than 90 days after the application is considered to be administratively
complete.
   3.   Replacement of Existing WCSS. An existing WCSS which was lawful at the
time of its construction may be replaced for purposes of accommodating
collocation of additional WCE, or otherwise, provided that the replacement WCSS
does not exceed the original approved height, will be located within the same
zoning lot as the existing WCSS, and will be located so as to maximize
compliance with existing minimum yard requirements. Such installation shall be
considered to be a permitted use of property, not subject to special land use
permit approval. Further, the existing WCSS shall be removed within 180 days of
the Village’s final construction inspection of the replacement WCSS.
      a.    The Zoning Administrator shall determine that the application is
administratively complete within 14 business days of its receipt. The Zoning
Administrator shall approve or deny the application not more than 90 days after
the application is considered administratively complete. Such review by the
Zoning Administrator shall be without notice.
   4.   Installation of Wireless Communication Equipment (WCE). The
installation of WCE, not part of a proposed collocation activity, is permitted
within existing and approved equipment compounds without a zoning permit.
      a.   Plans for such installation shall be administratively reviewed by
the Zoning Administrator to verify compliance with the requirements herein. The
Zoning Administrator shall complete his or her administrative review of the
proposed installation plans within 14 business days of his or her receipt of
such plans.
5.24.3 . WCSS Standards for All Zoning Districts.
   1.   WCSS shall not exceed one-hundred fifty (150) feet in height.
   2.   WCSS shall be set back not less than a distance equal to the height of
the tower measured from the base of the tower to all points on each property
line.
   3.   In order to protect the rural dark sky environment and reduce lighting
confusion
   4.   for approaching aircraft, all WCSS shall be designed or painted to be
without lighting. If the FAA requires lighting, the applicant shall apply to
the FAA for painting requirements and red lighting. Intermittent strobes shall
be a last option and only then with written documentation from the FAA
certifying its necessity.
   5.   No antenna or similar sending/receiving devices appended to the WCSS,
following its approved construction, shall be permitted if it exceeds the
engineered design capacity of the WCSS thereby jeopardizing the WCSS’s
structural integrity.
   6.   The design plans for the WCSS shall be prepared by a Michigan
registered professional structural engineer.
   7.   The WCSS shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable
building codes and shall include the submission of a soils report from a
geotechnical engineer, licensed in the State of Michigan. This soils report
shall include soil borings and statements indicating the suitability of soil
conditions for the proposed use.
   8.   A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement, shall be
presented and approved as part of the site plan for the proposed facility. Such
plan shall be designed to ensure the long term, continuous maintenance to a
reasonably prudent standard.
5.24.4 . WCSS Standards for Non-Residential Zoning Districts.
   1.   WCSS may be permitted by the Planning Commission to locate within non-
residential zoning districts (AG, C-MU, G-MU, GC, CBD, and I-MU Districts),
subject to the following conditions and findings:
      a.   All reasonable measures to collocate must be documented, and such
collocation proves infeasible.
      b.   The proposed height meets FCC, FAA, Michigan Tall Structure (MDOT),
and any applicable Airport Overlay Zone regulations.
      c.   WCSS must be equipped with devices to prevent unauthorized climbing
including but not limited to "No Trespassing" signs and/or fencing.
      d.   All reasonable measures are taken to blend the WCSS into the
landscape, including greenbelt planting and/or screening, if appropriate, and
painting.
      e.   WCSS over 100 feet in height shall be designed for collocation.
      f.   Protective fencing and screening may be required to be placed around
all guy wire anchor points as appropriate to the site.
      g.   The WCSS shall be of monopole design, unless it can be demonstrated
that such design is not feasible to accommodate the user or collocation.
5.24.5. WCSS Standards for Residential Zoning Districts.
   1.   WCSS may be permitted by the Planning Commission to locate within the
R-1, R-2, R-3, and MHP Districts, subject to the following conditions and
findings:
      a.   All reasonable measures to collocate must be documented, and such
collocation proves infeasible.
      b.   The WCSS shall be of monopole design, unless it can be demonstrated
that such design is not feasible to accommodate the user or collocation.
      c.   All reasonable efforts to locate in non-residential zoning districts
have been made and are proven to be infeasible, unavailable, or not a
compatible land use as
   2.   determined by the Planning Commission.
      a.   The WCSS shall not exceed a height of one hundred (100) feet,
including the antenna, and no lights are used or required.
      b.   WCSS shall be of a design such as (without limitation) a steeple,
bell tower, or a form which is compatible with the existing character of the
proposed site, neighborhood, and general area, as approved by the Planning
Commission.
      c.   The Planning Commission finds that a location in a residential
district is the best overall alternative considering all factors of land use,
visibility, and satisfactory signal coverage.
5.24.6. Abandonment.
All wireless communication facilities shall be removed, and the site restored
to its original condition by the property owner or lessee within 90 days of
being abandoned. For the purposes of this section, abandoned shall mean that no
WCE or other commercial antenna has been operational and located on the WCSS
for 180 days or more.
Sec. 5.25 SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
5.25.1. Applicability, Intent and Purpose
Short term rentals within the R-1, C-MU and G-MU Districts are subject to the
requirements of this Section. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to
short term rentals within the CBD and GC Districts. Short term rentals within
the Village of Lexington are necessary because of the limited availability of
lodging; however, it is important to strike a balance between the interests of
the community residents, community business owners, visitors to the community
and property owners wishing to engage in short term residential rentals. While
these short-term rentals bring many benefits to the community, they can
simultaneously create concerns surrounding issues of traffic, parking,
congestion, litter and noise and they were in violation of the R-1 zoning
ordinances. As of this date, most if not all of the short-term residential
rentals are located in those areas zoned as R-1 with the majority located east
of M-25 near Lake Huron. Many of these rentals are very close together creating
the potential to jeopardize the single-family neighborhood character;
therefore, for purposes of maintaining the small-town character of our Village,
short term rentals will be limited to one every 250 feet. For the purpose of
determining the distance between properties, the measurement shall begin and
terminate at the closest point between the two properties (measured from
property lines), for a distance of not less than 250 ft. Those in operation as
of May 2018 and initially registered by July 31, 2018, will be considered
established and permitted until such date as they are either sold, fail to be
used as a short-term rental for more than eighteen (18) months or the owner
fails to renew the registration of the rental by the registration deadline.
5.25.2. Registration.
All dwellings used for short term rentals must be registered annually at the
Lexington Village office. To register a short-term rental, the property owner
or agent of the owner shall:
   1.     Provide and certify as true the following on a form provided by the
Village:
      a.   Name, address, and telephone number of the local agent for the
dwelling unit.
      b.   The street address of the dwelling unit, along with other
identification if more than one dwelling unit has the same street address.
      c.   The number of bedrooms in the dwelling.
      d.   The maximum number of occupants to which the applicant intends to
rent in any given rental period.
      e.   The length of the typical rental period for which the applicant
intends to rent the property.
      f.   A statement certifying that the property owner or a local agent will
provide at least one copy of the Village’s Good Visitor Guideline materials to
the renters each time the dwelling unit is rented.
      g.   A statement certifying whether or not the dwelling unit was used as
a short-term rental for at least 15 days or at least three (3) times during the
current or previous calendar year.
   2.   Pay a registration fee and renewal fee determined by the Planning
Commission.
   3.   Upon acceptance of the registration, the Village of Lexington will
issue a short term residential rental permit.
   4.   Applications will be time and date stamped and handled in chronological
order.
   5.   The Zoning Administrator may impose conditions or limitations to
protect against adverse impacts from the proposed short-term rental.
5.25.3. Short term rental regulations:
   1.    Local agent required- All dwelling units used for short term rentals
shall have a designated local agent who lives within 30 miles of the dwelling
if the owner does not live within 100 miles of the dwelling.
   2.     Street number clearly posted on the exterior of the building to
identify the residence.
5.25.4. Violations; revocation of registration:
Violations as municipal civil infractions. Any violation of a provision of this
article shall be a municipal civil infraction. Each day that a violation
continues constitutes a separate violation. Notwithstanding any other provision
of the Code of Ordinances, violations of this article are subject to the
following fines:
   1.   Short-term rental of unregistered dwellings. The fine for leasing an
unregistered dwelling unit is $750 for a first violation and $1,000 for each
subsequent violation.
   2.   Other Provisions. Subject to all civil infractions in the Village.
   3.   Revocation of permit will require the authorization of a committee
which may consist of the Zoning Administrator, Village manager, and Planning
Commission Chairperson or their designee. The revocation may be appealed to the
Village Council.
Sec. 5.26 ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
Micro-breweries, breweries, small wineries, wineries, small distilleries, and
distilleries shall be subject to the following conditions:
5.26.1. Such facilities may contain a restaurant, bar or tasting room as an
accessory use. Sidewalk caf service may be allowed within the CBD, C-MU, and GC
Districts, subject to Section
5.19.
5.26.2. For production areas (brewing, winemaking, or distilling), off-street
parking as required for manufacturing per Section
9.4.1 shall be provided. For restaurant, bar or tasting room areas, off-street
parking as required for sit down restaurants per Section
9.4.1 shall be provided.
5.26.3. All production (brewing, winemaking, or distilling) activities shall be
conducted within an enclosed structure.
5.26.4. The outdoor storage of machinery, equipment, barrels, kegs, or similar
materials associated with the operation shall only be allowed within an area
surrounded by a solid, unpierced fence or wall not to exceed six (6) feet in
height and not closer to the lot lines than the minimum yard requirements for
buildings permitted in said districts.
5.26.5. Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be maintained.
Sec. 5.27 MIXED-USE BUILDINGS
Except as otherwise specified herein, buildings containing multiple uses are
specifically allowed within the C-MU, G-MU, GC, and CBD Districts. The uses
allowed within mixed-use buildings shall be limited to those permitted within
the district in which the building is located. If any use within a mixed-use
building is allowed as a special land use, special land use approval for the
project shall be required in accordance with Section
3.3.
Sec. 5.28 REQUIRED SIDEWALKS & NON-MOTORIZED SITE AMENITIES
All projects requiring full site plan review by the Planning Commission in
accordance with
Section
3.4.1, (3) shall comply with the following:
5.28.1. Site Amenities.
   1.   Not less than one (1) site amenity shall be provided which enhances
safety and convenience and promotes walking or bicycling as an alternative
means of transportation. Site amenities may include bike racks, drinking
fountains, canopies, and benches.
5.28.2 . Sidewalks:
   1.   Developments abutting any public street shall be required to install a
minimum five (5) foot wide concrete sidewalk along the entire street frontage.
   2.   For any development, an on-site sidewalk shall be required as a means
of connecting the principal building with the road frontage sidewalk. The
Planning Commission shall determine if a proposed sidewalk system has provided
an adequate connection between the site and the road frontage.
Sec. 5.29 ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE
5.29.1. Intent.
The intent of this section is to:
   1.   facilitate and encourage the use of electric vehicles within the
Village of Lexington and expedite the establishment of a convenient, cost-
effective electric vehicle infrastructure for the benefit of citizens and
visitors.
   2.   preserve a pedestrian-oriented use pattern in mixed-use zones.
   3.   encourage patronage of Lexington's business districts.
5.29.2. Permitted Locations.
Level-I and Level-2 EV charging stations are permitted in every zoning district
when accessory to the principal permitted use. Such stations located at single-
family, two- family, multiple-family, and mobile home park dwellings shall be
designated as private restricted use only. Installation shall be subject to
permit approval administered by the Zoning Administrator.
Level 3 EV charging is permitted as a special land use in all non-residential
zones in accordance with the review and approval procedures of Section
3.3.
The tourist/visitor/summer resident portion of Lexington's local economy is
centered around its downtown and the waterfront. Both areas are at their best
with a pedestrian/walkable use pattern. EV charging holds promise for business
enhancement in these areas so long as the pedestrian use pattern is preserved
and the Lexington brand is not diminished. Therefore, all hosts of level 3
battery charging stations in the CBD zone shall be required to meet the
following additional standards.
      a.   Traffic patterns to and from the level 3battery charging station
shall not diminish pedestrian safety, nor add to traffic-related visual or
audible nuisance levels.
      b.   Actively charging vehicles will be inconspicuous from the public
realm.
Level 4. No EV charging infrastructure is allowed to be placed within any road
right of way, except without the express authorization of the public road
agency having jurisdiction (i.e., the Village of Lexington or the Michigan
Department of Transportation).
5.29.3. Readiness Recommendations.
   1.   Residential. To proactively plan for and accommodate the anticipated
future growth in market demand for EVs, it is strongly encouraged, but not
required, that al new single-family, two-family, and multiple family dwellings
with garages be constructed to provide a 220-240 volt/50-amp outlet on a
dedicated circuit to accommodate the potential future hardwire installation of
a Level-2 EV charging station.
   2.   Non-Residential. To proactively plan for and accommodate the
anticipated future growth in market demand for EVs, it is strongly encouraged,
but not required, that all new and expanded non-residential use off-street
parking areas provide the electrical capacity necessary to accommodate the
future hardwire installation of Level-2 EV charging stations. No recommendation
is made as to the number of spaces required for any given parcel. Owner self-
interest and market forces will guide landowners to adequately provide for EV
charging as best suits current and future use of the site and to preserve
property value.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a93390b22ef5827ef5ab16838ac5664bfcc23dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1361.jpg]
 
5.29.4. General Requirements for Multi-Family Residential and Non-Residential
Development
   1.   Off-Street Parking.
      a.   An EV charging station space may be included in the calculation for
the minimum required parking spaces as required by Section
9.4 of this ordinance.
      b.   Public use EV charging stations shall be reserved for charging
electric vehicles only. Electric vehicles may be parked in any space designated
for public parking, subject to the restrictions that would apply to any other
vehicle that would park in that space.
   2.   Lighting. Site lighting for the VE charging station shall be provided
and shielded in accordance with Section
6.8.2 Equipment Standards and Protection.
      a.   Battery charging station outlets and connector devices shall be no
less than 36 inches and no more than 48 inches in height from the ground
surface where mounted. Equipment mounted on pedestals, lighting posts,
bollards, or other devices shall be designed and located so as not to impede
pedestrian travel or create trip hazards on sidewalks.
      b.   Adequate battery charging station protection, such as concrete-
filled steel bollards, shall be used. Curbing may be used instead of bollards
if the battery charging station is set back a minimum of 24 inches from the
face of the curb.
      c.   All equipment and installation procedures shall conform to all
relevant building and electrical codes and comply with all requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
   3.    Usage Fees. The property owner is not restricted from collecting a
service fee for the use of an EV charging station made available to visitors of
the property.
   4.    Signage.
      a.   Information shall be posted identifying voltage and amperage levels
and any time of use, fees, or safety information related to the VE charging
station.
      b.   Each EV charging station shall be posted with signage indicating the
space is only for electric vehicle charging purposes. For purposes of this
subsection, "charging" means that a VE is parked at an EV charging station and
is connected to the battery charging station equipment. Restrictions shall be
included on the signage, if removal provisions are to be enforced by the
property owner, signage to this intent is to be prominently displayed.
Maintenance. VE charging stations shall be maintained in all respects,
including the functioning of the equipment. A phone number or other contact
information shall be provided on the equipment for reporting when it is not
functioning, or other problems are encountered.
Sec. 5.30 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
5.30.1. Definitions
   1.   BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (BESS): One or more devices, assembled
together, capable of storing and discharging electricity primarily intended to
supply electricity to a building.
   2.   PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICE: A system of components that generates electric
energy from incident sunlight by means of the photovoltaic effect, regardless
of whether the device can store the electric energy produced for later use.
   3.   SOLAR ARRAY: Any number of photovoltaic devices connected together to
provide a single output of electrical energy or other energy.
   4.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ABANDONED: Any Solar Energy System, Solar Array or
combination of Photovoltaic Devices that remains nonfunctional or inoperative
to the extent that it is not used to generate electric energy for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months.
   5.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, LARGE SCALE: A utility-scale solar energy system
where the primary use of the land is to generate electric energy or other
energy by converting sunlight, whether by photovoltaic devices or other
conversion technology, for the sale, delivery or consumption of the generated
energy by more than one end-user, and the power output of that system is equal
to or greater than 25 kilowatts.
   6.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL SCALE: A solar energy system where the sole
use is to generate electric energy or other energy by converting sunlight,
whether photovoltaic devices or other conversion technology, primarily for
consumption by a single end user at the same property upon which the solar
energy system is located. The power output of the system shall not exceed 25
kilowatts.
5.30.2. Small Scale Solar Energy Systems
Small scale solar energy systems are permitted by a land use permit only as an
accessory use in any zoning district, subject to the following standards:
   1.   Any small-scale solar energy system mounted on the ground shall be
located only in the rear yard and must comply with all accessory structure
setback and lot coverage requirements of the district. The height of any small-
scale solar energy system mounted on the ground shall not exceed six (6) feet
when orientated at a maximum tilt as measured from the existing grade.
   2.   Any small-scale solar energy system mounted on the ground shall be
provided with buffering to screen the installation from adjacent properties.
Buffering shall consist of an opaque fence not to exceed six (6) feet in height
or evergreen shrubs along the length of each of the sides of Evergreen shrubs
shall be at least six (6) feet in height and spaced to maintain a minimum
opacity of eighty percent (80%). Opacity shall be measured by observation of
any two (2) square yard area of landscape screen between one (1) foot above the
established grade of the area to be concealed and the top or the highest point
of the required screen. The plantings must meet this standard based upon
reasonably anticipated growth over a period of three (3) years. The area
utilized for solar panel arrays. 3. All power transmission lines from a ground
mounted small scale solar energy system to any building, structure, or BESS
shall be located underground.
   3.   Any small-scale solar energy system erected on a building shall not
extend beyond the peak of the roof. For systems erected on a flat roof, the
highest point of the system shall be permitted to extend up to six (6) feet
above the roof to which it is attached; however, it shall be so located or
architecturally concealed by a parapet wall or screen so that the system is not
visible from abutting road rights-of-way or private road easements.
   4.   No small-scale solar energy system shall be installed in such a way as
to pose an unreasonable safety hazard.
   5.   All small-scale solar energy systems must be installed in a manner
ensuring that concentrated solar glare shall not be directed onto nearby
properties or roadways.
   6.   All small-scale solar energy systems must conform to all applicable
federal, state, and county requirements, in addition to other applicable
Village Ordinances, as well as any applicable industry standards.
   7.   An abandoned small scale solar energy system, as defined in this
Ordinance, shall be removed by the property owner within six (6) months.
5.30.3. Large Scale Solar Energy Systems
Large scale solar energy systems are not permitted as a primary or accessory
use in any zoning district, except on municipal-owned property.
Sec. 5.31 CHICKEN ORDINANCE
5.31 Keeping of Fowl
The keeping of female chickens (hens) is permitted in any zoning district,
except CBD, as an accessory and personal use, subject to the requirements of
this Section. The keeping of any other type of fowl, including male chickens
(roosters) is prohibited. Slaughtering of any fowl on the property is
prohibited.
   1.   Licensing and Inspection.
      a.   An approved permit application must be obtained from the Village
prior to acquiring any hens.
      b.   Permits shall be non-transferable, site-specific, and shall expire
on December 31 of the year in which it was issued. A person who wants to
continue keeping hens must obtain a new permit prior to expiration of the
previous permit.
      c.   Approved permit holders shall schedule an inspection within thirty
(30) days of permit issuance. Failure to schedule an inspection shall result in
an automatic suspension of the permit. If an inspection identifies
noncompliance with any of the requirements set forth in this Section, the
permit holder shall have fourteen (14) days after being served with written
notice of non-compliance to achieve compliance with the requirements.
      d.   Notwithstanding this section, private restrictions on the use of
property shall remain enforceable. Private restrictions include but are not
limited to deed restrictions, leases, neighborhood association by-laws, and
covenant deeds. A permit issued to a person whose property is subject to
private restrictions that prohibit the keeping of chickens is void. The
interpretation and enforcement of the private restrictions is the sole
responsibility of the private parties involved.
   2.   Requirements.
      a.   A person who keeps hens shall comply with the following
requirements:
      b.   Keep no more than six (6) hens at any time.
      c.   Hens shall be maintained in a fully enclosed structure (coop) with
or without a fenced enclosure (run) at all times. Coops shall be constructed of
permanent materials and shall be properly maintained. Runs may be wire mesh
with openings no larger than one and one quarter (1 ¼) inch.
      d.   All coops and runs shall be maintained in the rear yard only as
defined in this Zoning Ordinance and shall comply with all fencing and lot
coverage requirements of this Zoning Ordinance. Also, all coops and runs shall
not be located any closer than twenty-five (25) feet from any residential
structure on adjacent property.
      e.   All coops and runs shall be so constructed or repaired as to prevent
rats, mice, insects, and other vermin from being harbored underneath, inside,
or within the walls of the coop or fenced enclosure. All feed and other items
associated with the keeping of hens that are likely to attract or to become
infested with or infected by vermin shall be protected and/or sealed so as to
prevent vermin from gaining access to or coming into contact with them.
      f.   Hens shall be kept in compliance with the Michigan Department of
Agriculture Generally Accepted Agricultural and Management Practices for the
Care of Farm Animals, as it relates to egg laying chickens, as amended, except
as otherwise provided in this section.
   3.   Violations.
If any of the requirements in this section are not fully complied with, the
Village may revoke any Permit granted under this section and/or initiate
prosecution for a civil infraction violation. A Permit may also be revoked if
the proposed use causes a nuisance to adjoining residences due to noise or
odor.
***** ARTICLE 6: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION & DESIGN PROVISIONS *****
Sec. 6.1 PURPOSE
Environmental standards are established in order to preserve the short and
long-term environmental health, safety, and quality of the Village. No parcel,
lot, building or structure in any district shall be used or occupied in any
manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise
objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the surrounding
area or adjoining premises. Any use permitted by this Ordinance may be
undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards are employed to
limit dangerous and objectionable elements to acceptable limits as established
by the following performance standards. No use, otherwise allowed, shall be
permitted within any district which does not conform to the following standards
of use, occupancy, and operation. These standards are established as minimum
requirements to be maintained.
Sec. 6.2 LANDSCAPING, GREENBELTS & BUFFERS, & SCREENING
6.2.1. Intent.
The intent of this section is to:
   1.   Protect and preserve the appearance, character, and value of the
community.
   2.   Minimize noise, air, and visual pollution.
   3.   Improve the overall aesthetics and appearance, divide the expanse of
pavement, and define parking areas and vehicular circulation within off-street
parking lots and other vehicular use areas.
   4.   Require buffering of residential areas from more intense land uses and
public road rights-of-way.
   5.   Prevent soil erosion and soil depletion and promote sub-surface water
retention.
   6.   Encourage an appropriate mixture of plant material, such as evergreen
and deciduous trees and shrubs, to protect against insect and disease
infestation and produce a more aesthetic and cohesive design.
   7.   Encourage the integration of existing woodlands in landscape plans.
6.2.2. Application of Requirements.
These requirements shall apply to all uses for which site plan review is
required under Section 3.4 of this Ordinance and subdivision plat review as
required under the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
No site plan, site condominium plan, or subdivision plat shall be approved
unless a landscape plan is provided which meets the requirements set forth
herein. The Planning Commission, during site plan review, may determine that
conditions unique to the parcel exist which would prevent compliance with the
requirements of this Ordinance, or which would make such compliance
unnecessary. In such cases, these requirements may be modified in whole or in
part. Criteria to be used when considering a modification shall include, but
not be limited to:
   1.   Existence of natural vegetation or screening
   2.   Topography
   3.   Existence of areas of poor soils
   4.   Existing and proposed building placement
   5.   Building height
   6.   Adjacent land uses
   7.   Distance between land uses
   8.   Dimensional conditions unique to the parcel
   9.   Traffic, sight distances and traffic operational characteristics on and
off site
   10.    Visual, noise and air pollution levels
   11.    Public health, safety, and welfare
6.2.3. Landscape Plan Requirements.
A separate detailed landscape plan shall be required to be submitted to the
Village as part of the site plan review or tentative preliminary plat review.
The landscape plan shall demonstrate that all requirements of this Section are
met and shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following items:
   1.    Location, spacing, size, root type and descriptions for each plant
type.
   2.    Typical straight cross section including slope, height, and width of
berms.
   3.   Typical construction details to resolve specific site conditions, such
as landscape walls and tree wells used to preserve existing trees or maintain
natural grades.
   4.   Details in either text or drawing form to ensure proper installation
and establishment of proposed plant materials.
   5.   Identification of existing trees and vegetative cover to be preserved.
   6.   Identification of grass and other ground cover and method of planting.
   7.   Identification of landscape maintenance program including statement
that all diseased, damaged, or dead materials shall be replaced in accordance
with standards of this Ordinance.
6.2.4. Screening Between Land Uses.
   1.   Upon any improvement for which a site plan is required, a landscape
buffer shall be constructed to create a visual screen at least six (6) feet in
height along all adjoining boundaries between either a conflicting non-
residential or conflicting residential land use and residentially zoned or used
property. A landscape buffer may consist of earthen berms and/or living
materials so as to maintain a minimum opacity of at least eighty (80%) percent.
Opacity shall be measured by observation of any two (2) square yard area of
landscape screen between one (1) foot above the established grade of the area
to be concealed and the top or the highest point of the required screen. The
plantings must meet this standard based upon reasonably anticipated growth over
a period of three (3) years.
   2.   Where there is a need to provide a greater noise or dust barrier or to
screen more intense development, a solid wall or fence shall be required by the
Village. Such wall or fence shall be a minimum of six (6) feet but no greater
than eight (8) feet in height as measured on the side of the proposed wall
having the higher grade.
   3.   A required wall shall be located on the lot line except where
underground utilities interfere and except in instances where this Zoning
Ordinance requires conformity with front yard setback requirements. Upon review
of the landscape plan, the Village may approve an alternate location of a wall.
The Village and the Building Official shall approve the construction materials
of the wall or fence which may include face brick, poured-in-place simulated
face brick, and pre-cast brick face panels having simulated face brick, stone,
or wood.
6.2.5. Parking Lot Landscaping.
   1.   Required Landscaping Within Parking Lots. Separate landscape areas
shall be provided within parking lots in accordance with the following
requirements:
      a.   There shall be a minimum of one (1) tree for every eight (8) parking
spaces within a landscape island, provided that a landscape island is required
for each sixteen (16) continuous spaces. Where landscape islands are not
required, the same ratio of trees shall be placed on the site.
      b.   Landscaping shall be arranged in curbed islands with intermittent
water drainage within the parking lot which shall not be less than fifty (50)
square feet in area.
      c.   A minimum distance of three (3) feet from the backside of the curb
and the proposed landscape plantings shall be provided. Where vehicles overhang
a landscape island or strip, a minimum distance of five (5) feet from the
backside of the curb and the proposed landscape plantings shall be provided.
      d.   The Village, at its discretion, may approve alternative landscape
plantings at the perimeter of parking lots where landscaping within parking
lots would be impractical due to the size of the parking lot or detrimental to
safe and efficient traffic flow, or would create an unreasonable burden for
maintenance and snowplowing.
   2.   Required Landscaping at the Perimeter of Parking Lots. Separate
landscape areas shall be provided at the perimeter of parking lots in
accordance with the following requirements:
      a.   Parking lots which are considered to be a conflicting land use as
defined by this Section shall meet the screening requirements set forth in
Section
6.2.4.
      b.   Parking lots shall be screened from view with a solid wall at least
three (3) feet in height along the perimeter of those sides which are visible
from a public road. The Village, at its discretion, may approve alternative
landscape plantings in lieu of a wall.
6.2.6. Greenbelts.
A greenbelt shall be provided which is an area established at a depth of the
required front yard setback within that zoning district and landscaped in
accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   The greenbelt shall be landscaped with a minimum of one (1) tree for
every thirty (30) lineal feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage abutting a
public road right-of-way. Non- ornamental deciduous trees within a greenbelt
shall be a minimum caliper of two and one-half (2 1/2) inches or greater.
Evergreen trees within a greenbelt shall be a minimum height of six (6) feet.
   2.   If ornamental deciduous trees are substituted for either non-ornamental
deciduous trees or evergreen trees, they shall be provided at a minimum of one
(1) tree for every twenty (20) lineal feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage
abutting a public road right-of- way. Ornamental deciduous trees within a
greenbelt shall be a minimum caliper of two (2) inches or greater.
   3.   In addition to the required trees within the greenbelt, the remainder
of the greenbelt shall be landscaped in grass, ground cover, shrubs, and other
natural landscape materials.
   4.   Access drives from public rights-of-way through required greenbelts
shall be permitted, but such drives shall not be subtracted from the lineal
dimension used to determine the minimum number of trees required.
6.2.7. Site Landscaping.
In addition to any landscape greenbelt and/or parking lot landscaping required
by this section, ten (10%) percent of the site area, excluding existing public
rights -of-way, shall be landscaped. Such site area landscaping may include a
combination of the preservation of existing tree cover, planting of new trees
and plant material, landscape plazas and gardens and building foundation
planting beds. Site area landscaping shall be provided to screen potentially
objectionable site features such as, but not limited to, retention/detention
ponds, transformer pads, air-conditioning units, and loading areas.
6.2.8. Subdivision and Site Condominium Landscaping.
Landscaping for single-family residential subdivisions and site condominiums
shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
   1.    Street Trees. The frontage of all internal public streets shall be
landscaped with a minimum of one (1) tree for every fifty (50) lineal feet, or
fraction thereof. Such street trees shall meet the minimum size and spacing
requirements set forth in Section 6.2.11.
   2.   Screening Between Land Uses. Where a subdivision or site condominium
contain uses which are defined as conflicting land uses by this Section, the
screening requirements set forth in Section
6.2.4. shall be met.
   3.   Screening From Public Roads. Where a subdivision or site condominium
abuts a public road right-of-way located outside of the proposed subdivision or
site condominium, the screening requirements set forth in Section
6.2.4. shall be met.
   4.   Other Site Improvements. A landscape plan for a subdivision or site
condominium development shall also include landscaping details of the entrance
to the development, storm water retention and/or detention areas, community
buildings and other recreational areas, and any other site improvement which
would be enhanced through the addition of landscaping.
6.2.9. Landscape Elements. The following minimum standards shall apply:
   1.   Quality. Plant materials shall be of generally acceptable varieties and
species, free from insects and diseases, hardy to Sanilac County, conform to
the current minimum standard of the American Association of Nurserymen, and
shall have proof of any required governmental regulations and/or inspections.
   2.   Composition. A mixture of plant material, such as evergreen deciduous
trees and shrubs, is recommended as a protective measure against insect and
disease infestation. A limited mixture of hardy species is recommended rather
than a large quantity of different species to produce a more aesthetic,
cohesive design and avoid a disorderly appearing arrangement.
   3.   Berms. Berms shall be constructed with slopes not to exceed a 1:
3 gradient. Berm slopes shall be protected with sod, seed, or other form of
natural ground cover.
   4.   Existing Trees. The preservation and incorporation of existing trees is
encouraged. Where existing trees are used to satisfy the requirements of this
Section, the following requirements shall apply:
      a.   Paving, or other site improvements, shall not encroach upon the drip
line of the existing tree(s) to be preserved.
      b.   If existing plant material is labeled "To Remain" on site plans by
the applicant or required by the Village, protective techniques, such as, but
not limited to, fencing or barriers placed at the drip line around the
perimeter of the plant material shall be installed during construction. No
vehicle or other construction equipment shall be parked or stored within the
drip line of any plant material intended to be saved. Other protective
techniques may be used provided such techniques are approved by the Village.
      c.    In the event that healthy trees which are used to meet the minimum
requirements of this Ordinance or those labeled to remain are cut down,
destroyed, damaged, or excavated at the drip line, as determined by the
Village, the Contractor shall replace them with trees which meet Ordinance
requirements.
   5.    Installation, Maintenance, and Completion.
      a.   All landscaping required by this Ordinance shall be planted before
obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy or the appropriate financial guarantee, as
set forth in Section
3.7, shall be placed in escrow in the amount of the cost of landscaping to be
released only after landscaping is completed.
      b.   All landscaping and landscape elements shall be planted, and earth
moving or grading performed, in a sound workmanlike manner, according to
accepted planting and grading procedures.
      c.   The owner of property required to be landscaped by this Ordinance
shall maintain such landscaping in a strong and healthy condition, free from
refuse, debris and insects. All materials used to satisfy the requirements of
this Ordinance which become unhealthy, or dead shall be replaced within one (1)
year of damage or death or the next appropriate planting period, whichever
comes first. All landscaped areas shall be provided with a readily available
and acceptable water supply.
6.2.10. Minimum Size and Spacing Requirements.
Where landscaping is required, the following schedule sets forth minimum size
and spacing requirements, for representative landscape materials.
6.2.11 Size and Spacing Requirements.
      Minimum Size Allowable Recommended on Height/ Center Spacing (in feet)
TREES Spread
      6' 3'-4' 2" 2.5"                              30 25 15 10
                    Minimum Size Allowable Recommended Center Spacing (in feet)
TREES               on Height/Spread
                    6' 3'-4' 2" 2.5"                   30 25 15 10
Evergreen Trees:
Fir                 X                                        X
Spruce              X                                        X
Pine                X                                        X
Hemlock             X                                        X
Douglas Fir         X                                        X
Narrow Evergreen Trees:
Red Cedar              X                                        X
Arborvitae             X                                        X
Juniper (selected      X                                        X
varieties)
Large Deciduous Trees:
Oak                             X                      X
Maple                           X                      X
Beech                           X                      X
Linden                          X                         X
Ash                             X                      X
Gingko (male only)              X                      X
Honey Locust
(seedless, thorn                X                      X
less)
Birch                           X                         X
Sycamore                        X                      X
Small Deciduous Trees (ornamental):
Flowering Dogwood            X                               X
(disease resistant)
Flowering Cherry,            X                            X
Plum, Pear
Hawthorn                     X                               X
Redbud                       X                            X
Magnolia                     X                               X
Flowering Crabapple          X                               X
Mountain Ash                 X                               X
Hornbeam                     X                            X
 
 
       Minimum Size Allowable Height/ Spread Recommended on Center Spacing (in
SHRUBS Recommended On Center Spacing (in     feet)
       feet)
       3'-4' 24 - 36 18 - 24                 10 6 5 4 3
                    Minimum Size Allowable Height/ Recommended on Center
SHRUBS              Spread Recommended On Center   Spacing (in feet)
                    Spacing (in feet)
                    3'-4' 24 - 36 18 - 24          10 6 5 4 3
Large Evergreen Shrubs:
Pyramidal Yew       X                              X
Hicks Yew                         X                       X
Spreading Yew             X                             X
Alberta Spruce      X                                     X
Chine sis Juniper         X                           X
Varieties
Sabina Juniper                    X                     X
Mugho Pine                        X                   X
Small Evergreen Shrubs:
Brown's Ward's Yews               X                         X
Horizontal Juniper                X
Varieties
Boxwood                           X                       X ∙
Euonymus Spreading                X                   X X
Varieties
Large Deciduous Shrubs:
Honeysuckle               X                        X
Lilac                     X                        X
Privet                    X                           X     ∙
Sumac                     X                           X
Buckthorn/Tall      X                                   X   ∙
hedge
Pyracantha                        X                     X
Weigela             X                                     X
Flowering Quince          X                           X
Cotoneaster (Peking       X                             X
and Spreading)
Dogwood (Red Osier        X                           X
& Grey)
Euonymus (Burning         X                           X ∙
Bush)
Vibumum varieties         X                           X
Small Deciduous Shrubs:
Barberry                          X                     X
Dwarf Winged                      X                     X   ∙
Euonymus
Spirea                            X                       X
Fragrant Sumac                    X
Japanese Quince                   X                         X
Cotoneaster                       X                         X
(Rockspray,                       X                     X
Cranberry)
Potentilla                        X                         X
 
∙  For hedge plantings
Sec. 6.3 FENCES, WALLS, & SCREENS
Any person desiring to build or cause to be built a fence upon property within
the Village of Lexington shall first apply to the Zoning Administrator for a
permit. Application for such permit shall contain any and all information,
including site plan and opacity, which are required and necessary for the
determination of whether the erection of such fence would be contrary to the
provisions of this Ordinance. The fee for such permit shall be set by Council
resolution.
Except as otherwise required by this Ordinance, the following regulations shall
apply:
6.3.1. In a residential district, fences shall not exceed six (6) feet in
height. However,fences are not permitted in front yards, and fences inside
yards shall not exceed (4) feet in height and fifty (50%) percent opacity.
Opacity is the degree to which a fence is impervious to rays of light. This
condition shall be measured by the observation of any two (2) square yard area
of fence between one (1) foot above the ground level and the top of the fence.
The observation shall be from a direction perpendicular to the place of the
fence.
6.3.2. In a commercial, industrial, or office district, no fence, wall, or
other screening structure shall exceed eight (8) feet in height. No fence is
allowed in the front yard area or in the area fronting the primary building
along the street.
6.3.3. For property adjacent to Lake Huron, no fence, wall, or screen will
exceed the height of four (4) feet and must have no more than fifty percent
(50%) opacity.
6.3.4. The use of barbed wire, spikes, nails, or any other sharp point or
instrument of any kind on top or on the sides of any fence is prohibited.
Barbed wire cradles may be placed on top of fences enclosing public utility
buildings or wherever deemed necessary in the interests of public safety.
6.3.5. No fence shall be constructed or maintained which is charged or
connected with an electrical current.
6.3.6. Retaining walls shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
applicable building code requirements.
6.3.7. Temporary construction fences and fences required for protection around
excavations shall comply with Article 18 of the Basic Building Code. Such
fences shall not remain in place for a period greater than a year.
6.3.8. Clear Vision Requirements.
   1.   No fence, wall, screen, hedge, sign, or other structure or planting
shall obstruct visibility between the heights of thirty (30) inches and ten
(10) feet above the sidewalk grade within twenty-five (25) feet of the
intersection of two or more streets.
   2.   On any interior lot, no fence, wall, screen, hedge, sign, or other
structure or planting shall obstruct the visibility of a driveway, either on a
parcel or on an adjacent parcel, between the height of thirty (30) inches and
ten (10) feet measured a distance of twenty (20) feet back from the point where
the driveway intersects the street ‘s edge.
Sec. 6.4 AIRBORNE EMISSIONS
6.4.1. Smoke and Air Contaminants.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit the
emission of any smoke or air contaminant in violation of air quality standards
adopted by Federal and/or state regulatory authorities.
6.4.2. Odors.
Any condition or operation which results in the creation of odors of such
intensity and character as to be detrimental to the health and welfare of the
public or which interferes unreasonably with the comfort of the public shall be
removed, stopped, or so modified as to remove the odor. The provisions of this
Section are not intended to apply to farming activities.
6.4.3. Gases.
The escape or emission of any gas which is injurious or destructive, harmful to
person or property, or explosive shall be unlawful and shall be abated.
Sec. 6.5 NOISE & VIBRATION
6.5.1. Noise which is objectionable as determined by the Village due to volume,
frequency, or beat shall be muffled, attenuated, or otherwise controlled,
subject to the noise control provisions in
Chapter 34 Environment of the Village Code.
6.5.2. In addition, objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature, or sounds
characterized by high frequencies, even if falling below the decibel readings
in
Chapter 34, shall be so controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent
uses. Sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are exempt
from this requirement. Noise resulting from temporary construction activity
shall also be exempt from this requirement.
6.5.3. No use shall generate any ground transmitted vibration in excess of the
limits set forth below. Vibration shall be measured at the nearest adjacent lot
line. The vibration maximums set forth below are stated in terms of particle
velocity, which may be measured directly with suitable instrumentation or
computed on the basis of displacement and frequency. When computed, the
following standards shall apply:
 
Particle Velocity, Inches per Second
Frequency in Cycles per Second Displacement in Inches
0 to 10                        0.0010
10 to 20                       0.0008
20 to 30                       0.0005
30 to 40                       0.0004
40 and over                    0.0003
 
6.5.4.  Vibrations resulting from temporary construction activity shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section.
Sec. 6.6 USE, STORAGE & HANDLING OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE; STORAGE & DISPOSAL OF
SOLID
6.6.1.  It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other legal
entity to pollute, impair or destroy the air, water, soils, or other natural
resources within the Village through the use, storage, and handling of
hazardous substances and/or wastes or the storage and disposal of solid,
liquid, gaseous and/or sanitary wastes.
6.6.2. Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity operating a
business or conducting an activity which uses, stores, or generates hazardous
substances shall obtain the necessary permits or approval from the appropriate
Federal, State, or local authority having jurisdiction.
6.6.3. Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity operating a
business or conducting an activity which uses, stores, or generates hazardous
substances shall complete and file a Hazardous Chemicals Survey on a form
supplied by the Village in conjunction with the following:
   1.   Upon submission of a site plan.
   2.   Upon any change of use or occupancy of a structure or premise.
   3.    Upon any change of the manner in which such substances are handled,
and/or inthe event of a change in the type of substances to be handled.
6.6.4. All business and facilities which use, store, or generate hazardous
substances in quantities greater than 100 kilograms per month (equal to or
greater than 25 gallons or 220 pounds) shall comply with the following
standards:
   1.   Above-Ground Storage and Use Areas for Hazardous Substances.
      a.   Secondary containment of hazardous substances and polluting
materials shall be provided. Secondary containment shall be sufficiently
impervious to contain the substance for the maximum anticipated period of time
necessary for the recovery of any released substance.
      b.   Outdoor storage of hazardous substances and polluting materials
shall be prohibited except in product-tight containers which are protected from
weather, leakage, accidental damage, and vandalism.
      c.    Secondary containment structures such as out buildings, storage
rooms, sheds and pole barns shall not have floor drains.
      d.   Areas and facilities for loading/unloading of hazardous substances
and polluting materials, as well as areas where such materials are handled and
used shall be designed and constructed to prevent discharge or runoff.
   2.   Underground Storage Tanks - Existing and new underground storage tanks
shall be registered, installed, operated, maintained, and removed in accordance
with
      a.   requirements of the appropriate Federal, State, or local authority
having jurisdiction.
   3.   Loading and Unloading Areas.
      a.   Areas used for the loading and unloading of hazardous substances
shall be designed and constructed to prevent the harmful release to the
environment of hazardous materials which may be spilled or leaked.
6.6.5. All site plans for business or facilities which use, store or generate
hazardous substances shall be reviewed by the Fire Department, Village Engineer
and any other appropriate experts determined necessary by the Planning
Commission prior to approval by the Planning Commission.
Sec. 6.7 ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE, ELECTROMAGNETIC, OR RADIO FREQUENCY
INTERFERENCE
Section 6.7 Electrical Disturbance, Electromagnetic, or Radio Frequency
Interference.
No use shall create any electrical disturbance that adversely affects any
operations or equipment other than those of the creator of such disturbance, or
cause, create, or contribute to the interference with electronic signals
(including television and radio broadcasting transmission) to the extent that
the operation of any equipment not owned by the creator of such disturbance is
adversely affected.
Sec. 6.8 GLARE & EXTERIOR LIGHTING
6.8.1. Light and Glare from Indirect Sources.
   1.   Glare from any process (such as or similar to arc welding or acetylene
torch cutting) which emits harmful ultraviolet rays shall be performed in such
a manner as not to be seen from any point beyond the property line, and as not
to create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
   2.   The design and/or screening of the development shall insure that glare
from automobile and commercial or industrial vehicle headlights shall not be
directed into any adjacent property, particularly residential property.
   3.   Exterior doors shall be located, operated, and maintained so as to
prevent any glare and light from creating a nuisance or safety hazard to
operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and neighboring land uses.
6.8.2. Exterior Lighting from Direct Sources.
   1.    Subject to the provisions set forth herein, all parking areas,
walkways, driveways, building entryways, off-street parking and loading areas,
and building complexes with common areas shall be sufficiently illuminated to
ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using such public or
common areas.
   2.   Exterior lighting shall be located and maintained to prevent the
reflection and glare of light in a manner which created a nuisance or safety
hazard to operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and neighboring land uses.
This provision is not intended to apply to public street lighting.
   3.   The following additional standards shall apply:
      a.   Only white, non-glare lighting such as metal halide, color-corrected
high- pressure sodium, or other types of lighting which achieve the same effect
shall be permitted. Lighting shall be placed and shielded so as to direct the
light onto the site and away from adjoining properties. Lighting shall be
shielded so that it does not cause glare for motorists.
      b.   The light intensity provided at ground level shall be a minimum of
0.3 foot-candle anywhere in the area to be illuminated. Light intensity shall
average a minimum of 0.5 foot-candle over the entire area, measured five (5)
feet above the surface.
      c.   Except as noted below, lighting fixtures shall not exceed a height
of twenty-five (25) feet. In portions of a site adjacent to residential areas,
lighting fixtures shall not exceed a height of twenty (20) feet.
6.8.3. Architectural Lighting.
   1.   Illumination of buildings, monuments or flags shall not exceed fifteen
(15) foot-candles average maintained. All fixtures shall be shielded or
designed to prohibit glare from shining into any residential area, street, or
public right-of-way.
   2.   Unshielded luminous tube (neon), LED, incandescent or fluorescent
lighting shall be prohibited as an architectural detail on the exterior of any
structure; including but not limited to rooflines, cornices, eaves, windows,
and door openings. The Planning Commission may approve internally illuminated
architectural bands or similar shielded lighting accents as part of a site
plan, upon determining that such lighting accents would enhance the aesthetics
of the site and would not cause off-site glare or light pollution.
6.8.4. Window Lighting.
   1.   All interior light fixtures visible through a window from a public
right-of-way or adjacent property shall be shielded to prevent glare at the
property line or within a public right-of-way. Unshielded luminous tube (neon),
LED, incandescent and fluorescent light fixtures shall be prohibited where the
light source would be visible through the window from a public right-of-way or
adjacent property.
6.8.5. Prohibited Lighting Elements.
   1.   Running, chasing or otherwise intermittent lighting.
   2.   The internal illumination of translucent building-mounted canopies/
awnings.
   3.   The use of laser light sources, searchlights, or any similar high
intensity light.
6.8.6. Exemptions .
The following are exempt from the lighting requirements of this Section, except
that the Zoning Administrator may take steps to eliminate the impact of the
exempted items when deemed necessary to ensure that they will not interfere
with vehicular traffic or the enjoyment and use of adjacent properties:
   1.   Holiday decorations.
   2.   Window displays without glare.
   3.   Shielded pedestrian walkway lighting.
   4.   Residential lighting with no off-site glare
6.8.7. Sign Illumination.
   1.    The illumination of signs shall comply with all applicable
requirements of Article 8 (Signs).
6.8.8. Submittal Requirements.
   1.   All lighting, including ornamental lighting, shall be shown on site
plans in sufficient detail to allow determination of the effects of such
lighting upon adjacent properties, and traffic safety.
Sec. 6.9 FIRE HAZARD
Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive materials
shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire suppression equipment and
such safety devices as are normally used in the handling of any such material.
Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to a distance which
is compatible with the potential danger involved.
Sec. 6.10 SAFETY
Existing hazards or potential hazards and nuisances, such as construction
sites, junk yards, landfills, sanitary landfills, demolition sites, unused
basements, abandoned wells or cisterns and sand, gravel, and stone pits or
piles are to be enclosed by suitable fencing or barriers so as not to endanger
public health, safety, and welfare.
6.10.1 Containers and Dumpsters
   1.   Containers and dumpsters shall be consolidated to minimize the number
of collection sites, and located so as to reasonably equalize the distance from
the building they serve.
   2.   Containers and dumpsters shall be situated so that they do not cause
excessive nuisance or offense to occupants of nearby buildings.
   3.   Containers and dumpsters shall be located away from public view insofar
as possible.
Sec. 6.11 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
All developments and earth changes subject to review under the requirements of
this Ordinance shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to prevent
flooding and protect water quality. The particular facilities and measures
required on-site shall reflect the natural features, wetlands, and watercourses
on the site; the potential for on-site and off- site flooding, water pollution,
and erosion; and the size of the site.
Storm water Management shall comply with the following standards:
   1.   The design of storm sewers, detention facilities, and other storm water
management facilities shall comply with the standards for green site
technology.
   2.   Storm water management conveyance, storage and infiltration measures
and facilities shall be designed to prevent flood hazards and water pollution
related to storm water runoff and soil erosion from the proposed development.
   3.   The use of swales and vegetated buffer strips is encouraged in cases
where the Planning Commission deems to be safe and otherwise appropriate as a
method of storm water conveyance so as to decrease runoff velocity, allow for
natural infiltration, allow suspended sediment particles to settle, and to
remove pollutants.
   4.   Alterations to natural drainage patterns shall not create flooding or
water pollution for adjacent or downstream property owners.
   5.   Discharge of runoff from any site which may contain oil, grease, toxic
chemicals, or other polluting materials is prohibited. If a property owner
desires to propose measures to reduce and trap pollutants, the owner must meet
the requirements of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. Based
upon professionally accepted principles, such a proposal shall be submitted and
reviewed by the Village Engineer, with consultation of appropriate experts.
   6.    Drainage systems shall be designed to protect public health and safety
and to be visually attractive, taking into consideration viable alternatives.
6.11.2. On-Site Storm water Detention.
For the purpose of controlling drainage to off-site properties and drainage
ways, all properties which are developed under this zoning ordinance, whether
new or improved shall provide for on-site detention storage of storm water in
accordance with the current Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
standards.
Sec. 6.12 REGULATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
6.12.1. Purpose.
   1.   The floodplains of the Village are subject to periodic inundation of
floodwaters which result in loss of property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental service, and impairment of tax base.
   2.   It is the purpose of this section to comply with the provisions and
requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program, as constituted in
accordance with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, and subsequent
enactments and rules and regulations promulgated in furtherance of this program
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), as published in the Federal
Register, Vol. 41, No. 207, October 26, 1976, and re-designated at 44FR 31177,
May 31, 1979.
   3.   The provisions of this section are intended to:
      a.   help protect human life, prevent, or minimize material losses, and
reduce the cost to the public for rescue and relief efforts;
      b.   restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      c.   require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, shall be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;
      d.   protect individuals from buying lands which are designated to be
unsuited for intended purposes because of flooding;
      e.   permit reasonable economic use of property located within a
designated floodplain area.
6.12.2 . Delineation of Floodplain Areas.
   1.   Designated floodplain areas shall overlay existing zoning districts
delineated on the Zoning District Map of the Village. The boundaries of the
floodplain areas are identified in the report entitled, the Flood Insurance
Study, Village of Lexington, prepared by FEMA with an effective date of January
6, 2012, a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) produced by FEMA that shows the
floodplain boundary, the base flood elevation (587 feet or such other
applicable elevation as determined by the appropriate governmental authority)
and the special hazard areas (SFHA’s) which are labeled as Zone AE and the
community panel (map) number 26151C0494B. The flood insurance study, the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) and the community panel map as revised from time to
time are adopted by reference, appended, and declared to be part of this
Ordinance.
   2.   The standard applied to establishing the floodplain area is the base
floodplain delineated by the base flood. In areas associated with ravine
flooding, a floodway is designated within the floodplain area.
   3.   Where there are disputes as to the location of a floodplain area
boundary, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall resolve the dispute in accordance
with Article 11.0.
6.12.3 . Application of Regulations.
   1.   In addition to other requirements of this Ordinance applicable to
development in the underlying zoning district, compliance with the requirements
of this section shall be necessary for all development occurring within
designated floodplain areas. Conflicts between the requirements of this section
and other requirements of this Ordinance
   2.    or any other Ordinance shall be resolved in favor of this section,
except where the conflicting requirement is more stringent and would further
the objectives of this section. In such cases, the more stringent requirement
shall be applied.
   3.   Upon application for land use permits, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine whether said use is located within a designated floodplain area
utilizing the documents cited in Section
6.12.2. The issuance of a land use permit within the floodplain area shall
comply with the following standards:
   a.   The requirements of this section shall be met;
   b.   The requirement of the underlying districts and all other applicable
provisions of this Ordinance shall be met; and
      c.   All necessary development permits shall have been issued by
appropriate Local, State, and Federal authorities, including a floodplain
permit, approval, or letter of authority from the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources under authority of Act 245, Public Acts of 1929, as amended
by Act 167, Public Acts of 1968. Where a development permit cannot be issued
prior to the issuance of a zoning compliance permit, a letter from the issuing
agency indicating intent to issue contingent only upon proof of zoning
compliance shall be acceptable.
   4.   Floodplain Management Administrative Duties.
      a.   With regard to the National Flood Insurance Program, and the
regulation of development within the flood hazard area zone as prescribed in
Section
6.12.4, the duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but are not
limited to;
         i.   Notification to adjacent communities and the Department of
Natural Resources of the proposed alteration or relocation of any watercourse,
and the submission of such notifications to the Federal Insurance
Administration;
         ii.   Verification and recording of the actual elevation in relation
to mean sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures constructed within the flood hazard area, and
in the case of flood proofed structures, the elevation to which the structure
was flood proofed; and
         iii.   Recording of all certificates of flood proofing, and written
notification to all applicants to whom variances are granted in flood hazard
area zone indicating the terms of the variance. A record of all variance
notifications and variance actions shall be maintained together with the
justification for each variance.
      b.   All records and maps pertaining to the National Flood Insurance
Program shall be maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall
be open for public inspection.
      c.   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to obtain
and utilize the best available flood hazard data for purposes of administering
the Ordinance in the absence of data from FEMA.
6.12.4. Floodplain Standard and Requirements.
   1.   The following general standards and requirements shall be applied to
all uses proposed to be located within the floodplain area:
      a.   All new construction and substantial improvements within a
floodplain, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes, shall;
         i.   Be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure;
         ii.    Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant
to flood damage;
         iii.    Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
      b.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
      c.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
systems into flood waters.
      d.   All public utilities and facilities shall be designed, constructed,
and located to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      e.   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      f.   The Village Engineer or his representative shall review development
proposals to determine compliance with the standards in this section and shall
transmit his determination to the Zoning Administrator.
      g.   Land shall not be divided in a manner creating parcels or lots which
cannot be used in conformance with the requirements of this Article.
      h.   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
not subject to state and Federal regulations designed to ensure flood carrying
capacity shall be maintained.
      i.   Available flood hazard data from Federal, state, or other sources,
shall be reasonably utilized in meeting the standards of this section. Data
furnished by FEMA shall take precedence over data from other sources.
   2.   The following specific standards shall be applied to all uses proposed
to be located within the floodplain area but not within the floodway portion of
the floodplain area.
      a.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall have either;
         i.   The lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one-tenth
(0.1) foot above the base flood level;
         ii.   Be constructed such that below base flood level, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this subparagraph are satisfied, and that
the flood proofing methods employed are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated
with base flood in the location of the structure.
   3.   Mobile Home Standards: The following general standards and requirements
shall be applied to mobile homes located within flood plain areas:
      a.   Anchoring must meet HUD specifications, per rule 605.
      b.   An evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape
routes shall be filed with the Village and Sanilac County Sheriff Department
for mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions.
      c.   Mobile homes within zones A1-30 on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
shall be located in accord with the following standards;
         i.    All mobile homes shall be placed on stands or lots which are
elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile
home will be at or above the base flood level.
         ii.    Adequate surface drainage away from all structures and access
for a mobile home hauler shall be provided.
         iii.   In the instance of elevation on pilings, lots shall be large
enough to permit steps, piling foundations shall be placed in stable soil no
more than ten (10) feet apart; and reinforcement shall be provided for piers
more than six (6) feet above ground level.
         iv.    In mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions which exist
at the time this subsection is adopted, where repair, reconstruction, or
improvement of streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds fifty (50%)
percent of the value of the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, the
standards in the subparagraphs above shall be complied with.
   4.    The following standards shall be applied to all uses proposed to be
located within the floodway portion of the floodplain area.
      a.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development shall be prohibited. Exception to this
prohibition shall only be made upon certification by a registered professional
engineer or the Department of Natural Resources that the development proposed
will not result in any increases in flood levels during a base flood discharge,
and compliance with Act 245, Public Acts of 1929, as amended by Act 167, Public
Acts of 1968.
      b.   The placement of mobile homes shall be prohibited.
      c.   The uses of land permitted in an underlying zoning district shall
not be constructed as being permitted within the regulatory floodway, except
upon compliance with the provisions of this section.
6.12.5. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1.    The degree of flood protection required by provisions of this section
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering
and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions.
   2.    These provisions do not imply that areas outside the floodplain or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages nor shall the Village or any officer or employee thereof be liable for
any flood damages that result from reliance on the provisions of this section,
or any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
Sec. 6.13 BUILDING GRADES
6.13.1. Any building requiring yard space shall be located at such an elevation
that a finished grade shall be maintained to cause the flow of surface water to
run away from the walls of the building. All grades shall be established and
maintained so that surface water run- off damage does not occur to adjoining
properties prior to, during, and after construction.
6.13.2. When a new building is constructed on a vacant lot between two (2)
existing buildings or adjacent to an existing building, the Building Official
shall use the existing established finished grade or the minimum established
grade, in determining the proper grade around the new building. The yard around
the new building shall be graded in such a manner as to meet existing codes and
to preclude normal run-off of surface water to flow onto the adjacent property.
6.13.3. Final grades shall be approved by the Building Official who may require
a grading plan which has been duly completed and certified by a registered
engineer or land surveyor.
Sec. 6.14 SHORELINE/WATER PROTECTION
6.14.1. Purpose.
It is the purpose of this section to protect the waters of Lake Huron and its
shoreline as a community resource to which the welfare and prosperity of
village residents are dependent.
6.14.2. Delineation of Shoreline Protection Areas.
   1.   All properties adjacent to Lake Huron within the boundaries of the
Village with the exception of those parcels contiguous to the inner Harbor and
that are also within the Harbor break walls. Maps that show the parcels that
are excluded from the shoreline protection area are available from the zoning
administrator.
6.14.3. Natural Resource Management
   1.   No building or structure shall be built, located, relocated, or
constructed within the 100-year floodplain as determined by FEMA [currently
lakeward of FEMA, B.F.E. 587, DAVD 88, also refer to Section 6.12.2. of a
shoreline protection area with the exception of:
      a.   Engineered non recreational shoreline protection or erosion control
structures, such as seawalls, jetties, breakwaters, groins, bulkheads, and
revetments erected for land conservation purposes and permitted by the MDEQ
and/or USACE.
      b.   Accessory buildings as permitted in Section
5.4.1.
   2.   A natural vegetation strip shall be maintained within 10 feet of the
water’s edge of tributaries which empty into Lake Huron and within 25 feet
landward of the natural Lake Huron beachfront sand. Existing soil and organic
matter shall not be altered or disturbed within the natural vegetation strip.
Shrubbery, trees, or other vegetation shall be preserved as far as practicable
and when removed shall be replaced with other naturally occurring vegetation
that is equally effective in retarding runoff, preventing erosion, and
preserving natural beauty. * A mowed lawn shall not serve as a desirable
vegetation strip adjacent to the shoreline. It shall be the landowner’s
responsibility to maintain this vegetation belt in a healthy state.
*OURS TO PROTECT, Appendix B for Best Management Practices and additional
guidelines (available at Village Office)
***** ARTICLE 7: PUD-PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT *****
Sec. 7.1 PURPOSE & INTENT
Planned Unit Development (PUD) district regulations are intended to provide for
various types of land uses planned in a manner which shall; encourage the use
of land in accordance with its character and adaptability; conserve natural
resources and energy; encourage innovation in land use planning; provide
enhanced housing, employment, shopping, traffic circulation and recreational
opportunities for the people of the Village; and bring about a greater
compatibility of design and use. The provisions of this Article provide
enabling authority and standards for the submission, review, and approval of
applications for planned unit developments.
Sec. 7.2 PUD REGULATIONS
7.2.1. A planned unit development (PUD) may be applied for in any zoning
district. The grant of a planned unit development application shall require a
rezoning by way of amendment of this Ordinance upon the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and approval of the Village Council.
7.2.2. Any land use authorized in this Ordinance may be included in a planned
unit development, subject to adequate public health, safety, and welfare
protection mechanisms being designed into the development to ensure the
compatibility of varied land uses both within and outside the development.
7.2.3. The applicant for a planned unit development must demonstrate all of the
following criteria as a condition to being entitled to planned unit development
treatment:
   1.   Grant of the planned unit development will result in one of the
following:
      a.   A recognizable and material benefit to the ultimate users of the
project and to the community, where such benefit would otherwise be unfeasible
or unlikely to be achieved without application of the planned unit development
regulations; or
      b.   Long-term protection and preservation of natural resources and
natural features of a significant quantity and/or quality, where such benefit
would otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be achieved without application of
the planned unit development regulations; or
      c.   A non-conforming use shall, to a material extent, be rendered more
conforming, or less offensive, to the zoning district in which it is situated.
   2.   The proposed type and density of use shall not result in an
unreasonable increase in the need for or burden upon public services,
facilities, streets, and utilities.
   3.   The proposed development shall be consistent with the public health,
safety and welfare of the Village.
   4.   The proposed development shall be consistent with adjacent circulation
patterns or there should be stub streets to accommodate the traditional street
patterns that could be developed on adjacent parcels.
   5.   The proposed development shall not result in an unreasonable negative
environmental impact on the subject site or surrounding land.
   6.   The proposed development shall not result in an unreasonable negative
economic impact upon surrounding properties.
   7.   The proposed development shall be under single ownership and/or control
such that there is a single person having responsibility for completing the
project in conformity with this Ordinance.
   8.   The proposed development shall be consistent with the Goals and
Policies of the General Development Plan.
Sec. 7.3 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW
7.3.1. Pre-application Conference.
Prior to the submission of an application for planned unit development
approval, the applicant shall meet with the Zoning Administrator, together with
any staff and consultants the Administrator deems appropriate. The applicant
shall present at such conference, or conferences, at least a sketch plan of the
proposed planned unit development, as well as the following information: Total
number of acres in the project; a statement of the number of residential units,
if any; the number and type of non-residential uses, the number of acres to be
occupied by each type of use; the known deviations from ordinance regulations
to be sought; the number of acres to be preserved as open or recreational
space; and, all known natural resources and natural features to be preserved.
7.3.2. Preliminary Plan.
Following the Pre-application Conference, the applicant shall submit a
preliminary site plan of the proposed planned unit development. The preliminary
site plan shall be prepared in accordance with the standard set forth in
Section
3.4.2. A narrative report shall accompany the site plan providing a description
of the project, discussing the market concept and feasibility of the project,
and explaining the manner in which the criteria set forth in Section
7.1 have been met.
   1.   Planning Commission Action. The Preliminary Plan shall be noticed for
public hearing as a zoning amendment before the Planning Commission. Following
the hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the preliminary site plan and
shall take one of the following actions:
   2.   Approval. Upon finding that the Preliminary Plan meets the criteria and
standards set forth in Section
7.1 and
7.2, the Planning Commission shall grant preliminary approval. Approval shall
constitute approval of the uses and design concept as shown on the Preliminary
Plan and shall confer upon the applicant the right to proceed to preparation of
the Final Plan.
   3.   Approval of the Preliminary Plan by the Planning Commission shall not
constitute rezoning of the property to PUD nor bind the Village Council to
approval of the Final Plan.
   4.   Tabling. Upon finding that the Preliminary Plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in Sections
7.1 and
7.2, but could meet such criteria if revised, the Planning Commission may table
action until a revised Preliminary Plan is resubmitted.
   5.   Denial. Upon finding that the Preliminary Plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in Sections
7.1 and
7.2, the Planning Commission shall deny preliminary approval.
7.3.3. Final Plan.
Within six (6) months following receipt of the Planning Commission comments on
the preliminary plan, the applicant shall submit a final plan and supporting
materials conforming with this Section. If a final plan is not submitted by the
applicant for final approval within six (6) months following receipt of
Planning Commission comments, the preliminary plan approval becomes null and
void.
   1.    Information Required. A final site plan and application for a PUD
shall contain the following information:
      a.   A site plan meeting all requirements of Section
3.4.3, Final Site Plan.
      b.   A separately delineated specification of all deviations from this
ordinance which would otherwise be applicable to the uses and development
proposed in the absence of this planned unit development article.
      c.   A specific schedule of the intended development and construction
details, including phasing or timing.
      d.   A specific schedule of the general improvements to constitute a part
of the development, including, without limitation, lighting, signage, the
mechanisms designed to reduce noise, utilities, and visual screening features.
      e.   A specification of the exterior building materials with respect to
the structures proposed in the project.
      f.   Signatures of all parties having an interest in the property.
   2.   Planning Commission and Action. The final plan shall constitute an
application to amend this Ordinance and shall be noticed for public hearing as
a zoning amendment before the Planning Commission, and otherwise acted upon by
the Planning Commission, and the Village Council, as provided by law.
      a.   Approval. Upon finding that the Final Plan meets the criteria and
standards set forth in Sections
7.1 and
7.2, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval to the Village Council.
      b.    Tabling. Upon finding that the Final Plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in Sections
7.1 and
7.2, but could meet such criteria if revised, the Planning Commission may take
action until a revised Final Plan is resubmitted.
      c.   Denial. Upon finding that the final plan does not meet the criteria
and standards set forth in Sections
7.1 and
7.2, the Planning Commission shall recommend denial to the Village Council.
      d.   The Planning Commission shall, to the extent it deems appropriate,
submit detailed recommendations relative to the planned unit development
project including, without limitation, recommendations with respect to matters
on which the Village Council must exercise discretion.
   3.   Village Council Action. Upon receiving a recommendation from the
Planning Commission, the Village Council shall review the Final Plan. Taking
into consideration the recommendations of the Planning Commission and the
criteria and standards set forth in Sections
7.1 and
7.2, the Village Council shall approve, table, or deny the Final Plan.
   4.   Prior to approval of a Final Plan, the Village Council shall require
all standards and conditions of approval to be incorporated in a Development
Agreement. The Agreement shall be prepared by the Village Attorney, approved by
the Village Council, and signed by both the Village and the Applicant.
Sec. 7.4 PROJECT DESIGN STANDARDS
7.4.1. Residential Design Standards.
   1.   Residential density shall not be greater than the maximum density
permitted in the zoning district in which the property is situated immediately
prior to classification under this Article. Additional density for residential
uses may be allowed in the discretion of the Village Council upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission and based upon a demonstration by the
applicant of consistency with the General Development Plan and of planning and
design excellence resulting in a material benefit to the Village, adjacent land
uses, and/or the ultimate users of the project, where such benefit would
otherwise be unlikely to be achieved without the application of the PUD
regulations, including, without limitation, innovative design producing
significant energy efficiency, pedestrian or vehicular safety, long term
aesthetic beauty, and protection and preservation of natural resources and
features.
   2.   Residential street layout patterns shall be consistent with the
traditional street patterns as established in the Village in order to meet the
intent of this Ordinance as outlined in Section 1.2 of this Ordinance.
7.4.2. Non-Residential Design Standards.
   1.   Non-residential uses may be permitted in combination with other non-
residential uses or as part of a common development with residential uses.
   2.   The non-residential uses, including parking and vehicular traffic ways,
shall be separated, and buffered from residential units in a manner consistent
with good land and community planning principles.
   3.   Nonresidential properties in excess of 200 feet in width along an
existing right-of-way shall provide at least on side street right-of-way to
permit access to the property to the rear of the nonresidential parcel.
7.4.3. General Design Standards.
   1.   All regulations applicable to setbacks, parking and loading, general
provisions, and other requirements shall be met in relation to each respective
land use in the development based upon zoning districts in which the use is
listed as a Principal Permitted Use. In all cases, the strictest provisions
shall apply. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, deviations
with respect to such regulation may be granted as part of the overall approval
of the planned unit development, provided there are features or elements
demonstrated by the applicant and deemed adequate by the Village Council upon
the recommendation of the Planning Commission designed into the project plan
for the purpose of achieving the objectives of this Article.
   2.   To the maximum extent feasible, the development shall be designed so as
to preserve the natural resources and natural features. The benefit which would
reasonably be expected to accrue from the proposal shall be balanced against
the reasonably foreseeable detriments of the activity, taking into
consideration the local, state, and national concern for the protection and
preservation of the natural resources or features and the following criteria:
      a.   The availability of feasible and prudent alternative methods of
accomplishing any development.
      b.   The extent and permanence of the beneficial or detrimental effects
of the proposed activity.
      c.   The size, quality and rarity of the natural resources or natural
features which would be impaired or destroyed.
   3.   There shall be a perimeter setback and berming, as found to be
necessary by the Village, for the purpose of buffering the development in
relation to surrounding properties. If the planned unit development project
includes non-residential uses adjacent to a district authorizing residential
uses, and/or if the project is larger than one acre in area, such perimeter
setback shall be established with a dimension from the property line of up to
one hundred (100) feet in the discretion of the Village Council, taking into
consideration the use or uses in and adjacent to the development. The setback
distance need not be uniform at all points on the perimeter of the development.
   4.   Thoroughfare, drainage, and utility design shall meet or exceed the
standards otherwise applicable in connection with each of the respective types
of uses served.
   5.   There shall be underground installation of utilities, including
electricity and telephone, as found necessary by the Village.
   6.   Pedestrian walkways shall be separated from vehicular circulation, as
found necessary by the Village.
   7.   Signage, lighting, landscaping, building materials for the exterior of
all structure, and other features of the project, shall be designed and
completed with the objective of achieving an integrated and controlled
development, consistent with the character of the community, surrounding
development or developments, and natural features of the area.
   8.   Where non-residential uses adjoin off-site residentially zoned
property, noise reduction and visual screening mechanisms such as earthen and/
or landscape berms and/or decorative walls, shall be employed. The Village, in
its discretion, shall review and approve the design and location of such
mechanisms.
   9.   The Village Council upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission
shall resolve all ambiguities as to applicable regulations using the Zoning
Ordinance, General Development Plan, and other Village standards or policies as
a guide.
Sec. 7.5 CONDITIONS
7.5.1. Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of a planned
unit development, to the extent authorized by law, for the purpose of ensuring
that public services and facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity
will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by
the land use or activity, protecting the natural environment and conserving
natural resources and energy, ensuring compatibility with adjacent uses of
land, and promoting the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner.
7.5.2. Conditions imposed shall be designed to protect natural resources and
the public health, safety, and welfare of individuals in the project and those
immediately adjacent, and the community as a whole; reasonably related to the
purposes affected by the planned unit development; and, necessary to meet the
intent and purpose of this Ordinance and be related to the objective of
ensuring compliance with the standards of this Ordinance. All conditions
imposed shall be made a part of the record of the approved planned unit
development.
Sec. 7.6 PHASING & COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION
7.6.1. Phasing.
Where a project is proposed for construction in phases, the planning and
designing shall be such that, upon completion, each phase shall be capable of
standing on its own in terms of the presence of services, facilities, and open
space, and shall contain the necessary components to ensure protection of
natural resources and the health, safety, and welfare of the users of the
planned unit development and the residents of the surrounding area. In
addition, in developments which include residential and non- residential uses,
the relative mix of uses and the scheduled completion of construction for each
phase shall be disclosed and determined to be reasonable in the discretion of
the Village Council after recommendation from the Planning Commission.
7.6.2. Commencement and Completion of Construction.
To ensure completion of required improvements, the Village is authorized to
impose performance guarantees in accordance with Section
3.7. Construction shall be commenced within one (1) year following final
approval of a planned unit development and shall proceed substantially in
conformance with the schedule set forth by the applicant, as required by
Section
7.2.3 If construction is not commenced within such time, any approval of a site
plan on the project shall expire and be null and void, provided, an extension
for a specified period may be granted by the Village Council upon good cause
shown if such request is made to the Village Council prior to the expiration of
the initial period. Moreover, in the event a site plan has expired, the Village
Council, based on a recommendation from the Planning Commission, shall be
authorized to rezone the property in any reasonable manner, and, if the
property remains classified as PUD, a new application shall be required, and
shall be reviewed in light of then existing and applicable law and ordinance
provisions.
Sec. 7.7 EFFECT OF APPROVAL
Section 7.7 Effect of Approval.
When approved, the planned unit development amendment, with all conditions
imposed, if any, shall constitute the land use authorization for the property,
and all improvement and use shall be in conformity with such amendment. Notice
of adoption of the final PUD plan and conditions shall be recorded by the
applicant at the Sanilac County Register of Deeds, evidence of which shall be
supplied to the Zoning Administrator.
***** ARTICLE 8: SIGNS *****
Sec. 8.1 INTENT & PURPOSE
Section 8.1 Intent and Purpose.
It is hereby determined that a proliferation of signs in the Village of
Lexington is unduly distracting to motorists and pedestrians, creates a traffic
hazard, and reduces the effectiveness of signs needed to direct and warn the
public. It is also determined that the appearance of the Village is damaged by
a proliferation of signs, which restricts light and air. It is further
determined that a proliferation of signs negatively affects property values and
also results in an inappropriate use of land.
The purpose of this Article is to control the occurrence and size of signs in
order to reduce the aforementioned negative effects. It is also determined that
the signs of least value to people within the Village are those which carry
commercial message other than the advertisement of a product, service, event,
person, institution, or business located on the premise where the sign is
located or indicate the sale or rental of such premise. It is also determined
that the regulations contained herein are the minimum amount of regulation
necessary to implement the purpose and intent of this Article. It is also
further determined that restrictions in this Article and/or other Articles on
the size of signs and/or their height and placement on real estate are the
minimum amount necessary to achieve their purpose.
Sec. 8.2 PERMIT
Section 8.2 Permit
   1.   Required. A sign permit shall be required for the erection,
construction, or alteration of any sign, except as provided in this article,
and all such signs shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator as to
compliance with the requirements of the zoning district wherein such sign is to
be located with the requirements of this article and with all applicable
regulations as set forth by the county building department. All illuminated
signs are additionally subject to the provisions of the county electrical code
and any permit fees required there under.
   2.   Application contents requisites.
      a.   Name and address of the applicant.
      b.   Location of the building, structure, or lot to which the sign is to
be attached or erected.
      c.   Position of the sign in relation to the neighboring buildings or
structures and to the property lines.
      d.   One blueprint or ink drawing of the plans and specifications for the
method of construction, materials to be used and/or attachment to the building
or ground.
      e.   Names of persons erecting the structures.
      f.   Written consent of the owner of the building or structure to which
or on which the sign is to be erected.
      g.   An electrical permit (if required) attached to the permit
application.
      h.   Such other information as the zoning administrator or the building
inspector deems necessary to show full compliance with this article.
   3.   Issuance. If, upon examination of the submitted plans and other data,
it appears, that the proposed sign is in compliance with all the requirements
of this chapter, the zoning administrator shall issue a sign permit. If the
work authorized under said permit has not been completed within six (6) months
after the date of issuance, the permit will be null and void.
   4.   Revocation. All rights and privileges acquired under this article are
mere licenses revocable at any time, and all such permits shall contain this
provision.
   5.   Unsafe, unlawful signs: Inspection authority. If the zoning
administrator finds that a sign/mural is unsafe or is a menace to the public or
has been constructed or erected or is maintained in violation of this article
or contains any offensive, obscene, indecent, or immoral matter, determined as
such by the village, he/she shall give written notice to the owner of said
sign. If the owner fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with
this article within ten days after such notice, the sign shall be removed or
altered by the village at the expense of the owner. The village may cause any
sign, which is an immediate peril to persons or property, to be removed
immediately and without notice.
Sec. 8.3 EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT
No sign shall be erected, constructed, and maintained until a permit for the
sign has been issued by the zoning administrator, unless otherwise noted in
this article; provided no permit will be required for the following:
   1.   Nameplates not exceeding four (4) square feet in size.
   2.   Political signs for public office or issues to be determined by
election may be erected Forty-five (45) days prior to an election. Such signs
shall be erected on private property only and no less than one hundred (100)
feet from any entrance to a building in which a polling place is located. No
signs shall be placed in public rights- of-way. All such political signs must
be removed within five (5) days following Election Day. Size of signs are
limited as follows:
      a.    Sixteen (16) square feet in R-1, R-2, R-3, MHP, C-MU, G-MU, and CBD
districts.
      b.   Thirty-two (32) square feet ft. in GC, I-MU, and AG districts.
   3.   Real estate signs for land or buildings for rent, lease, or sale in any
district provided such signs are located on the property intended to be rented,
leased, or sold. Sizes of signs are limited as follows:
      a.    Sixteen (16) square feet in R-1, R-2, R-3, MHP, C-MU, G-MU, and CBD
districts.
      b.   Thirty-two (32) square feet in GC, I-MU, and AG districts.
   4.   Directional signs which indicate the direction of traffic flow on
private property. Directional signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in
size and shall contain no advertising but may be illuminated.
   5.   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, danger signs and such
temporary, emergency, or non-advertising signs as may be approved by the
village council.
   6.   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions when
bulletin boards are located on the premises of the institution. Sizes of signs
are limited as follows:
      a.    Sixteen (16) square feet in R-1, R-2, R-3, MHP C-MU, G-MU, and CBD
districts.
      b.   Thirty-two (32) square feet in GC, I-MU, and AG districts.
   7.   One (1) non-illuminated freestanding sign listing persons or firms
connected with development or construction work being performed on a premise
with a valid building permit. Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet in R-1, R-2, R-3, MHP, C-MU, G MU, and CBD districts or thirty-two (32)
square feet in GC, I-MU, and AG districts. Further, such signs shall be removed
within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   8.   Signs advertising essential services, such as landscaping, carpet
cleaning, etc. are allowed in all districts for a time period of no more than
the period of time the service is actively being performed and shall not exceed
four (4) square feet.
   9.   The exemptions provided for in this section shall apply only to the
requirement for a permit and shall not be construed as relieving the owner of
the sign from the responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a good
safe condition.
Sec. 8.4 DEFINITIONS
Refer to Section
2.2 for the definition of sign and various types of signs.
Sec. 8.5 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WALL & FREE-STANDING SIGNS
8.5.1. Wall Sign General Requirements.
   1.   One (1) wall sign shall be permitted per premise. One (1) additional
wall sign may be permitted if at least one of the following conditions exists:
      a.   The premise has frontage on more than one public roadway.
      b.   The premise includes a building with more than one wall providing an
individual means of access to the public.
      c.   The premise includes a building where the only means of access to
the public is provided from a wall other than the front wall.
Where two (2) wall signs are permitted, the total allowable square footage of
the two (2) wall signs in combination shall not exceed one-hundred fifty (150%)
percent of the maximum allowable square footage for the District as specified
in Section
8.6.
   2.   For premises containing a building(s) with distinct and separate uses,
one (1) wall sign shall be permitted for each store front. However, no
individual sign shall exceed the maximum allowable square footage for the
District as specified in Section
8.6
8.5.2. Free Standing Sign General Requirements.
   1.    One (1) free-standing sign shall be permitted per premise which has
frontage on only one public roadway.
   2.    Two (2) free-standing signs shall be permitted per premise which has
frontage on two (2) public roads. One (1) sign shall not exceed the area
requirements set forth herein. The second sign shall not exceed fifty (50%)
percent of the area requirements as set forth herein and shall be placed at
least one hundred (100) feet from the first sign and along the other street.
   3.   A free-standing sign shall have a minimum setback of five (5) feet from
a public road right-of-way and a setback distance equal to the height of the
sign from all other boundaries.
   4.   A free-standing sign which advertises multi-businesses located on that
property may have a sign one hundred fifty (150%) percent larger than otherwise
permitted. The supporting structure shall not be more than one (1) foot higher
than the height of the permitted sign.
   5.   Signage on awnings is regulated as wall signs except where the signage
is limited to the height and width of the awning rather than the supporting
wall.
8.5.3. Sandwich Board Sign General Requirements
   1.   In addition to other signs permitted for a business, one (1) sandwich
board sign is also permitted per premise which has frontage on a public
roadway.
   2.   Two (2) signs will be permitted per premise which has frontage on two
(2) public roadways.
8.5.4 Murals
See chart in Section
8.6.1 for requirements.
Sec. 8.6 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR WALL SIGNS, FREE-STANDING SIGNS & MURALS
Wall signs, Free-Standing signs and murals shall be permitted by the District
in accordance with the following regulations:
8.6.1 District, Height, & Width Requirements & Area:
Type of Sign/District Maximum Height & Width Maximum Area and Additional
                                             Requirements
Type of Sign/  Maximum
District       Height  Maximum Area and Additional Requirements
               & Width
Wall and Free
Standing
Signs: All
non-
residential    Six (6)
permitted and  feet in
special uses   height
such as        and     One (I) square foot for each lineal foot of building wall not to
schools,       Eight   exceed a total of twenty-four (24) square feet.
churches,      (8)
parks and      feet in
municipal      width
buildings
within the AG,
R-1 , R-2,R-
3 and MHP
Districts.
Free Standing
Signs:         Four
Identification (4) ft.
signs for      in
residential    height) Twenty-four (24) square feet.
developments   and six
within the AG, (6)
R-1, R-2, R-   feet in
3 and          width
MHP Districts.
                       1) Not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the net wall surface
               Four    (per side) or thirty-two (32) square width feet, whichever is
               (4)     less.
               feet in 2) Signage shall be addressed in the site plan, Including: a
Wall Signs:    height  detailed schematic of the proposed sign, dimensions, a color
CBD, C-MU and  and     rendition of the completed sign and all detail for lighting. (if
G-MU Districts eight   any)
               (8) ft. 3) No flashing or blinking lettering or graphics
               in      4) The premises shall have no current zoning violations.
                       5) A written maintenance plan must be on file in the Village
                       office.
               Four    I) Not to exceed one (I) square foot for each lineal building wall
               (4) ft. or thirty-two (32) square feet, whichever is less.
               in      2) Signage shall be addressed in the site plan, Including: a
               height  detailed schematic of the proposed sign, dimensions, a color
Wall Signs: GC and     rendition of the completed sign and all detail for lighting. (if
Districts      eight   any)
               (8) ft. 3) No flashing or blinking lettering or graphics.
               in foot 4) The prem ises shall have no current zoning violations.
               of      5) A written maintenance plan must be on file in the Village
               width   office.
                       I) Sign area shall not exceed a total of forty-eight (48) square
               Six (6) ft.
               feet in 2) The placement of the sign shall not endanger traffic, safety,
Free Standing  height  public health, safety or general welfare.
Signs: CBD, C- and     3) The premises shall have no uncorrected current zoning
MU, G-MU and   eight   violations
GC Districts   (8)     4) No flashing or blinking graphics.
               feet in 5) No flashing or blinking graphics.
               width   6) Only advertisement shall be displayed which is subsequent to
                       the primary business at the location.
                       1. Requires a Special Land Use Permit but without the need for a
                       Site Plan.
                       2. A detailed drawing of the mural and exact specifications,
                       including placement on the building and lighting if applicable,
                       must be provided with the Special Land Use Permit for approval.
                       3. A maintenance plan must be provided with the Special land Use
                       Permit and include, but not limited to, the corrective actions,
                       and timeline to perform the actions, if the mural is damaged or
                       defaced in any manner.
                       4. The property owner shall assume, in writing, full
                       responsibility for the maintenance, restoration, and removal of
                       the mural. If the burden is placed on the Village, the method of
                       said maintenance, restoration, and removal shall be at the
                       discretion of the Village and the property owner will be assessed
                       for all related fees and costs.
Murals: CBD            5. The placement of the mural shall not endanger traffic safety,
AND C-MU              public health, safety, or general welfare.
                       6. The building shall have no uncorrected current zoning
                       violations, nor shall the mural be placed on any building or
                       structure that includes non- conforming signs.
                       7. The mural, and its location, shall be appropriate in appearance
                       with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity
                       and will not change the essential character of the area.
                       8. A mural and a wall sign cannot exist on the same wall.
                       9. Advertising of specific services, goods, products, businesses,
                       events, or political messages is not permitted.
                       10.The mural must be static. If illuminated, the mural shall be
                       indirectly lit and must comply with Article 6 Section 8.2.2 (Glare
                       and Exterior Lighting). No flashing or blinking lights or
                       graphics.
                       11. Any digital link on or in the proximity of the mural shall be
                       under the control of the village and shall be no larger than 12”
                       square.
               Four
               (4)
               feet in
Sandwich Board height
Signs: CBD, C- and not 1. The sign must be of a temporary nature and be removed daily at
MU, GC, G-MU,  to      the close of business or no later than 9:00 PM.
MHP and        exceed  2. Must be kept in good repair.
I-MU Districts thirty
               (30)
               inches
               in
               width.
               Eight
               (8) ft.
Wall and Free  in
Standing       height  One square foot for each lineal foot of building wall not to
Signs: I-MU    and     exceed a total of seventy-two (72) square feet.
Districts      nine
               (9) ft.
               in
               width
 
Sec. 8.7 PERMITTED PROJECTING SIGNS
8.7.1. Projecting signs shall be permitted in CBD (Central Business District),
C-MU, and GC Districts.
8.7.2. The surface area of the projecting sign shall not exceed twenty (20)
square feet on each side or a total of forty (40) square feet. The total square
feet of the projecting sign (both sides) shall be subtracted from the total
allowable wall signage square footage permitted for the District in which the
sign is located.
8.7.3. The bottom of the projecting sign shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet
above the surface of the sidewalk or ground area, or otherwise be located so as
not to interfere with pedestrian traffic.
8.7.4. A permitted projecting sign may extend past the roofline or the side of
the building not more than two (2) feet, providing that the portion of the sign
that projects past the roofline or the side of the building does not interfere
with the sight of clear vis ion of the surrounding businesses or impede a clear
line of vision for the orderly flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Projecting signs shall not be located closer to the ground than ten (10) feet.
Sec. 8.8 PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS & PROMOTIONAL BANNERS
   1.    Temporary signs, i.e. political, real estate, address identification,
portable, etc., do not require a permit, but must otherwise adhere to the
ordinance. In the CBD District, these signs must not occupy the five (5) foot
sidewalk clear area space. In all other districts, the signs shall not be
placed in a public right-of-way.
   2.   In all districts, the Zoning Administrator may allow a business, as
part of a startup phase, a grand opening, an anniversary celebration, etc. to
use a temporary sign for up to a thirty (30) day period. All temporary signs
under this provision shall comply with all requirements pertaining to height
and area for the zoning district in which they are located.
   3.   Permission to use portable non-illuminated changeable letter signs for
civic or charitable activities may be authorized by the zoning administrator
without fee. The use is limited to four (4) times per year and shall not exceed
thirty (30) days for any one use. The sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet.
   4.   Permission to use a portable non-illuminated changeable letter sign for
business or other related activities may be authorized by the zoning
administrator without fee. The use is limited to two (2) times per year and
shall not exceed sixteen (16) days for any one use. The sign shall not exceed
thirty-two (32) square feet.
   5.   Permission to display a banner or sign for a civic or charitable
activity may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator without fee. The sign/
banner may be placed up to ten (10) days prior to the event and must be removed
within forty-eight (48)
   6.   hours of the completion of the event.
   7.   Within the CBD Districts, banners are permitted for up to a thirty (30)
day period no more than one (1) time per year. Only those businesses with
direct pedestrian access from the public right-of-way shall be permitted to
have banners. These banners shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area.
The banners must be affixed to the building and shall be designed and attached
to avoid interference with or distraction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Banners shall not exceed thirty (30%) per cent of the square foot of the wall
they are attached to, less all openings. Feather flag signs shall not be
permitted as banners within the CBD Districts.
   8.   Within the C-MU, G-MU and GC Districts, banners are permitted for up to
a thirty (30) day period no more than one (1) time per year. Only those
businesses with direct pedestrian access from the public right-of-way shall be
permitted to have banners, and no more than one (1) banner is allowed per
premises. Banners affixed to the ground, including feather flag signs, shall
not exceed twenty (20) square feet of display area or ten (10) feet in height
and shall be so located to avoid interference with or distraction to pedestrian
or vehicular traffic. Banners affixed to a building shall not exceed twenty
(20) square feet in area.
   9.   All banners which are not properly maintained shall be removed at the
order of the Zoning Administrator.
Sec. 8.9 PERMITTED BILLBOARDS
Billboards shall be permitted only in the I-MU District, subject to the
Standards contained herein, and the Advertising Act of 1972, as amended.
8.9.1. Spacing.
   1.   Not more than three (3) billboards may be located per linear mile of
street or the highway regardless of the fact that such billboards may be
located on different sides of the street or highway. The linear measurement
shall not be limited to the boundaries of the Village of Lexington where the
particular street or highway extends beyond such boundaries.
Double-faced billboard structures having only one (1) face visible to traffic
proceeding from any given direction on a street or highway shall be considered
as one (1) billboard. Additionally, billboard structures having tandem faces
[i.e., two (2) parallel faces facing the same direction and side by side to one
(1) another] or stacked billboard faces (i.e., two (2) billboard faces facing
the same direction with one (1) face being directly above the other) shall be
considered as one (1) billboard. Otherwise, billboard structures having more
than one (1) billboard face shall be considered as two (2) billboards and shall
be prohibited in accordance with the minimum spacing requirement set forth in
Subsection 2 below.
   2.   No billboard shall be located within 1,000 feet of another billboard
abutting either side of the same street or highway.
   3.   No billboard shall be located within two hundred (200) feet of a
residential zone and/ or existing residence. If the billboard is illuminated,
this requirement distance shall instead be three hundred (300) feet.
   4.   No billboard shall be located closer than seventy-five (75) feet from a
property line adjoining a public right-of-way or ten (10) feet from any
interior boundary line of the premises on which the billboard is located.
8.9.2 Height.
The height of a billboard shall not exceed thirty (30) feet above the level of
the street or road upon which the billboard faces or to which the message upon
the billboard is directed. In the event that the billboard is situated upon two
(2) streets or roads having different levels, the height of the billboard shall
be measured from the higher street or road.
8.9.3 Surface area.
The surface display area of any side of a billboard may not exceed three
hundred (300) square feet. In the case of billboard structures with tandem or
stacked faces, the combined surface display area of both faces may not exceed
three hundred (300) square feet.
8.9.4 Illumination.
A billboard may be illuminated, provided such illumination is concentrated on
the surface of the sign and is located so as to avoid glare or reflection onto
any portion of an adjacent street or highway, the path of on-coming vehicles or
any adjacent premises. In no event shall any billboard have flashing or
intermittent lights, not shall the lights be permitted to rotate or oscillate.
8.9.5 Construction and Maintenance.
   1.   No billboard shall be on top of, cantilevered or otherwise suspended
above the roof of any building.
   2.   A billboard must be constructed in such a fashion that it will
withstand all wind and vibration forces that can normally be expected to occur
in the vicinity. A billboard must be maintained so as to assure proper
alignment of structure, continued structural soundness and continued
readability.
Sec. 8.10 MISCELLANEOUS PERMITTED SIGNS
8.10.1 Directory Signs.
For offices, parks, industrial parks and multi-tenant buildings in the CBD, C-
MU, G-MU and GG districts, directory signs which identify multiple occupants or
uses within a building on a lot shall be permitted in addition to other
permitted signs under these regulations.
   1.   No more than one (1) directory sign per lot is permitted, except where
a lot has frontage on no less than two (2) sides.
   2.   No directory sign shall exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in area or
six (6) feet in height from the finished grade.
   3.   No directory sign shall be located closer than ten (10) feet to any
property line in all districts except for CBD and shall not be a projecting
sign.
8.10.2 Menu Board Signs.
One menu board sign for a restaurant shall be permitted in addition to other
signs permitted under these regulations provided such sign does not exceed
sixteen (16) square feet in area. The sign shall be a wall sign or mounted on
an existing free-standing sign.
8.10.3 Changeable Copy Signs.
Within the C-MU and GC Districts, changeable copy signs, including electronic
changeable copy signs shall be permitted when incorporated into a permitted
freestanding or ground sign, provided that the area devoted to changeable copy
does not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the freestanding or ground sign area.
They are prohibited in all other districts.
   1.   Electronic changeable copy signs shall be further subject to the
following:
      a.   Sign displays shall contain static messages only, changed through
dissolve or fade transitions or the use of other suitable transitions and frame
effects that do not otherwise have the appearance of moving text and images
caused by flashing, scrolling, or varying light intensity levels. Full
animation or video broadcasting is expressly prohibited, as well as the use of
flashing, traveling, scrolling, rolling, splicing, zooming, exploding,
pulsating, blinking and other such characters. The top of a changeable sign
shall not exceed 15 feet in height above average ground level.
      b.   Each message must be displayed for a minimum of thirty (30) seconds,
with no more than one (1) second of message change interval or "off-time"
between messages.
      c.   The level of illumination produced by an electronic changeable copy
sign shall not exceed 0.3 footcandles over ambient (i.e., naturally illuminated
environment) lighting conditions. Measurement of sign brightness shall be in
accordance with the then-current methodology, sign area, and measurement
distances recommended by the International Sign Association.
      d.   The sign shall be equipped with, and shall use, photocell
technology, a programmable dimmer, or a similar mechanism to automatically
adjust brightness and contrast based on ambient light conditions. The sign
shall also incorporate security technology or devices to prevent unintended
changes to sign messages or images by other than the sign operator.
      e.   Any sign permit application shall include a certification from
either the owner, operator and/or manufacturer of the sign stating that the
sign shall at all times be operated in accordance with the operational and
performance requirements of this section. Any electronic changeable copy sign
found to be in violation of the operational and performance requirements shall
be turned off until such time as the Zoning Administrator determines the sign
is in full compliance with such requirements.
      f.   All electronic changeable copy signs shall be designed to achieve a
default status during periods of sign malfunction that will turn off the sign
entirely.
      g.   Electronic changeable copy signs shall be installed in a manner that
does not unreasonably interfere with the use and enjoyment of neighboring
residentially zoned property. No electronic changeable copy sign shall be
located closer than 100 feet to any dwelling in residential zoned property (R-
1, R-2, R-3, MHP) or used for residential purposes. However, the planning
commission may increase this setback distance by up to an additional 100 feet
to minimize any potential nuisance effects deemed caused by the unique
attributes of the sign installation in relationship to abutting residential
property. These characteristics include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the height and/or size of the proposed electronic changeable copy sign, the
adequacy of existing or proposed buffers, or the orientation of residential
sleeping quarters found in neighboring homes.
      h.   Messages shall only relate to the business, event, goods,
profession, or services being conducted, sold or offered at the same location
where the sign is erected or messages of a civic or emergency nature displayed
for the benefit of the general public.
   2.    Manual copy signs shall be further subject to the following:
      a.   Lettering on manual changeable copy signs directed to local or
collector streets shall not exceed three (3) inches in height.
      b.   Lettering used on a manual changeable copy signs directed to
secondary or major arterial streets shall not exceed six (6) inches in height.
      c.   Lettering on manual changeable copy signs directed to pedestrians
shall be at least two (2) inches in height, but not more than four (4) inches
in height.
8.10.4. Historical Markers.
If a structure/building within the Village has been designated a State
Historical Site or is listed in the National Register of Historic Places, then
a marker designating that fact, obtained from the appropriate state or federal
agency, shall be permitted in addition to any other sign or signs which may
lawfully be placed on the structure or the property on which the structure is
located.
Anyone wishing to place a historic marker on a structure or property shall
complete and file a sign permit application with the Zoning Administrator. No
fee shall be charged for a historic marker application. Placement of the
historic sign/marker will be subject to the state or federal specifications. In
the case of no specifications detailed by the state or federal agency, the
zoning administrator will determine the placement.
8.10.5. Window Signs.
   1.    Any sign, including the posting of hours of operation, display of
credit cards, illuminated open sign, and/or street or building address, which
is painted or mounted onto a windowpane, or which is hung directly inside the
window with the purpose or effect of identifying any premises from the sidewalk
or street does not require a permit or fee.
   2.    Window signs do not count in the calculation of total building signage
permitted. However, window signs shall not exceed more than 30% of the total
window area on the floor level and no more than 50% coverage per window.
Sec. 8.11 PROHIBITED SIGNS
All signs that are not expressly permitted in this ordinance are prohibited,
including the following prohibited signs: flashing signs; interactive signs
(except temporary signs used by law enforcement); mechanical movement signs;
and, signs painted, posted, or mounted on trees, rocks, or other natural
features, fences, fence posts, light poles, benches, flower boxes, perimeter or
privacy walls, and telephone or utility poles.
Sec. 8.12 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE
The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed under this section may
substitute noncommercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or noncommercial
copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any additional approval or
permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent
favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech or favoring of any
particular noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message. This
provision prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary. This
provision does not create a right to increase the total amount of signage on a
lot or allow the substitution of an off-site commercial message in place of an
on-site commercial message.
***** ARTICLE 9: OFF-STREET PARKING & LOADING *****
Sec. 9.1 INTENT & PURPOSE
The purpose of this section is to ensure the provision of off-street parking
facilities that are sufficient in number, adequately sized and properly
designed to meet the range of parking needs and demands that are associated
with land uses now in place in the Village or with land uses allowed by this
Ordinance.
Sec. 9.2 GENERAL PROVISIONS
9.2.1. Where Required.
In all zoning districts, off-street parking facilities for the storage and
parking of self-propelled motor vehicles for the use of occupants, employees,
and patrons of the buildings hereafter erected, altered, or extended after the
effective date of this Ordinance, shall be provided as herein prescribed. Such
space shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon so long as said main
building or structure remains, unless an equivalent number of such spaces are
provided elsewhere in conformance with this Ordinance.
9.2.2. Existing Off-Street Parking at Effective Date of Ordinance.
Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this Ordinance which
serves an existing building or use, shall not be reduced in size to less than
that required under the terms of this Ordinance.
9.2.3. Required Greenbelt and Setbacks.
Off-street parking, including maneuvering lanes, shall not be located within
the required front greenbelt in accordance with Section
6.2.6 Off-street parking shall be permitted within the required side or rear
yard setbacks, provided a minimum five (5) foot setback is maintained between
off-street parking and the side and rear lot lines of all adjoining properties.
In C-MU, G-MU and CBD districts, off-street parking shall further comply with
the siting standards of Section
4.8.
9.2.4. Parking Duration.
Except when land is used as storage space in connection with the business of a
repair or service garage, a twenty-four (24) hour time limit for parking in
non-residential off-street parking areas shall prevail, it being the purpose
and intention of the foregoing that the requirement of maintaining vehicle
storage or parking space is to provide for the public safety in keeping parked
cars off the streets, but such requirement is not designed to or intended to
provide, and it shall be unlawful to permit, the storage or prolonged parking
on any such parking area in any such district wrecked or junked cars, or for
creating a junk yard or a nuisance in such areas.
9.2.5. Units and Methods of Measurement.
For the purpose of determining off-street parking requirements, the following
units of measurement shall apply:
   1.   Floor Area. Where floor area is the unit for determining the required
number of off-street parking spaces, said unit shall mean the gross floor area,
except that floor areas within the principal building used for parking,
incidental service and storage, housing of mechanical equipment, heating
systems and similar uses need not be included.
   2.   Employees. For requirements stated in terms of employees, the
calculation shall be based upon the maximum number of employees likely to be on
the premises during the largest shift.
   3.   Places of Assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other
places of assembly in which those in attendance occupy benches, pews, or other
similar seating facilities, each twenty-four (24) inches of such shall be
counted as one (1) seat. In cases where a place of assembly has both fixed
seats and open assembly area, requirements shall be computed separately for
each type and added together.
   4.   Fractional Requirements. When units or measurements determining number
of required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction shall require one (1) parking space.
9.2.6. Location of Parking.
   1.   One- and Two-Family Dwellings. The off-street parking facilities
required for one-and two-family dwellings shall be located on the same lot or
plot of ground as the building they are intended to serve but shall not be
considered a parking lot under the provisions of this Article. Existing non-
conforming driveways within the five (5) foot setback maybe paved, repaved,
asphalt, or re-asphalted.
   2.   Multiple-Family Residential. The off-street parking facilities for
multiple-family dwellings shall be located on the same lot or plot of ground as
the dwellings they are intended to serve and shall consist of a parking lot as
set forth in this Article. In no event shall any parking space be located
nearer than ten (10) feet to any main building.
   3.   Other Land Uses. The off-street parking facilities required for all
other uses shall be located on the lot or within three hundred (300) feet of
the permitted uses requiring such off-street parking, such distance to be
measured along lines of public access to the property between the nearest point
of the parking facility to the building to be served.
   4.   Restriction on Parking on Private Property. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, or corporation to park any motor vehicle on any private
property without the authorization of the owner or agent of such property.
Sec. 9.3 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
9.3.1. The amount of required off-street parking spaces for new uses or
buildings, and additions to existing buildings shall be determined in
accordance with the Schedule set forth in Section
9.4. Parking requirements listed in Section
9.4 shall not include off- street stacking spaces for drive-through facilities
set forth in Section
9.7.
9.3.2. Similar Uses and Requirements.
When a use is not specifically mentioned, the requirements of off-street
parking for a similar use shall apply.
9.3.3. Collective Provisions.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent collective provisions of
off-street parking facilities for two (2) or more buildings or uses, provided:
   1.   Such facilities collectively shall not be less than the sum of the
requirements for the various individual uses computed separately in accordance
with Section 9.4 of this Article. However, the planning commission may reduce
the total number of spaces by up to twenty-five (25) percent upon a
determination that the peak space requirements for the individual uses occur at
distinctly different times.
   2.   Each use served by collective off-street parking shall have direct
access to the parking without crossing any public rights-of-way.
   3.   Written easements which provide for continued use and maintenance of
the parking shall be submitted to the City for approval.
9.3.4. Parking Exemption.
As of the effective date of this Ordinance, buildings and uses located within
the CBD - Central Business District shall be exempt from providing off-street
parking. However, in no case should a building or use be expanded to remove
off-street parking established before the effective date of this Ordinance.
9.3.5. Flexibility in Application.
The Village recognizes that, due to the specific requirements of any given
development, inflexible application of the parking standards set forth in
Section
9.4 may result in development with inadequate parking or parking far in excess
of that which is needed. The former situation may lead to traffic congestion or
unauthorized parking on adjacent streets or neighboring sites. The latter
situation may result in excessive paving and storm water runoff and a waste of
space which could be left as open space.
The Planning Commission may permit deviations from the requirements of Section
9.4 and may require more or allow less parking whenever it finds that such
deviations are more likely to provide a sufficient number of parking spaces to
accommodate the specific characteristics of the use in question.
The Planning Commission may attach conditions to the approval of a deviation
from the requirement of Section
9.4 that bind such approval to the specific use in question. Where a deviation
results in a reduction of parking, the Planning Commission may further impose
conditions which ensure that adequate reserve area is set aside for future
parking, as needed.
The Planning Commission may allow deviations from the hard durable surface lot
requirement for seasonal or auxiliary lots. The recommended surface shall be
suitable for the given parking area in question.
The Planning Commission may allow deviations from the hard durable surface lot
requirement to permit durable alternative materials, such as pervious concrete
or permeable pavers, for the purpose of improved stormwater filtration.
Sec. 9.4 TABLE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
The amount of required off-street parking space for new uses or buildings, and
additions to existing buildings shall be determined in accordance with the
following table:
9.4.1. Required Number of Parking Spaces.
Use Per Each Unit of Measure as Follows
Use                                     Per Each Unit of Measure as Follows
Residential Uses
Single- or Two-Family Dwelling          2 per each dwelling unit
Multiple-Family Dwelling                2 per each dwelling, plus
                                        1 per each ten (10) dwelling units
                                        1 per each dwelling unit, plus
Senior Citizen Housing and Senior       1 per each ten (10) dwelling units,
Assisted Living                         plus
                                        1 per each employee
Institutional Uses
                                        1 per each eight (8) seats based on
Churches                                maximum seating capacity in the main
                                        place of assembly therein
                                        1 per each three (3) individual members
Private Clubs & Lodges                  allowed within the maximum occupancy
                                        load as established by fire and/or
                                        building codes
                                        1 per each four (4) beds, plus
Hospitals                               1 per staff doctor, plus
                                        1 per each employee at peak shift
Convalescent Homes, Homes for the Aged, 1 per each five (5) beds, plus
Children's Homes                        1 per each staff doctor, plus
                                        1 per each employee at peak shift
                                        1 per each teacher, plus
High Schools, Trade Schools, Colleges & 1 per each twenty-five (10) students,
Universities                            plus
                                        1 per each employee
                                        1 per each teacher, plus
Elementary & Middle Schools             1 per each twenty-five (25) students,
                                        plus
                                        1 per each employee
Child Care Center, or Nursery Schools   1 per each five (5) students, plus
                                        1 per each employee
Day Care Homes                          1 per each employee and/or caregiver
Stadiums, Sports Arenas, and            1 per each four (4) seats based on
Auditoriums                             maximum seating capacity
Libraries & Museums                     1 per each 500 sq. ft. of floor area
General Commercial Uses
Retail Stores, except as otherwise      1 per each 300 sq. ft. of floor area
specified                               herein
Supermarkets, drugstores, and other     1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area retail
self- serve                             establishments
Convenience Stores and Video Stores     1 per 100 sq. ft. of floor area
                                        1 per 150 sq. ft. of floor area for the
Planned Shopping Center                 first 15,000 sq. ft., plus
                                        1 per 300 sq. ft. of floor area in
                                        excess of 15,000 sq. ft.
                                        1 per 150 sq. ft. of floor area for the
Planned Shopping Center                 first 15,000 sq. ft., plus
                                        1 per 300 sq. ft. of floor area in
                                        excess of 15,000 sq. ft.
Furniture, Appliances, Hardware,        1 per each 600 sq. ft. of floor area,
Household Equipment Sales               plus
                                        1 per each employee
                                        1 per each guest bedroom, plus
                                        1 per each ten bedrooms, plus
Motels and Hotels                       1 per employee, plus amount required
                                        for accessory uses, such as a
                                        restaurant or cocktail lounge
                                        1 per each 125 sq. ft. of floor area,
Fast Food Restaurants                   plus
                                        1 per each employee during peak shift
                                        1 per each four (4) seats and for the
                                        first 48 seats and per each eight seats
Sit-Down Restaurants                    for the next 49 seats to 100 seats, and
                                        per each 12 seats over 100, plus
                                        1 per each employee during peak shift
                                        1 per each four (4) persons allowed
                                        within the maximum occupancy load as
Taverns and Cocktail Lounges            established by fire and/or building
                                        codes, plus
                                        1 per each employee during peak shift
Nurseries, Garden Centers, Building     1 per each 800 sq. ft. of lot area used
Material Sales                          for said business provided for herein
                                        1 per each four (4) seats based on the
Movie Theaters                          maximum seating capacity, plus
                                        1 per each employee
Wholesale Stores, Machinery Sales, and  1 per each 800 sq. ft. of floor area,
other similar uses                      plus
                                        1 per each employee
Automotive Uses
                                        1 per each 200 sq. ft. of showroom
Auto Sales                              floor area, plus
                                        1 per each employee, plus
                                        1 per each service stall
                                        2 per each service stall, plus
Automotive Repair Facilities            1 per each employee, plus
                                        1 per each service vehicle
Gasoline Stations without Convenience   1 per each pump unit, plus
Store                                   2 per each service stall, plus
                                        1 per each employee
                                        1 per each pump unit, plus 2 per each
                                        service stall, plus
Gasoline Stations with Convenience      1 per each employee, plus
Store                                   1 per each 100 sq. ft. of floor area
                                        devoted to retail sales and customer
                                        service
                                        1 per each wash stall, plus
Car Washes (self-serve)                 1 per each vacuum station, plus
                                        1 per each employee
                                        1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area of
Car Washed (automatic)                  customer waiting and service areas, 1
                                        per each vacuum station, plus 1 per
                                        each employee
Collision or Bump Shops, and other      2 per each stall or service area, plus
Similar Uses                            1 per each employee
Office and Service Uses
Medical & Dental Office                 1 per each 150 sq. ft. of floor area
Business & Professional Offices         1 per each 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Banks                                   1 per each 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Barber & Beauty Shops                   3 per each chair
Laundromats or Coin-Operated Dry        1 per each 2 washing or dry cleaning
Cleaners                                machines
Recreational Uses
                                        4 per bowling lane, plus
Bowling Alleys                          1 per employee, plus amount required
                                        for accessory uses such as a restaurant
                                        or cocktail lounge
Private Tennis, Swim or Golf Clubs, or  1 per each two (2) memberships, plus
other Similar Uses                      amount required for accessory uses such
                                        as a restaurant or cocktail lounge
                                        4 per each hole, plus
Gold Course, open to the general public 1 per each employee, plus amount
                                        required for accessory uses such as a
                                        restaurant or cocktail lounge
Industrial Uses
Industrial or Manufacturing             1 per each employee, at peak shift, or
Establishments                          1 per each 800 sq. ft. of floor area
                                        (whichever is greater)
                                        1 per each employee, or 1 per each
Warehouses and Storage Buildings        2,000 sq. ft. of floor area (whichever
                                        is greater)
Contractors Office                      1 per each employee
 
Sec. 9.5 OFF-STREET PARKING LOT DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION
The construction of any parking lot shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the provisions of this Ordinance and such construction shall be
completed and approved by the Zoning Administrator before use of the property
as a parking lot and before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued. Unless
incorporated in a site plan prepared and approved in accordance with Section
3.4, plans for the development of any parking lot must be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator, prepared at a scale of not less than fifty (50) feet
equals one (1) inch and indicating existing and proposed grades, drainage, pipe
sizes, parking of all dimensions, type of curbing, drive and aisle dimensions,
lighting, adjacent main buildings, sidewalks, landscaping, surfacing and base
materials to be used and the layout of the proposed parking lot.
9.5.1. All such parking lots, driveways, or loading areas required for uses
other than single-or two-family residential shall be a hard durable, smooth,
and dustless surface and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of
surface water which might accumulate within or upon such area and shall be
completely constructed prior to a Certificate of Occupancy being issued.
Drainage for parking lots shall conform to the standards set forth in Section
6.11. Hard durable surface is defined as cement, bituminous materials
(asphalt), or other comparable compacted materials for those adjacent to or
ingressing from a state highway or located in the DDA district.
9.5.2. All illumination for all such parking lots shall meet the standards set
forth in Section
6.8.
9.5.3. Parking lot landscaping and buffering requirements shall meet the
standards set forth in Section
6.2.5.
9.5.4. Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot, by means of limited and
clearly defined drives, shall be provided for all vehicles.
9.5.5. Where necessary to prevent encroaching upon pedestrian walkway or
damaging required landscaping, wheel stops shall be provided. No portion of a
parking space and/or maneuvering aisle shall obstruct or encroach upon a public
sidewalk.
9.5.6. All parking lots must clearly mark parking spaces either by painted
lines, wheel stops, or the equivalent.
9.5.7. Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accordance with the following minimum regulations.
 
           Maneuvering Lane Width Parking Space
Pattern    One-Way Two-Way        Width Length
0 Parallel 12 ft   18 ft          9 ft  20 ft
30-53      12 ft   18 ft          9 ft  20 ft
54-74      15 ft   20 ft          9 ft  20 ft
75-90      18 ft   20 ft          9 ft  20 ft
 
Sec. 9.6 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
On the same premises with every building or part thereof, erected and occupied
for any uses involving the receipt or distribution of trucks and/or delivery
vehicles, material or merchandise, adequate space for loading and unloading
shall be provided in accordance with the following:
9.6.1. Such loading and unloading space, unless completely and adequately
provided for within a building, shall be an area ten (10) feet by fifty (50)
feet, with fourteen (14) foot height clearance and shall be provided according
to the following schedule.
 
Gross Floor Area of Building (sq. ft.) Required Loading & Unloading Spaces
0-5,000                                None
5,000 - I0,000                         One (I) space with a minimum length of
                                       20 ft
I0,000 - 20,000                        One (I) space
                                       One (I) space plus one (I) space for
20,000 - I00,000                       each 20,000 sq. ft. in excess of 20,000
                                       sq. ft.
                                       Five (5) spaces plus one (I) space for
I00,000 - 500,000                      each 40,000 sq. ft. in excess of I
                                       00,000 sq. ft.
                                       Fifteen ( 15) spaces plus one (I) space
Over 500,000                           for each 80,000 sq. ft. in excess of
                                       500,000 sq. ft.
 
9.6.2. Required Greenbelt, Setbacks, and Screening.
   1.   Off-street loading areas, including maneuvering lanes, shall not be
located within the front greenbelt required in accordance with Section
6.2. Off-street loading shall be permitted within the required side or rear
yard setbacks, provided a minimum ten (10) foot setback is maintained between
off-street loading and the abutting side and rear lot lines.
   2.   Off-street loading which abuts residentially zoned or used property
shall be screened in accordance with Section
6.2.
9.6.3. Double Count.
Off-street loading space areas shall not be construed as, or counted toward,
the supplying of area required as off-street parking space area.
Sec. 9.7 OFF-STREET STACKING SPACE FOR DRIVE- THROUGH FACILITIES
All businesses which provide drive-through facilities for serving customers
within their automobile shall provide adequate off-street stacking space and
lanes which meets the following requirements. Banks and carwashes are the only
drive-through businesses permitted in the village of Lexington.
9.7.1. Each stacking space shall be computed on the basis of ten (10) feet in
width and twenty (20) feet in length. Each stacking lane shall be a minimum of
twelve (12) feet in width.
9.7.2. Clear identification and delineation between the drive-through facility
and parking lot shall be provided. Drive-through facilities shall be designed
in a manner which promotes pedestrian and vehicular safety.
9.7.3. For all drive-through facilities which have a single stacking lane, an
escape lane shall be provided which allows other vehicles to pass those waiting
to be serviced.
9.7.4. The number of stacking spaces per service lane shall be provided for the
following uses:
Use Stacking Spaces Per Service Lane
Use   Stacking Spaces Per Service Lane
Banks 4
Car Washes (self-service)
Entry 3
Exit  I
Car Washes (automatic)
Entry 6
Exit  2
 
When a use is not specifically mentioned, the requirements for off-street
stacking space for the similar use shall apply.
Sec. 9.8 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
In all Residential Districts, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored
subject to the following conditions:
9.8.1. Storage or parking shall not be permitted on vacant lots or parcels,
except as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
9.8.2. Unless within a completely enclosed building, a recreational vehicle
shall be parked or stored in one of the following manners.
   1.    Within the or rear yard, but no closer than five (5) feet from any
side or rear lot line; or, in those instances where the rear yard is not
accessible or has insufficient clearance for the passage of a recreational
vehicle, the Zoning Administrator may allow (in writing) the parking or storage
of a recreational vehicle to be parked in the side yard. In no instance shall
such a recreational vehicle be parked or stored in such a manner which
obstructs a neighbor’s clean line of vision from their porch/deck, doors, or
windows.
   2.   For property adjacent to Lake Huron, recreational vehicles must be
stored inside a garage or accessory structure.
9.8.3. No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes to accommodate visitors which exceeds a maximum period of
forty-eight (48) hours without written authorization from the zoning
administrator. If approved for use, the vehicle must be fully self-contained.
9.8.4. No recreational vehicle shall be stored on a public street or right-of-
way or private road easement.
9.8.5. All recreational vehicles shall be locked or secured at all times so as
to prevent access or injury to person or persons.
9.8.6. Except for periods of less than forty-eight (48) hours, only those
recreational vehicles which are owned by the property owner or resident of the
property, and which are properly plated and registered may be parked or stored.
9.8.7. At such time as the Zoning Administrator approves storage of a
recreational vehicle other than in a rear yard, that written approval is
limited to six (6) months. Additional time may be granted but must be approved
in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
***** ARTICLE 10: NON-CONFORMING USES, STUCTURES & LOTS *****
Sec. 10.1 INTENT
Certain existing lots, structures and uses of lots and structures were lawful
before this Ordinance was adopted but have become non-conformities under the
terms of this Ordinance and its amendments. It is the intent of this Ordinance
to permit such non- conformities to remain until they are discontinued or
removed, but not to encourage their survival or, where discontinuance or
removal is not feasible, to gradually upgrade such non- conformities to
conforming status. Non-conformities shall not be enlarged, expanded, or
extended, except as provided herein, and shall not be used as grounds for
adding other structures and uses of lots and structures which are prohibited.
Non-conformities are declared by this Ordinance to be incompatible with the
structures and uses permitted in the various Districts.
Sec. 10.2 NON-CONFORMING LOTS
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this Ordinance, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district; provided
that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or
both, of the lots shall conform to the regulations for the district in which
such lot is located.
If two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this Ordinance, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements for lot width and area as established by this Ordinance, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this
Ordinance, and no portion of said parcel or lot shall be used or sold which
does not meet lot width and area requirements established by this Ordinance,
nor shall any division of the parcel or lot be made which leaves remaining any
parcel or lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this
Ordinance.
Sec. 10.3 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance, lawful
use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of the
Ordinance as enacted or amended, such use may be continued, so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
10.3.1. No such non-conforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Ordinance.
10.3.2. No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance.
10.3.3. If such non-conforming use of land ceases operation for a period of
more than six (6) months this shall constitute abandonment. Any subsequent use
of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by the Ordinance for
the district in which such land is located.
Sec. 10.4 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this Ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this Ordinance by
reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
10.4.1. No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which furthers
its non-conformity.
10.4.2. Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than fifty (50%) percent of replacement value at the time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of the
Ordinance.
10.4.3. Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
Sec. 10.5 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES & LAND
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and land in combination, exists
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance that would not
be allowed in the district under the terms of this Ordinance, the lawful use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject of the
following provisions:
10.5.1. No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Ordinance
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
10.5.2. Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
building which was manifestly arranged or designed for such use, and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
10.5.3. Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations pertaining to the uses permitted in the district in which
such structure is located, and the non-conforming use may not thereafter by
resumed. Section
10.4 shall apply to any non- conformity relating to the structure(s).
10.5.4. If such non-conforming use of land and structures ceases operation for
a period of more than six (6) months this shall constitute abandonment. Any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this
Ordinance pertaining to the uses permitted in the district in which such land
is located. Structures occupied by seasonal uses shall be excepted from this
provision only so long as seasonal uses shall continue.
10.5.5. Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal, or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-
conforming status of the land.
10.5.6. If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming use of
structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another non-conforming
use of the same or a more restricted classification provided that the Board of
Appeals, either by general rule or by making findings in the specific case,
shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to
the district than the existing non-conforming use. In permitting such change,
the Board of Appeals may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in
accord with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance. Where a non- conforming
use of a structure, land, or structure and land in combination is hereafter
changed to a more restrictive classification, it shall not thereafter be
changed to a less restricted classification.
Sec. 10.6 REPAIRS & MAINTENANCE
On any building devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use, work may
be done in any period of twelve (12) consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or
on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing to
an extent not exceeding fifty (50%) percent of the replacement value of the
building, provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed at the
time of passage or amendment of this Ordinance shall not be increased.
A nonconforming structure, nonconforming portion of a structure, or a structure
containing a nonconforming use which is physically unsafe or unlawful due to
lack of repairs and maintenance, as determined by the Building Official may be
restored to a safe condition.
Where enlargement or structural alternation is necessary to allow compliance
with health and safety laws or ordinances, the cost of such work shall not
exceed twenty-five (25%) percent of the structure’s fair market value, as
determined by the Assessor at the time such work is done.
Sec. 10.7 USES ALLOWED AS SPECIAL LAND USES, NOT NON-CONFORMING USES
Any use for which special land use is permitted as provided in this Ordinance
shall not be deemed a non-conforming use but shall without further action be
deemed a conforming use in such district.
Sec. 10.8 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP
There may be a change of tenancy, ownership, or management of any existing non-
conforming uses of land, structures, and premises provided there is no change
in the nature or character of such non-conforming uses except in conformity
with the provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 10.9 NON-CONFORMING USES OF SIGNS
Any sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure or object which existed
and was maintained at the time this zoning ordinance was adopted and which are
subject to the regulations of this zoning ordinance because of any changes or
additions made by this new ordinance, shall be deemed a non-conforming sign.
Non-conforming signs may remain provided they are not expanded, enlarged, or
reduced other than routine maintenance and upkeep of the sign itself. Any non-
conforming sign shall be removed or made to conform to the provision of this
ordinance within thirty (30) days of the happening of any of the following
events:
   1.   The change of the activity advertised thereon.
   2.   Change in the use of the property on which the sign is located.
   3.   Any alterations or changes to the sign.
***** ARTICLE 11: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS *****
Sec. 11.1 AUTHORITY
There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA), the membership,
powers, duties of which are prescribed in Public Act 110 of 2006 (MCL 125.3601
et seq.), as amended. The Zoning Board of Appeals, in addition to the general
powers and duties conferred upon it by said Act, in specific cases and subject
to appropriate conditions and safeguards, shall interpret and determine the
application of the regulations established under this Ordinance in harmony with
their purpose and intent as hereinafter set forth.
Sec. 11.2 MEMBERSHIP
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the
Village President and approved by the Village Council.
   1.   The members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be selected from the
electors of the village. The members selected shall be representative of the
population distribution and the various interests present in the village. An
employee or contractor of the Village Council may not serve as a member of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
   2.   Terms shall be for three (3) years, and the period stated in the
resolution appointing them. When members are first appointed, the appointments
may be for less than three (3) years to provide for staggered terms. A
successor shall be appointed not more than one (1) month after the term of the
preceding member has expired. Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled for
the remainder of the term.
   3.   The Village Council may appoint not more than two (2) alternate members
for the same term as regular members to the board. The alternate member(s) has
the same voting rights as a regular member of the board when serving. The
alternate member appointed to a case shall serve in the case until a final
decision is made. An alternate member may be called to serve as a regular
member of the board if;
   a.    the regular member is absent from or will be unable to attend one (1)
or more meetings, or
   b.   a regular member needs to abstain for reasons of conflict of interest.
Sec. 11.3 REMOVAL OF MEMBER(S) CONFLICT OF INTEREST
A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be removed by the legislative body
for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. A member shall disqualify himself or herself from a
vote in which the member has a conflict of interest. Failure of a member to
disqualify himself or herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of
interest constitutes malfeasance in office. Conflict of Interest as defined: a)
if the member is the applicant b) if the member is a close relative of the
applicant c) a business associate of the applicant or the lender or a renter d)
if the member could receive financial gain or benefit from the decision e) if
the member has participated in a decision that preceded this question.
Sec. 11.4 MEETINGS
11.4.1. All decisions of the Board shall be made at a meeting open to the
public. All deliberations of the Board constituting a quorum of its member
shall take place at a meeting open to the public except as provided in
compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Act 267 of 1976 as amended.
11.4.2. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for
purposes of transacting the business of the Board and the Open Meetings Act,
Act 267 of 1976, as amended. Each member of the Board shall have one (1) vote.
11.4.3. Regular meetings of the Board shall be called as needed in response to
receipt of a Notice of Appeal, so long as the meeting is scheduled within
twenty (20) days of the notice of Appeal. The meeting can be called by the
Zoning Administrator, the Chair of the Appeals Board, or, in his or her
absence, the Vice-Chair. Public notice of the date, time, and place of a public
meeting of the Board shall be given in the manner required by Act 267 of 1976,
as amended.
11.4.4. The business of the Board of Appeals shall be conducted in accordance
with its adopted bylaws.
11.4.5. The Chair, or in his or her absence, Vice-Chair may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses.
Sec. 11.5 POWERS & DUTIES
11.5.1. General.
The Zoning Board of Appeals has the power to act on matters as provided in this
Ordinance and Public Act 110 of 2006 (MCL 125.3601 et seq.), as amended. The
specific powers of the ZBA are enumerated in the following sections of this
Article.
11.5.2. Voting.
The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse an order, requirements, decision, or determination of an
administrative official or body, or to decide in favor of the applicant a
matter upon which the board is required to pass under an ordinance, or to
effect a variation in an ordinance except that a concurring vote of 2/3 of the
members of the board shall be necessary to grant a variance from uses of land
permitted in an ordinance.
A member shall be disqualified from a vote in which there is a conflict of
interest. Failure of a member to disclose a conflict of interest and be
disqualified from a vote shall constitute misconduct in office.
11.5.3. Administrative Review.
The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant
that there is error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, or refusal
made by the Zoning Administrator or other duly authorized enforcing agent, in
enforcing any provision of this Ordinance.
11.5.4. Interpretation.
   1.   The Board shall hear and decide requests for interpretation of this
Ordinance or the Zoning Map taking into consideration the intent and purpose of
the Ordinance and the General Development Plan.
   2.   A record shall be kept by the ZBA of all decisions for interpretation
of this Ordinance or Zoning Map and land uses which are approved under the
terms of this section. The ZBA may request that the Planning Commission
consider initiation of an amendment to clarify a point that has given rise to
uncertainty.
11.5.5. Variances.
Upon an appeal, the Board is authorized to grant a variance from the strict
provisions of this ordinance, whereby extraordinary or exceptional conditions
of such property, the strict application of the regulations enacted would
result in peculiar or exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional
undue hardship upon the owner of such property provided such relief may be
granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this ordinance. In granting a
variance, the Board may attach thereto such conditions regarding the location,
character, and other features of the proposed uses as it may deem reasonable in
furtherance of the purpose of this ordinance. Further, in granting a variance,
the Board shall state the grounds upon which it justifies the granting of a
variance as outlined below. When granting any variance, the Board must ensure
that the spirit of the ordinance is observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done.
   1.   Use variance. The applicant must present evidence to show that if the
zoning ordinance is applied strictly, unnecessary hardship to the applicant
will result, and that all four of the following requirements are met:
      a.   That the property could not be reasonably used for the purposes
permitted in that zone;
      b.   That the appeal results from unique circumstances peculiar to the
property and not from general neighborhood conditions;
      c.   That the use requested by the variance would not alter the essential
character of the area; and
      d.   That the alleged hardship has not been created by any person
presently having an interest in the property.
   2.   Nonuse variances. The applicant must present evidence to show that if
the zoning ordinance is applied strictly, practical difficulties will result to
the applicant and:
      a.   That the ordinance restrictions unreasonably prevent the owner from
using the property for a permitted purpose;
      b.   That the variance would do substantial justice to the applicant as
well as to other property owners in the district, and a lesser relaxation than
that requested would not give substantial relief to the owner of the property
or be more consistent with justice to other property owners;
      c.   That the plight of the landowner is due to the unique circumstances
of the property; and
      d.   That the alleged hardship has not been created by any person
presently having an interest in the property.
Sec. 11.6 PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL
11.6.1. An applicant requesting any action by the Board shall commence such
request by filing a notice of appeal, on the form supplied by the Village,
accompanied by such appeal fee as determined by the Village Council, and all
plans, studies and any other information and data as applicable, all of which
shall be made a part of the record.
11.6.2. Every appeal from a determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
duly authorized enforcing agent shall be made by the applicant within thirty
(30) days of the date of the order issuance or refusal to issue permit,
requirement, or refusal.
11.6.3. Upon receipt of a completed application for an appeal, a public hearing
shall be held by the Zoning Board of Appeals with advance notice provided in
accordance with the requirements of Section 103 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended.
11.6.4. Any person may appear in person at the public hearing, or be
represented by an agent or attorney, and present any evidence in support of
their appeal. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to require the
attendance of witness, administer oaths, compel testimony, and otherwise cause
the production of books, papers, files, and other evidence pertaining to
matters properly coming before the Board of Appeals.
11.6.5. The Board shall not decide an appeal until after a public hearing.
11.6.6. The Board may reverse, affirm, vary, or modify, any order, requirement,
or determination, as to which it has the power to consider, and have all the
powers of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken and may issue or
direct the issuance of a permit.
11.6.7. The Board may impose conditions with any decision. Such conditions
imposed shall meet all of the following requirements:
   1.   Be designed to protect natural resources, public health, safety, and
welfare and the social and economic well-being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents, and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole.
   2.   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes
which are affected by the proposed use or activity.
   3.   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the Zoning Ordinance, be
related to the standards established in the Ordinance for the land use or
activity under consideration and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards. Violations of any of these conditions shall be deemed a violation of
this Ordinance, enforceable as such, and/or may be grounds for revocation or
reversal of such decision.
11.6.8. All decisions of the Board shall be in writing and so far, as it is
practicable, in the form of a general statement or resolution reciting the
conditions, facts, and findings of the Board. The applicant shall be advised of
the decision after the public hearing unless the Board moves for a continuation
of such hearing.
11.6.9. Any decision of the Board favorable to the applicant shall remain valid
only as long as the information or data relating thereto are found to be
correct, and the conditions upon which the decision was based are maintained.
11.6.10. The Board may reconsider an earlier decision, if, in the opinion of
the Board, circumstances justify taking such action.
11.6.11. No order of the Board of Appeals permitting the erection or alteration
of a building shall be valid for a period of longer than one (1) year, unless a
land use and building permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within
such period, and such erection or alteration is started and proceeds to
completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
No order of the Board of Appeals permitting a use of a building or premises
shall be valid for a period longer than one (1) year, unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that such order shall
continue in force and effect if a land use and building permit for said
erection or alteration is obtained within such period, and such erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with such
permit.
11.6.12. Any person or persons, or any board or department of the Village
having an interest affected by a decision of the Board shall have the right to
appeal to the circuit court on questions of law and fact. Such appeal must be
taken within twenty-one (21) days after the date of the Board’s decision. A
request for reconsideration under subsection (10) above shall not toll the time
for taking such appeal. In the event a request for reconsideration is granted,
the time period for appeal shall commence from 21 days from the date of the
decision of the meeting where the appeal was reconsidered. In any event, only
one request for reconsideration on each appeal shall be allowed.
Sec. 11.7 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
The various parts of this ordinance shall be deemed severable. Should any
section, paragraph, or provision hereof be held by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of this
Ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part held to be
unconstitutional or invalid.
Sec. 11.8 REPEAL
All Ordinances or portions, thereof, which are in conflict with this Ordinance
are hereby repealed.
Sec. 11.9 EFFECTIVE DATE
Public hearing having been held hereon, the provisions of this Ordinance shall
take effect upon the expiration of seven days after publication, pursuant to
the provision of Section 401 (6), Act 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as
amended.
APPENDIX A: SUMMARY TABLE USES BY ZONING DISTRICT
P = Principal Permitted Use
SLU= Special Land Use
This Use Matrix is presented for summary purposes only. Refer to the zoning
districts for specific language pertaining to principal permitted uses and
special land uses, as well as any applicable use requirements.
Category/Use AG R-1 R-2 R-3 MHP C-MU G-MU CBD GC I-MU Add'l Reg'ts
Category/Use            AG  R-1 R-2 R-3 MHP C-MU G-MU CBD GC  I-MU Add'l Reg'ts
RESIDENTIAL USES
Cluster housing            SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU            Sec.
                                                                   5.2
Home occupations           P   P   P      P    P              Sec.
                                                                   5.10
Mobile home park                    P                     Sec.
                                                                   5.7
Multiple-family               P   P      P    SLU             
dwellings
Multiple-family housing
and/or apartment                       P        P   P        
dwelling second floor
and above
Short term rentals         P            P    P    P   P       Sec.
                                                                   5.25
Single-family detached  P   P   P   P          P               
dwellings
Single-family dwelling
established and
existing at the time of                P        P   P        
adoption of this
Ordinance
Stacked dwellings             P   P      SLU  SLU             
Townhouse dwellings           P   P      SLU  SLU             
Two family dwellings       SLU P   P   SLU SLU  SLU             
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES
Adult foster care          P   P   P   P   P    P              Sec.
family homes                                                       5.9
Adult foster care small                                            Sec.
group homes serving 6      P   P   P   P   P    P              5.9
persons or less
Adult foster care small                                            Sec.
group homes serving        SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU            5.9
more than 6 persons
Adult foster care large    SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU            Sec.
group homes                                                        5.9
Adult foster care             SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU             
congregate facilities
Convalescent homes or         SLU SLU    SLU  SLU             
nursing homes
Family day care homes      P   P   P   P   P    P              Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Group day care homes       SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU            Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Housing for the
elderly/senior living         SLU SLU    SLU  SLU             
facilities
Senior assisted living
or independent living         SLU SLU    SLU  SLU             
facilities
AGRICULTURAL USES
Agribusiness            SLU                           SLU   
establishments
Agritourism             SLU                                
establishments
Farming operations      p                                  
Farm supply and feed    SLU             P           P   P     
stores
Nurseries, greenhouses  SLU             P              SLU  Sec.
and garden centers                                                 5.15
Open air farmers        P               P        P   P   P     
markets
Public and private
recreation and
conservation areas,     P                                  
including forest
preserves, game refuges
and reserves
Roadside stands         P                                  
INSTITUTIONAL, EDUCATIONAL AND ASSEMBLY USES
Business schools,
colleges and                                         SLU   
universities
Cemeteries              SLU                           SLU   
Churches and other
institutions for        SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU  P   P   SLU   
religious worship
Day care centers           SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU            Sec.
                                                                   5.8
Private service clubs,
social organizations                   SLU  SLU  P   P        
and lodge halls
Public buildings and
uses, but not including SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU  P   P   P     
outdoor storage yards
Public buildings and
uses, including outdoor                           SLU SLU   
storage yards
Public and private
elementary, middle and  P   P   P   P   P                      
high schools
Public and private
nursery schools and     P   P   P   P   P                      
kindergartens
Theaters, when                                 P           
completely enclosed
Training and/or
educational centers
where such centers are
designed and intended                             P   P     
to provide training at
the business, technical
and/or professional
level
RECREATION USES
Campgrounds and RV      SLU                           SLU   
parks
Country clubs, public
swimming pools and         SLU SLU SLU SLU               SLU   
recreation clubs
Golf courses, but not
including golf driving     SLU SLU SLU SLU                    
ranges
Golf courses, including SLU                                
golf driving ranges
Petting zoos            SLU                                
Public parks and        P   P   P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P     
playgrounds
Recreation and
amusement services,
including theaters,
bowling alleys, roller                         SLU SLU SLU   
and ice skatine rinks,
billiard halls and
miniature golf
OFFICE AND SERVICE RELATED USES
Banks, credit unions,
savings and loan
associations, excluding                P    P    P   P        
drive-through
establishments
Banks, credit unions,
savings and loan
associations, including                SLU         SLU      
drive-through
establishments
Business service
establishments such as
printing and
photocopying services,                 P    P    P   P   P     
mail and packaging
services, and typing
and secretarial
services
Funeral establishments           SLU    SLU  SLU  P   P        
Laundromats and dry                            P   P   P     
cleaning establishments
Office buildings for
the use of any of the
following occupations:
executive;
administrative;                        P    P    P   P        
professional;
accounting; writing;
clerical; stenographic;
drafting; and sales
Personal service
establishments, such as
barber and beauty
shops; watch, clothing                 P    P    P   P        
and shoe repair;
locksmith; and. similar
establishments
Radio, television, and
electrical appliance
repair, and shops of                           P   P        
plumbers, electricians
and other similar
services and trades
Studios for the
participation or
teaching of art, dance,
fitness, music,
photography and similar                P    P    P   P        
uses, including
ancillary sale of
products related to
such uses
Veterinary offices and
hospitals, including
accessory boarding,                    SLU  SLU  P   P   P     
provided no outdoor
exercise runs or pens
are permitted
Veterinary offices and
hospitals, including
accessory boarding,                                  SLU   
with outdoor exercise
runs or pens
MEDICAL RELATED USES
Hospitals                        SLU                       
Medical and dental
offices, when accessory
to a convalescent home,
nursing home, assisted           SLU                       
living or similar
residential care
facility
Medical and dental
offices, including                     P    P    P   P        
clinics and medical
laboratories
Medical research                                     P     
facilities
RETAIL USES
Flea markets            SLU                        SLU SLU   
Florist shops                          P        P   P        
Office, showroom or
workshop of an artist,
craftsman, carpenter                   P        P   P   P     
and similar creative
services requiring a
retail adjunct
Outdoor display of
products or materials
for retail sale or                     P        P   P   P    Sec.
rental when accessory                                              5.18
to a principal
permitted use
Outdoor sales of                                  SLU SLU  Sec.
manufactured products                                              5.15
Planned shopping                                  P   S     
centers
Retail sales                           P        P   P   P     
FOOD & DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS
Bar/lounge, including
brewpubs, serving                      SLU      SLU SLU      
beverages and/or
providing entertainment
Drive-in restaurants,
but excluding drive-                              SLU      
through restaurants
Fast food restaurants,
excluding drive-in and                 SLU      SLU         
drive-through
restaurants
Fast food restaurants,
including drive-in
restaurants but                                   SLU      
excluding drive-through
restaurants
Food services including
grocery, meat market,
bakery, restaurant,
delicatessen and fruit
market, and similar                    P        P   P        
self-service units but
not including any
business of a drive-in
type
Micro-breweries, small
wineries and small
distilleries, provided                                             Sec.
the brewing, wine-      SLU             SLU      SLU SLU     5.26
making and distilling
area is less than 2,500
square feet
Micro-breweries,
breweries, small                                                   Sec.
wineries, wineries,                                  P    5.26
small distilleries, and
distilleries
Restaurants and
cafeteria facilities                                 P     
for employees
Sidewalk cafes                         P        P   P       Sec.
                                                                   5.19
Sit down or carry out
restaurants, excluding                 P        P   P        
drive-in or drive-
through restaurants
VEHICULAR RELATED USES
Automobile repair
facilities, paint shops
and collision shops for
autos and other                                      SLU   
vehicles, farm
machinery and farm
equipment
Automobile service
stations and washes,                              SLU     Sec.
including drive-through                                            5.17
auto washes
Sale of new and used
automobiles, boats,                                                Sec.
mobile homes, farm                                SLU     5.15
machinery, and other
vehicles
LODGING USES
Bed and breakfast          SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU  SLU  P   P       Sec.
establishments                                                     5.20
Lodging facilities                     SLU      SLU SLU SLU   
STORAGE AND LOGISTICS USES
Self-storage facilities                              P    Sec.
                                                                   5.13
Trucking and transit                                 SLU   
terminals
Truck and industrial
equipment storage
yards, including                                     SLU   
repairing and washing
of trucks and equipment
Warehousing and
wholesale                                            P     
establishments
INDUSTRIAL USES
Data processing and
computer centers
including tne servicing                              P     
and maintenance of
electronic data
processing equipment
Contractor's
establisnments,
provided all products,                 SLU         SLU P    Sec.
material, and equipment                                            5.16
are stored witnin an
enclosed building
Contractor's
establisnments,                                      SLU  Sec.
including outdoor                                                  5.16
storage
Entrepreneurial and
business incubator                     P        P      P     
spaces
Manufacturing                                        P     
Metal fabrication, and                               SLU   
tool and die shops
Office, snowroom or
workshop of an artist,
craftsman, carpenter    SLU                           P     
and similar creative
services
Printing, publisning,                                P     
or related activities
Recycling operations                                 SLU   
Researcn and
development facilities,
tecnnical centers and
laboratories, and any
use charged with the                                 P     
principal function of
basic research, design
and pilot or
experimental product
development
OTHER USES
Adult entertainment                                  SLU  Sec,
establishments                                                     5.23
Mineral mining and                                   SLU  Sec,
extractive operations                                              5.21
                                                         
 
LEXINGTON NORTH SHORE'S MOBILE PARK
Rules and Regulations
Effective July 1, 2025
amended by The Village of Lexington Council on January 26, 2026
 
These Rules and Regulations govern the Lexington North Shores mobile home park
and are prepared in accordance with the Village of Lexington to provide all
tenants residing in Lexington North Shores with reasonable and responsible
guidelines to follow. The Village of Lexington and the State of Michigan have
instructed Lexington North Shores to enforce these Rules and Regulations in a
fair, nondiscriminatory, uniform manner.
To govern the policies and procedures stated in Lexington North Shores’ Rules
and Regulations, the Village of Lexington has adopted the following procedures
for all LNS rule violations that are consistent with the Village Ordinances and
enforcement timeline. LNS rule violations will follow Section 3 Enforcement and
Penalties below unless otherwise specified by the Village Ordinances. Please
see villageoflextington.com for current ordinance information or visit offices
for a copy.
I. Blight Enforcement 
Tenants and occupants in Lexington North Shores shall maintain their mobile
homes and lots in compliance with all applicable Village of Lexington
Ordinances, including, but not limited to, Village of Lexington Ordinances to
prevent, reduce, or eliminate blight. In addition to penalties and enforcement
actions allowable under Village of Lexington Ordinances, the failure to
maintain homes and/or property in compliance with Village of Lexington
Ordinances shall be considered a violation of these Rules and Regulations
subject to fines and penalties provided herein.
Please refer to Section
3-1-3-3 of the Village of Lexington and Zoning Code of Ordinances, as listed
below.
Section 3 Enforcement and Penalties
Failure to comply with such notice within the time allowed by the owner and/or
occupant (14 days) shall constitute a violation of this ordinance. Upon non-
compliance of this ordinance the property owner and/or occupant is subject to
payment of a fine of $100.00. If said property owner and or occupant remain in
non-compliance, fourteen days from the date of the first fine. He/she will be
subject to payment of a second fine of $200.00 If the property owner and/or
occupant is in non-compliance fourteen days from the date of second fine, he/
she is subject to a third fine of $300.00. If said property owner and/or
occupant remains in non-compliance after the third fine, the fine will increase
by $100.00 per day that the property owner or occupant remains in non-
compliance. After thirty days the third notice in non-compliance the violation
of said ordinance will be turned over to the court.
It is expected that all residents will correct the violation within the amount
of time noted. Failure to correct the violations, recurrent violations, or
continual violations will lead to eviction proceedings. Should a fine be placed
on a violation, the resident will have 30 days to pay it. Any payment received
late will be assessed a late fee. Any violations that receive a written warning
will be kept on file as part of a permanent record and may result in fines
depending on whether the rule or regulation has been cited in the past.
These rules are for the benefit of the residents in the park. Not every
situation can be predetermined therefore, it is important that a sense of
cooperation and respect for neighbors and their property be respected. There is
also an expectation that each resident will conform to the park standards and
rules.
The Mobile Home Buyers and Residents Handbook explains the Michigan Mobile Home
Commission Act and your rights and responsibilities. A copy is available in the
Village Office for your review or help online at https://michiqanleqalhelp.org.
II. Rent Rates 
Rent rates for lots are available at the Village Office. Rent rates will be
reviewed yearly based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics table for consumer
price index (CPI) for Midwest Urban Class. Any rent increases will be based on
the Bureau of Labor Statistics table.
The rent adjustment will not exceed the CPI percentage change for the December-
to-December period ending 12/31 of the prior year. The percentage difference
will be applied to the base rent and will be effective July 1st of each year.
Tenants will be notified 30 days prior to rent change, in writing, via first
class mail.
The rent rate described above does not cover the cost of mandatory utilities
required in the park, including water usage, water readiness, sewer usage,
sewer readiness, garbage and/or recycling pickup (the “Utilities”). In addition
to rent, tenants shall be responsible for the cost of Utilities at rates
determined by the Village of Lexington. Utility rates are subject to change
upon 30 days written notice to tenant delivered to tenant’s address of record
via first class mail. The rent rate also does not include other optional
utilities, such as electrical, gas, phone, cable and/or internet, which if
available, are the responsibility of the tenant.
III. Application for Residency 
All persons (18 years of age and older) desiring to purchase a mobile home,
lease a lot, or reside in Lexington North Shores must first apply for residency
and be approved by the Landlord prior to occupying the mobile home. A non-
refundable application fee of $50 leaseholder(s) AND/OR occupants (18 years of
age and older) is required. Criteria for applicants include the following:
   A.   Satisfactory credit check, proof of income, and criminal background
check.
   B.   No previous eviction from Lexington North Shores or any other rental
community.
   C.   No previous non-compliance with Lexington North Shores Rules.
   D.   Agree to comply with the Rules and Regulations and to sign a Lease
Agreement.
   E.   Failure to meet mobile home standards for occupancy ratios of:
 
1 1 bedroom home 2 occupants maximum
2 2 bedroom home 4 occupants maximum
3 3 bedroom home 6 occupants maximum
 
IV. Security Deposit 
   A.   All new tenants will be required to pay a security deposit equal to one
month's rent (not including utilities).
   B.   A security deposit is required at the time of the Lease Agreement being
signed. The first month’s rent will be due as noted in lease. The deposit will
be returned when the tenant leaves Lexington North Shores and:
      1   Mobile is in compliance with Michigan Mobile Home Laws and the Rules
and Regulations of Lexington North Shores.
      2   All arrearages, if any, have been paid in full.
      3   The lot is inspected by the Landlord and is in a neat and clean
condition free of debris. If the lot is in an unacceptable condition, the
Landlord will make arrangements for the lot to be remedied and the charge will
be deducted from the security deposit.
V. Financial and Legal Responsibilities 
   A.    Rent is due by the 5th of the month. A late fee of $35 will be added
to the rental amount on the 15th and will be due that month with the rent
payment. Nonpayment by the 15th of the month will result in a written legal
notice. The late charge assessed herein is related to the actual costs incurred
by the Landlord in the event of a late payment.
   B.    Payments may be made by personal check, cashier's check, money order,
credit card, or auto withdrawal through the Village office.
   C.    A charge of $35.00 for non-sufficient fund (NSF) checks will be
applied. If two NSF checks are received during the lease, future payments by
personal check will not be allowed and the tenant must pay by a cashier's check
or money order.
VI. Utilities
   A.   Before purchase/occupancy of any existing or new mobile home, the home
must be in compliance with the Village Zoning Rules and Regulations. Water
lines, sewer lines, electric, and gas must be hooked up within 30 days by a
licensed and insured contractor. One may not occupy a mobile home until ALL
utilities are CONNECTED and a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
   B.   Mobiles not equipped with heat tape must notify the village to have the
water shut off at the curb stop, and are responsible to have their plumbing and
village curb stop winterized from October 31, through April 15. Winterizing the
curb stop will consist of removing the cross fitting, or upper plug fitting,
and pumping the water out of the line below frost level. After the water has
been removed from the line, it shall be filled with non-toxic RV antifreeze and
the removed fittings are to be reinstalled. If there is any freeze damage to
the water lines OR to the curb stop, the repair will be at the expense of the
resident, both above and below ground level. The Landlord reserves the right to
discontinue water service to the home. If the water needs to be turned off in
an emergency, due to tenant negligence or noncompliance with Lexington North
Shores’ rules, there will be a fee of $50 to shut off and $50 to turn on after
all repairs are made. Tenants will not be allowed to turn on or shut off their
water at the curb stop. All mobiles must permit access to the curb stops for
emergency purposes. Starting January 1, 2020, all new mobiles, as well as
mobiles that receive plumbing alterations, must install shutoff valve at the
curb stop before the plumbing to the mobile begins.
      C.   The Village Office must be notified by the tenant or contractor,
verbally or in writing, when the mobile home is winterized each year.
      D.   All curb stops must be exposed and easily accessible by village
staff. Grass, dirt, cement, decks, porches, or any other elements may not cover
them, nor hinder their access or use.
      E .   Tenants shall be responsible for repairs and connection to
utilities which include the following:
      1.   Electric wiring from the breaker at the electric pedestal to the
home.
      2.   Sewer connection from the sewer cleanout to the home.
      3.   Water connection from the curb stop to the home. (If damage is
caused by the tenant's neglect beyond the curb stop, it is the tenant's
responsibility for any and all repairs, above or below ground, including the
water meter.
      4.   Gas connection from the gas shut-off valve to the home.
   F .   The tenant shall maintain electrical, sewer, water, and gas lines in a
safe and leak-proof condition. There shall be no alterations to any utility
lines or equipment by any tenant. A licensed contractor must work on these
utilities.
   G.   Tenants should not dispose of sanitary napkins, disposable diapers,
wipes, or other nondegradable items by flushing them down the toilet. The
tenant will be responsible for cleaning a blockage to the sewer line.
   H .   Relocation of any utility is the expense of the tenant when requesting
the relocation.
VII. Mobile Home Guidelines 
   A.   Prior to the replacement of any mobile home with another, the tenant
must submit an application to the Landlord for approval to move the old mobile
home off and the new mobile home onto the site. (If any state permits are
required those will be at the expense of the tenant).
   B.   All mobile homes new to Lexington North Shores must be a minimum of 500
sq. ft. and must be HUD-approved. If the mobile is older than 10 years, the
mobile must have a factory installed pitched shingle roof and lap vinyl siding.
The tiny-house movement (also known as the small house movement) is an
architectural and social movement that advocates for downsizing living spaces,
simplifying, and essentially “living with less”. According to the 2018
International Residential Code, Appendix Q Tiny Houses, a tiny house is a
“dwelling unit with a maximum of 37 square meters (400 square feet) of floor
area, excluding lofts”. The term “tiny house” is sometimes used interchangeably
with “micro-house”. Tiny houses, micro houses or the like are not permitted in
the park.
   C.   A licensed mobile home inspector must inspect all mobile homes, at
owner’s expense, before entering Lexington North Shores. All required repairs
must be made, and a re- inspection done, at owner’s expense, before occupancy
or being moved into Lexington North Shores. Landlord shall be provided a copy
of all inspection and re-inspection reports prior to a new mobile home entering
the park.
   D.   Each tenant must carry adequate "Fire and Extended Insurance Coverage”
($100,000) on his/her mobile home and must maintain reasonable general public
liability insurance. Each tenant will be required to provide proof of insurance
to the Landlord when the policy renews each year. Insurance info can be emailed
to northshores@villageoflexington.com, dropped off at the Village Office or
mailed.
   E.   Each mobile must be equipped with a fire extinguisher, a centrally
located smoke detector, and a smoke detector in each bedroom.
   F.   All mobiles placed in or moved within Lexington North Shores must have
gutters and downspouts installed within 30 days of the installation. Downspouts
shall be directed to the road.
   G.   The Village Office must be supplied with a copy of the title for proof
of ownership.
   H.   All changes in ownership must follow the process of an application to
sell, application to reside, and a new lease.
   I.   A tenant's shed must meet all setback and zoning requirements and must
not exceed a total of 80 sq. feet. Its placement shall not block utilities or
access to underneath the trailer.
   J.   When adding or replacing a shed, it should be vinyl sided and trimmed.
It should be anchored in such a manner to prevent wildlife access.
   K.   Every home shall have a numerical lot number on the exterior easily
visible from the road.
   L.   All mobile homes shall be properly maintained. Tenants are required to
keep mobiles updated and consistent with Lexington North Shores' vision,
aesthetics and appeal.
   M.   The storage of items in an unsightly manner is prohibited. There is no
covered storage of any kind, with the exception of fitted covers, or, for
winter storage (October 1st through April 30th), securely attached tarps
(black, gray, beige, or brown covers and tarps only).
   N.   The primary purpose of all mobile homes in the park must be
residential, only for those tenants identified and approved on the lease. No
mobile home shall be used for or in connection with the operation of a
commercial business, which in any way: (i) is noticeable or identifiable from
the outside of the mobile home; (ii) causes increased traffic in the park;
(iii) results in a nuisance in the park; or (iv) disrupts the quiet enjoyment
of other tenants in the park.
   O.   Only collapsible or umbrella-type clotheslines are permitted in
Lexington North Shores. Placement shall be near the rear of the lot and must be
collapsed after use.
   P.   Utility trailers, pop-up campers, and pickup campers ARE NOT ALLOWED in
Lexington North Shores. A tenant, however, may erect a tent on their lot for
use for up to 72 hours.
   Q.   Skirting is required on all mobiles, it should be installed within 30
days of home placement, and kept well maintained with vinyl skirt guard, if
necessary. The skirting material should be vinyl, aluminum, or simulated brick
or stone with approval by the LNS Caretaker or designee.
   R.   Short-term rentals are not permitted in the park.
   S.   Ornamental grasses must not exceed a maximum of four feet high.
Plantings shall not impair vision from the roadway. Dead plantings must be
removed by November 1st.
VIII. Home Site 
Any changes or additions to the home or site must comply with Village Zoning
Rules and Regulations. Please contact the park superintendent before making any
changes or additions.
You must keep an alternate telephone number on file. If there is an issue with
your lot, and a village official cannot reach you, they may contact the
alternate number.
Please refer to Sec.
5.7-5.10 and Sec
34-106 through
34-119 of the Village of Lexington Zoning and Code of Ordinances.
   1   ORD – Obstructions - there shall be no obstructions of any form within
ten (10) feet of the adjacent mobile home, including an attached structure that
may be used for living space.
   2   ORD - Mobile homes must be kept in a well-maintained condition. The lot
shall be kept neat, mowed, and clear of debris.
   3   ORD - The storage of flammable, combustible, or hazardous material is
expressly prohibited. The use of ancillary propane, fuel oil, or kerosene
heaters in the mobile home is prohibited. Propane cylinders for outdoor grills
are allowed.
   4   ORD - Air conditioners must be in working order and free of rust, loose
covers, and faulty connections. All window and wall units must be self-
supported.
   5   ORD - No outdoor aerials or towers are permitted. Satellite dishes and
digital antennas up to 24" in diameter and attached to the mobile are
permissible.
   6   ORD- No windows or doors should be covered with foil, paper, cardboard,
or metal.
   7    ORD - Free standing steps must be constructed of pre-cast concrete,
vented fiberglass, metal, or treated lumber and must include handrails. A
permit is required for new/or replacement steps. Steps installed in conjunction
with a new setup are included in the original permit.
   8   ORD - Ice and snow removal from sidewalks and driveways is the sole
responsibility of the tenant.
   9   ORD - Decks and porches must be of a design approved by the Village and
shall include a handrail. A permit is required.
   10   ORD - Screened-in porches must be factory installed and readily
removable. A permit is required.
   11   ORD - A temporary canopy may be erected for recreational use only. It
may not be used for a sleeping area. The canopy must be removed when the
tenants are not in residence.
   12   ORD - Children's swing sets are not permitted.
   13   Skirting is required on all mobiles. The skirting may be of vinyl or
aluminum and must be installed within 30 (thirty) days of the installation of
the mobile.
   14   ORD - Spray painting must meet Village Ordinances. See
5.7.10
   15   Renovations or repairs requiring a permit (building, electrical,
mechanical, plumbing) must be performed to meet Construction Code under
Michigan Construction Act as administered by Sanilac County
   16   ORD - Campfires shall be in an enclosed fire pit which must have a lid
and be a minimum of four feet (4) from any mobile. There shall be no open
fires. Fireworks are not allowed anywhere in the park.
   17   Fencing is not permitted on mobile home lots.
IX. Remodeling/Construction per Village Zoning Ordinance
   1.   Mobile home parks shall be subject to a preliminary site plan review
per the requirements and in accordance with PA 96 of 1987, as amended.
   2.   Any work done to the exterior (siding, painting, trim) of the mobile
shall be approved by the LNS Caretaker. If the LNS Caretaker does not approve
of the renovation, the tenant may appeal the changes to the Advisory Board.
X. Landscaping 
The Following Rules are per Village Zoning Ordinance (See Sec.
5.7.6 of Zoning Ordinance)
5.7.6. Mobile Home Lots (individual) shall be landscaped as follows:
   1.   Small shrubbery and flowers and/or flowerpots are allowed. Any/all
shrubbery, flowers, the lawn, etc. must be maintained by the tenant.
   2.   The planting of a tree requires approval from the environmental
committee of the Village of Lexington for location as well as species. MISS DIG
must be called prior to the placement of a tree. If the tenant fails to phone,
any/all damage to underground utilities shall be the sole responsibility of the
tenant.
   3.   Hardscape landscaping in the park (i.e. driveways, sidewalks, paver
paths, paver or concrete patios) are permitted only with a Land Use Permit and
an approved site plan. Prior to any digging or prep work for landscaping MISS
DIG must be called to identify all underground utilities. Damage to underground
utilities shall be the sole responsibility of the tenant if work is done
without MISS DIG identification.
   4.   Dumping of any refuse over the bluff is prohibited.
   5.   100% hardscaping of a lot is not allowed. All hardscaping must be
approved by a Village Land Use Permit.
4.6.7.   Mobile home parks shall be subject to a preliminary site plan review
per the requirements and in accordance with PA 96 of 1987, as amended.
4.6.8.   A permit shall not be required for the construction or erection of
canopies or awnings which are open on three (3) sides. A Land Use Permit and a
building permit shall be required before the construction of any screened,
glassed-in, or otherwise enclosed awning or canopy attached to the mobile. The
setback requirement for enclosed and attached structures from an adjacent hard
wall is ten (10) feet.
5.7.9. Set Back Requirements
 
District    Front          Side           Rear               Other
Mobile home 10 feet to the 10 feet to the 4 feet to the rear  
            street         next mobile    P/L
Sheds       10 feet to the 4 feet to the  4 feet to the rear Not to exceed 80
            street         next mobile    P/L                sq. ft.
                                                             On double frontage
                                                             lots: front 10
Deck        10 feet to the 4 feet to the  4 feet to the rear feet from the
            street         next mobile    P/L                street; 4 feet
                                                             from the secondary
                                                             street.
 
XI. Garbage Pickup 
Tenant shall comply with all rules and restrictions of any waste hauler
selected by Landlord to operate in the park.
   A.   Rubbish and trash must be placed in garbage bags and put in a container
at the curbside no earlier than 12:00 P.M. the day before pick up and no later
than 6:00 A.M. the day of pick up. The empty containers must be removed from
curbside no later than 12:00 P.M. the day after pick up. Any large article to
be picked up must be prearranged with the garbage company in advance. (877)
609-6753.
   B .   Yard waste must be placed in cans or containers clearly marked with an
"X", or in brown compost bags. Pickup is every Monday beginning with the first
Monday in April through November.
   C.   Recyclables will be picked up each Monday. Please place the bin
alongside the other garbage receptacles. It will be emptied and left for
continued use.
   D.   Dates of pickup may be subject to change due to holiday schedules or a
change to hauler contract — tenants will be notified.
   E .   Direct any questions to Emterra Customer Service – (810) 667-4885.
XII. Mail Delivery
All tenants are provided with an individual mailbox which requires a $10
deposit. The maintenance of the mailbox is the sole responsibility of the
Landlord. Contact the Landlord for any repairs. In the event of lost keys, the
Landlord will replace the lock on the tenant's mailbox for a charge of $50,
which covers the cost of the lock, installation, and 1 new key.
XIII. Conduct 
   A.   Tenants are responsible for their conduct and damage caused or created
by themselves, members of their household, or of their guests on any property
within Lexington North Shores.
   B .   Quiet time is from 11:00 P.M.-8:00 A.M. Exceptions may be made with
the permission of management, e.g. emergency construction.
   C.   If the police are called to a residence three or more times within a
12-month period for a complaint against the tenant, members of their household,
or their guests, the tenants will be subject to enforcement up to and including
eviction.
   D.   ORD - The curfew for minors under the age of 17 is 11:00 P.M. to 6:00
A.M., pursuant to the Village Ordinance section 38-71.
XIV. Selling or Transferring Mobile Homes 
   A.    In order for a mobile to be sold or transferred to another approved
resident and remain in Lexington North Shores, it must pass a home inspection,
and an "Application to Sell Mobile Home" form must be completed, submitted, and
approved by the village manager. All inspections must be performed by a
licensed and certified home inspector, at the owner’s expense, and performed
within three months of the closing of the home. If the home inspection fails,
another inspection is required, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days. Signed
documentation from the certified home inspector indicating completion of a
passed inspection must be submitted to the village before the closing
transaction of the home, or the title of the home is transferred, whichever
event occurs first. If the unit does not pass inspection within 90 days of the
first application, the mobile home must be removed from Lexington North Shores
at the owner's expense.
   B.   In order for a mobile to be added to the For-Sale listing in the
village office, an application for sale must be completed and approved by the
village manager.
   C.   Prospective buyers must first fill out an “Application to Reside” at
the village office and be approved to reside in Lexington North Shores before
completion of the sale. Should the home be vacant while in the process of
selling, the owner is responsible for all maintenance, rent, and utilities.
   D.   Land contracts, rent with the option to buy, or similar transactions
are NOT allowed.
   E.   Before occupancy, the purchaser must be approved to reside, sign the
lease, and pay the first month's rent and the security deposit equal to one
month's rent, not including utilities.
XV. Vehicle Regulations 
   A.    All vehicles must be parked off the streets and within lot lines. Only
two vehicles are allowed to park on a single lot, three vehicles on a corner
lot, a lot and a half, and a double lot (only if room permits, vehicles still
must be parked within lot lines). Written permission by a tenant to allow
others to park on their lot is required. Written, signed, and dated
documentation must be submitted to the park office during office hours and
before parking begins. Parking on another tenant's lot without permission is
prohibited. Temporary parking on a lot that is vacant is only allowed by
permit. Permits will be valid for a 72-hour period.
   B .   Speed limits are posted. Any tenant receiving two warnings for
exceeding the speed limit within a 6-month period is subject to enforcement up
to and including eviction. The Landlord will issue a warning letter to the
resident of the lot to which the speeder is residing and/or visiting. Remember
to caution your guests about the speed limit.
   C.   Heavy mechanical work on vehicles in Lexington North Shores is
prohibited. Minor maintenance, except for oil or other fluid exchanges, is
allowed.
   D.   All vehicles parked in Lexington North Shores must have a valid license
plate.
   E.   Trailers of any sort are not allowed to be stored or parked in
Lexington North Shores (Ordinance
5.7.4).
   F.   Lights and reflectors must be used on all non-motorized vehicles.
   G.   The use of non-licensed dirt bikes, snowmobiles, go-carts, and non-
licensed, non-permitted golf carts is prohibited in Lexington North Shores.
   H.   Trucks rated over one ton are prohibited from being parked in Lexington
North Shores.
   I.    No overnight parking of commercial vehicles or contractor's equipment
unless approved by the Landlord for a limited period of time and a permit is
issued.
   J.    Golf carts are allowed if they are licensed by the Secretary of State
and insured, or have a permit issued from the Village of Lexington Police
Department. Operators must have a valid driver’s license.
XVI. Beach Conduct 
The beach adjacent to the park is a public beach and for the use and enjoyment
of all tenants and their guests. Use of the beach is subject to the following:
   A.   Access to the beach is only permitted along the paved footpath or the
bluff stairways. No one is allowed to climb the bluff for any reason.
   B.   No lifeguard is on duty, residents and visitors swim at their own risk.
   C.   The beach is closed between the hours of 11 P.M. and 6:00 A.M.
   D.   Fires are not allowed on the beach.
   E.   No child under the age of 12 is permitted to use the beach without
adult or guardian supervision.
   F.   Glass containers and bottles are prohibited on the beach.
   G.   A buffer of 100 ft. created by a watercraft must exist between any
swimmer and the use of any watercraft. Overnight storage of watercraft on the
beach is prohibited.
   H.   Storage sheds or structures of any kind are not allowed on the beach.
Section 6-36. Regulated on public beaches.
   1.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person owning, harboring,
keeping or in charge of any dog shall allow such dog on any property in the
village designated as a public beach.
XVII. Pets
Please refer to Article II Dogs Sec. 6-31 Enforcement through Sec 6-37 of the
Village of Lexington Code of Ordinances.
   A.   House pets are the only animals allowed in Lexington North Shores. Pets
must be registered with the village office and need to be listed on the lease.
   B.   All pets must be properly inoculated and licensed. A current shot
record and County license must be submitted to the Village annually. Pet
records can be emailed to northshores@villageoflexington.com or drop off copies
to the Village Office or mailbox in the clubhouse.
   C.   A limit of two pets per household is permitted.
   D.   No animal shall be housed or penned outdoors. Animal shelters, houses,
and pens are prohibited. Visiting pets are the responsibility of the tenant.
   E .   All pets, including cats, must be on a leash at all times when outside
of the mobile home. No pets are allowed to remain outside unattended.
   F .   Animals are not allowed on the beach (above the high-water mark) or on
the playground.
   G.   Any animal that has bitten or attacked a person within Lexington North
Shores, shall be immediately removed from Lexington North Shores permanently.
Section 6-35. Cleaning up defecation.
No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any dog shall cause,
suffer or allow such dog to soil, defile, defecate or commit any nuisance on
any public street, sidewalk, park or other public property, or upon private
property without permission of the owner of the property unless:
   1.   The person who owns, harbors, keeps or is in charge of such dog shall
immediately remove all droppings deposited by such dog in any sanitary method.
The person shall possess a container of sufficient size to collect and remove
such dog droppings and exhibit the container, if requested, by any official
empowered to enforce this article. (This is a Grade A violation.)
   2.   The droppings so removed shall be disposed of by the person owning,
harboring, keeping or in charge of such dog in a sanitary method.
XVIII. Clubhouse Use
The clubhouse may be rented by residents of the Village of Lexington for a $40
rental fee plus a $100 deposit. The deposit will be refunded if the hall is
cleaned up after use. Reservations can be made at the village office.
