VILLAGE OF THREE OAKS, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2026 S-3, current through
Ordinance 248, passed 10-8-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Village of Three
Oaks Code.”
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE.  The Village of Three Oaks Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Berrien, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Three Oaks, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village, any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to re-zoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Village Comptroller’s office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Village of Three
Oaks Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall
then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Village of Three Oaks Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads
as follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become
obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that,
when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the
adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL AND VILLAGE PRESIDENT
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   BUDGET SYSTEM
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COUNCIL AND VILLAGE PRESIDENT
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of President and members of Village Council
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS OF VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The President of the village shall be paid the sum of $175 per month, and
each member of the Village Council shall be paid the sum of $100 per month for
serving in such capacity during their term of office, such payments to be made
out of the General Fund. Said officers shall receive no other compensation for
services performed for, or on behalf of, said village during their term of
office.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-13-1996)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Village Manager
   
31.02   Village Clerk
   
31.03   Village Treasurer
§ 31.01 VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of a Village Manager granted to the village in Public Act 3 of
1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 62.2 and 65.8 as amended, the office of Village Manager is
established.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Manager. The President shall, with the
concurrence of a majority of the Village Council, appoint a Village Manager.
The Village Council may enter into an employment contract with a Village
Manager for a period extending beyond the terms of the members of Village
Council but not exceeding six years. An employment contract with a Village
Manager shall be in writing and shall specify the compensation to be paid to
the Village Manager, any procedure for changing compensation, any fringe
benefits and any other conditions of employment. The contract shall state that
the Village Manager serves at the pleasure of the Village Council. The contract
may provide for severance pay or other benefits in the event the employment of
the Village Manager is terminated by the Village Council. The Village Manager
shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Council and may be removed by a
majority of the Village Council. The Village Manager shall be selected solely
on the basis of administrative and executive abilities, with special reference
to training and experience.
   (C)   Acting Village Manager. The President, with the concurrence of a
majority of the Trustees, shall appoint or designate an Acting Village Manager
during a vacancy in the office of Village Manager and shall make a permanent
appointment within 180 days from the effective date of the vacancy.
   (D)   Compensation. The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as
the Village Council shall determine by resolution or ordinance.
   (E)   Duties. The Village Manager shall be the chief administrative officer
of the village and shall be responsible to the Village Council for the
efficient administration of all affairs of the village and shall exercise
management supervision over all departments and over all public property
belonging to the village. The Village Manager shall have the following
functions and duties:
      (1)   Attend and participate in all meetings of the Village Council and
committees but shall not have a vote on such Village Council or committees;
      (2)   Be responsible for personnel management and shall issue, subject to
Village Council approval, personnel rules applicable to all village employees.
The Village Manager shall have the following responsibilities:
         (a)   To appoint, suspend or remove all appointed administrative
officers and department heads, subject to Village Council approval. The Village
Manager shall recommend to the Village Council the salary or wage for each such
official; and
         (b)   To appoint, suspend or remove all other employees of the
village. The Village Manager shall determine the salary for each such employee
subject to Village Council approval.
      (3)   Exercise supervisory control over all departments including the
Police Department and the Department of Public Works;
      (4)   Exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting, budgeting,
personnel, purchasing and related management functions of the Village Clerk and
Village Treasurer;
      (5)   Shall be authorized to attend all meetings of village boards and
commissions including the Village Planning Commission with the right to take
part but shall not have a vote;
      (6)   Prepare and administer the budget as provided for in the Uniform
Budgeting and Accounting Act, Public Act 2 of 1968, M.C.L.A. §§ 141.421 to
141.440a as amended, and any village ordinance that may be adopted;
      (7)   Be the purchasing agent of the village;
      (8)   Prepare and maintain written policies and procedures defining the
duties and functions of the several officers and departments of the village,
subject to the approval by the Village Council;
      (9)   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
village, and shall have authority at all times to inspect the books, records
and papers of any agent, employee or officer of the village;
      (10)   Make recommendations to the Village Council for the adoption of
such measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the improvement or
betterment of the village; and
      (11)   Perform other duties required from time to time by the Village
Council.
   (F)   Purchasing responsibilities. The Village Manager shall act as
purchasing agent for all village offices and departments. The Village Manager
may delegate some or all of the duties as purchasing agent to another officer
or employee provided that such delegation shall not relieve the Village Manager
of the responsibility for the proper conduct of those duties.
      (1)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any
product or service the cost of which does not exceed $2,500, provided that
funds have been appropriated. The cost of the product or service shall not
exceed the unencumbered balance of the appropriation for that account. Any
product or service the cost of which exceeds the above dollar amount shall be
purchased only if prior approval of the Village Council has been obtained. The
Village Manager may promulgate rules governing the purchase of products or
services.
      (2)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any
product or service regardless of its cost when such purchase is necessitated by
an emergency condition. EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean any event, which
presents an imminent threat to the public health or safety or any event which
would result in the disruption of a village service which is essential to the
public health or safety.
   (G)   Dealing with employees. Neither the Village Council nor the Village
President shall attempt to influence the employment of any person by the
Village Manager or in any way interfere in the management of departments under
the jurisdiction of the Village Manager. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the
Village President and Village Council and its members shall deal with
departments under the jurisdiction of the Village Manager through the Village
Manager.
(Ord. 178, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 31.02 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of such village officers as the Village Council shall deem
necessary for the execution of the powers granted to the village contained in
Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. § 62.1, as amended, there is hereby established
the office of the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk is an administrative officer
of the village.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Clerk. The Village President shall appoint the
Village Clerk, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the Village
Council. The Village Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the Village President
and may upon recommendation of the Village President, be removed by the
affirmative vote of a majority vote of the Village Council, but only after a
hearing before the Village Council. The Village Clerk will report and be
responsible to the Village President for the official functions and activities
of the Village Clerk’s position and for the day-to-day operations of the
office, except as otherwise provided by state law. The Village Clerk shall be
selected on the basis of administrative and technical abilities.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office of the Village Clerk shall be two
years from the second Monday of March of each even-numbered year and until a
successor is appointed.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Clerk shall possess all the powers vested in, and
shall be charged with the duties imposed upon, clerks by state law.
      (1)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall perform all other such duties
in the manner prescribed by the General Law Village Act of the state, Public
Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq., the ordinances of the village or by
state law.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned or prescribed by state law, ordinances of the village or resolutions
of the Village Council.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall:
         (a)   Be the Clerk of the Council and keep a permanent journal of its
proceedings;
         (b)   Keep a record of all ordinances, resolutions and actions of the
Council;
         (c)   Have power to administer all oaths required by state law and
ordinances of the village;
         (d)   Be custodian of the village seal, and affix it to all documents
and instruments requiring the seal and shall attest the same;
         (e)   Be custodian of all papers, documents and records pertaining to
the village, the custody of which is not otherwise provided for;
         (f)   Give the proper officials of the village reasonable notice of
the expiration or termination of any official bonds, franchises, contracts or
agreements;
         (g)   Issue and sign all licenses granted after the license fee has
been paid to the Treasurer and register the same;
         (h)   Certify by signature all ordinances and resolutions enacted or
passed by the Council;
         (i)   Conduct elections in accordance with the General Law Village Act
of the state, Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq. and state election
law;
         (j)   Be the general accountant of the village and maintain a system
of accounts which conform to such uniform system as may be required by state
law; and
         (k)   Publish and post notices of the village as required by state law
and ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 153, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 31.03 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of such village officers as the Council shall deem necessary for
the execution of the powers granted to the village contained in Public Act 3 of
1895, M.C.L.A. § 62.1, as amended, there is hereby established the office of
the Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer is an administrative officer of
the village.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Treasurer. The Village President shall appoint
the Village Treasurer, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the
Village Council. The Village Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the
Village President and may, upon recommendation of the Village President, be
removed by the affirmative vote of a majority vote of the Village Council, but
only after a hearing before the Village Council. The Village Treasurer will
report and be responsible to the Village President for the official functions
and activities of the Village Treasurer’s position and for the day-to-day
operations of the office, except as otherwise provided by state law. The
Village Treasurer shall be selected on the basis of administrative and
technical abilities.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office of the Village Treasurer shall be
two years from the second Monday of March of each even-numbered year and until
a successor is appointed.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Treasurer shall possess all the powers vested in,
and shall be charged with all the duties imposed upon, treasurers by state law.
      (1)   In addition, the Village Treasurer shall perform all other such
duties in the manner prescribed by the General Law Village Act of the state,
Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq., the ordinances of the village
or by state law.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned or prescribed by state law, ordinances of the village or resolutions
of the Village Council.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Have custody of all monies of the village and all evidence of
value belonging to the village, or held in trust by the village;
         (b)   Receive all monies belonging to and receivable by the village,
that may be collected by any officials or employees of the village, including
license fees, taxes, assessments, utility charges and all other charges
belonging to and payable to the village,
and in all cases give a receipt therefor;
         (c)   Keep and deposit all monies or funds in such manner and only in
such places as may be determined and report the same in detail to the Village
President and in accordance with the General Law Village Act of the state,
Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq., state law, ordinances and
policies;
         (d)   Have such powers, duties and prerogatives as are conferred by
law to enforce the collection of state, county, village and school taxes upon
real and personal property;
         (e)   Have custody of all investments and invested funds of the
village or in its possession in a fiduciary capacity; and
         (f)   Safely keep all bonds and notes of the village.
(Ord. 138, passed 11-8-2000)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Planning Commission
   
32.02   Village/Township Fire Department
Cross-reference:
   Governing Board of Downtown Development Authority, see §§
151.15 through
151.19
   Park and Recreation Board, see §§
93.01 through
93.05
   Parking Violations Bureau, see §§
72.01 through
72.06
§ 32.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Scope, purpose and intent. This section is adopted pursuant to the
authority granted the Village Council under the State Planning Enabling Act,
Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the State Zoning
Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to
establish a Planning Commission with the powers, duties and limitations
provided by those Acts and subject to the terms and conditions of this section
and any future amendments to this section. The purpose of this section is to
provide that the Village Council shall hereby confirm the establishment under
the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., of the Planning Commission formerly established under Public
Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45, to establish the
appointments, terms and membership of the Planning Commission; to identify the
officers and the minimum number of meetings per year of the Planning
Commission; and to prescribe the authority, powers and duties of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Establishment. The Village Council hereby confirms the establishment
under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., of the Planning Commission formerly established under Public
Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45. The Planning
Commission shall have seven members. Members of the Planning Commission as of
the effective date of this section shall, except for an ex officio member whose
remaining term on the Planning Commission shall be limited to his or her term
on the Village Council, continue to serve for the remainder of their existing
terms so long as they continue to meet all of the eligibility requirements for
Planning Commission membership set forth within the State Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801. et seq.
   (C)   Appointments and terms. The Village President, with the approval of
the Village Council by a majority vote of the members elected and serving,
shall appoint all Planning Commission members, including the ex officio member.
      (1)   The Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio member,
shall serve for terms of three years each.
      (2)   A Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment.
      (3)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
village, except that one Planning Commission member may be an individual who is
not a qualified elector of the village but who is a qualified elector of
another local unit of government. The membership of the Planning Commission
shall be representative of important segments of the community, such as the
economic, governmental, educational and social development of the village, in
accordance with the major interests as they exist in the village, such as
agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry and commerce. The membership shall also be
representative of the entire territory of the village to the extent
practicable.
      (4)   One member of the Village Council shall be appointed to the
Planning Commission as an ex officio member.
      (5)   An ex officio member has full voting rights. An ex officio member’s
term on the Planning Commission shall expire with his or her term on the
Village Council.
      (6)   No other elected officer or employee of the village is eligible to
be a member of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Removal. The Village Council may remove a member of the Planning
Commission for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written
charges and after a public hearing.
   (E)   Compensation. The Planning Commission members may be compensated for
their services as provided by Village Council resolution. The Planning
Commission may adopt bylaws relative to compensation and expenses of its
members for travel when engaged in the performance of activities authorized by
the Village Council, including, but not limited to, attendance at conferences,
workshops, educational and training programs and meetings.
   (F)   Officers and committees. The Planning Commission shall elect a
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members, and may create and fill other
offices as it considers advisable.
      (1)   An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to
serve as Chairperson. The term of each office shall be one year, with
opportunity for reelection as specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may also appoint advisory committees whose
members are not members of the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Bylaws, meetings and records. The Planning Commission shall adopt
bylaws and rules of procedure for the transaction of business.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular meetings
each year, and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the
meetings.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission’s bylaws, a
special meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or
by three other members, upon written request to the Secretary. Unless the
bylaws otherwise provide, the Secretary shall send written notice of a special
meeting to Planning Commission members at least 48 hours before the meeting.
      (3)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations. A writing prepared,
owned, used, in the possession of or retained by a Planning Commission in the
performance of an official function shall be made available to the public in
compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
   (H)   Annual report. The Planning Commission shall make an annual written
report to the Village Council concerning its operations and the status of the
planning activities, including recommendations regarding actions by the Village
Council related to planning and development.
   (I)   Authority to make master plan. Under the authority of the State
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq. and other applicable planning statutes, the Planning Commission shall make
a master plan as a guide for development within the village’s planning
jurisdiction.
      (1)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Planning Commission unless the Village Council passes a
resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the master plan.
      (2)   Unless rescinded by the village, any plan adopted or amended under
Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq., need not be readopted
under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq.
   (J)   Zoning powers. The Village Council hereby confirms the transfer of all
powers, duties and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning
commissions by the former City and Village Planning Act, Public Act 207 of
1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 et seq.; the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public
Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. or other applicable zoning
statutes to the Planning Commission formerly established under Public Act 285
of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.
   (K)   Capital improvements program. To further the desirable future
development of the village under the master plan, the Village Council, after
the master plan is adopted, shall prepare or cause to be prepared by the
Village President or by a designated nonelected administrative official, a
capital improvements program of public structures and improvements, showing
those structures and improvements in general order of their priority, for the
following six-year period. The prepared capital improvements program, if
prepared by someone other than the Village Council, shall be subject to final
approval by the Village Council. The Planning Commission is hereby exempted
from preparing a capital improvements plan.
   (L)   Subdivision and land division recommendations. The Planning Commission
may recommend to the Village Council provisions of an ordinance or rules
governing the subdivision of land.
      (1)   Before recommending such an ordinance or rule, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance or rule. The
Planning Commission shall give notice of the time and place of the public
hearing not less than 15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation within the village.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Village Council under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. Before
making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall contain
the name and address of the proprietor or other person to whom notice of a
hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing,
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be sent to that person
at that address by mail and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed platted land.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-8-2011)
§ 32.02 VILLAGE/TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. Three Oaks Township and Three Oaks Village, both of Berrien
County, Michigan, have heretofore by written agreement established pursuant to
Public Act 33 of 1951, M.C.L.A. §§ 48.801 to 48.813, as amended, a Fire
Administrative Board.
      (1)   This section is adopted for the purpose of providing financial
assistance to the township, the village and the Fire Administrative Board in
the operation of a Fire Department from those receiving direct benefits from
the fire protection services.
      (2)   It is the further purpose of this section to provide for full
funding of the Fire Department operation which remains, in part, an at-large
governmental expense based upon the general benefits derived by all property
owners within the township and the village from the existence of a Village/
Township Fire Department and its availability to extinguish fires within the
township and village and perform other emergency services.
   (B)   Charges. The following charges will be based on a time per-hour:
firefighter, equipment ($250/hr/truck) and the fair value of material used.
      (1)   The charges shall hereafter be due payable to the Fire
Administrative Board from a recipient of any of the following enumerated
services from the Village/Township Fire Department:
         (a)   Grass fire;
         (b)   Rubbish fire;
         (c)   Automobile fire;
         (d)   House/garage/barn fire;
         (e)   Fire in a commercial establishment;
         (f)   Fire in a industrial or manufacturing establishment;
         (g)   Fire in a multiple-family building;
         (h)   Hotel or motel fire;
         (i)   Aircraft fire;
         (j)   Train fire;
         (k)   Truck fire;
         (l)   Forest fire;
         (m)   Emergency rescue service;
         (n)   Resuscitator service;
         (o)   Swimming pool service;
         (p)   Hazards material service;
         (q)   False alarms; and
         (r)   Other services not specifically enumerated herein.
      (2)   Charges set out in this section and the exemptions therefrom set
out in division (D) below may be determined or adjusted from time to time by
resolution of the Township Board and the Village Council, and such adjustments
shall not require a formal amendment to this section.
   (C)   Time for payment. All of the foregoing charges shall be due and
payable to the Fire Administrative Board within 30 days after the date the
service is rendered and in default of payment shall be collectible as provided
herein.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following properties and services shall be exempt from
the foregoing charges:
      (1)   Fires caused by railroad trains which are the specific statutory of
railroad companies;
      (2)   Fires involving village and township buildings, grounds and/or
property; and
      (3)   Fire service performed outside the jurisdiction of the township or
village under a mutual aid contract with an adjoining municipality.
   (E)   Collection of charges. The Fire Administrative Board is hereby
delegated the authority and responsibility for billing and collecting charges
and may proceed in district court to collect any monies remaining unpaid and
shall pursue any and all other remedies provided by law for the collection of
said charges.
   (F)   Non-exclusive charge. The foregoing rates and charges shall not be
exclusive of the charges that may be made by the Fire Administrative Board for
the cost and expense of maintaining a Fire Department, but shall only be
supplemental thereto. Charges may additionally be collected by the village and
the township through general taxation by procedures provided by law or by a
special assessment established as provided by law. General Fund appropriations
may also be made to cover such additional costs and expenses.
   (G)   Multiple property protection. When a particular service rendered by
the Village/Township Fire Department directly benefits more than one person or
property, the owner of each property so benefitted and each person so
benefitted where property protection is not involved shall be liable for the
payment of the full charge for such service herein before outlined. The
interpretation and application of this section is hereby delegated to the
Village/Township Fire Chief subject only to appeal, within the time limits
provided herein for payment, to the Fire Administrative Board and shall be
administered so that charges shall only be collected from persons and property
who benefit from the service.
(Ord. 134, passed 8-11-1999)
CHAPTER 33: BUDGET SYSTEM
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Fiscal year
   
33.03   Chief Administrative Officer and Fiscal Officer
   
33.04   Budget policy statement
   
33.05   Budget estimates required
   
33.06   Budget forms
   
33.07   Department budget review
   
33.08   The budget document
   
33.09   Transmittal of budget to Village Council
   
33.10   Consideration of budget by Village Council
   
33.11   Passage of budget resolution
   
33.12   Procedure for disbursements
   
33.13   Limit on obligations and payments
   
33.14   Periodic finance reports
   
33.15   Transfers
   
33.16   Supplemental appropriations
   
33.17   Appropriation adjustment required
   
33.18   Violation may be cause for removal from office
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Budget Chapter.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.02 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on October 1 in each year and
close on September 30.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.03 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER AND FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Village President shall be the Chief Administrative Officer referred to
in this chapter and shall be responsible for the performance of the duties of
that officer enumerated in this chapter. The President may appoint a Fiscal
Officer and delegate to that officer any or all of the budgeting duties
specified in §§
33.05 through
33.08. The Fiscal Officer shall be responsible to the Chief Administrative
Officer for the performance of budgetary duties. The Fiscal Officer so
appointed shall be a member of the Village Council or the Village Manager.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 191, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 33.04 BUDGET POLICY STATEMENT.
   No later than May 1 of each year, the Chief Administrative Officer shall
send to each officer, department, committee, commission and board of the
Village a budget policy statement for the use of those agencies in preparing
their estimates of budgetary requirements for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.05 BUDGET ESTIMATES REQUIRED.
   Any officers, elected or appointed, departments, committees, commissions and
boards of the village financed in whole or in part by the village shall, on or
before June 1 of each year, transmit to the Chief Administrative Officer their
estimates of the accounts of money required for each activity in their agencies
for the ensuring fiscal year. They shall also submit any other information
deemed relevant by the Chief Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.06 BUDGET FORMS.
   The Chief Administrative Officer shall prescribe forms to be used in
submitting budget estimates and shall prescribe the procedures deemed necessary
for the guidance of officials in preparing such budget estimates. The Chief
Administrative Officer may also require a statement of the purposes of any
proposed expenditure and a justification of the services financed by any
expenditure.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.07 DEPARTMENT BUDGET REVIEW.
   The Chief Administrative Officer shall review the department estimates with
a representative or representatives from each department. The purpose of the
review shall be to clarify the estimates, ensure their accuracy and determine
their adherence to the policies enumerated by the Chief Administrative Officer
pursuant to §
33.04.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.08 THE BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   (A)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall prepare a budget, which shall
present a complete financial plan for the ensuing year, utilizing those
estimates received from the various agencies.
   (B)   The budget will be prepared in such a manner that shall assure that
the total of estimated expenditures including an accrued deficit in any fund
does not exceed the total of expected revenues including an unappropriated
surplus.
   (C)   The budget shall consist of the following parts:
      (1)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for the ensuing
fiscal year for each department and office of the village showing the
expenditures for the corresponding items for the current and last preceding
fiscal year;
      (2)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the village,
showing the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
      (3)   An estimate of the amount of surplus expected in the current fiscal
year; and
      (4)   An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the village which will
be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures and commitments during the
ensuing fiscal year. This should included:
         (a)   Sources other than taxes;
         (b)   Income from borrowing;
         (c)   Current and delinquent taxes; and
         (d)   Bond issues.
   (D)   Included in this estimate shall be:
      (1)   Corresponding figures for the current and preceding fiscal year;
      (2)   Such other supporting schedules as the Council may deem necessary;
and
      (3)   An informative summary of projected revenues and expenditures of
any special assessment funds, public improvement or building and site funds,
intragovernmental service funds or enterprise funds, including the estimated
total cost and proposed method of financing each capital construction project
and the projected additional annual operating cost and the method of financing
the operating costs of each capital construction project for three years beyond
the fiscal year covered by the budget.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.09 TRANSMITTAL OF BUDGET TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   No later than July 1 of each year, the Chief Administrative Officer
shall transmit the budget to the Village Council.
   (B)   The budget shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A draft resolution for adoption by the Council, consistent with the
budget, which shall set forth the anticipated revenue and requested expenditure
authority for the ensuing fiscal year in such form and in such detail deemed
appropriate by the Chief Administrative Officer, provided that it is consistent
with the uniform chart of accounts prescribed the state. No budget resolution
shall be submitted to the Council in which estimated total expenditures,
including an accrued deficit, exceed estimated total revenues, including an
available surplus; and
      (2)   A budget message which shall explain the reason for increases or
decreases in budgeted items compared with the current fiscal year, the policy
of the Chief Administrative Officer as it relates to important budgetary items,
and any other information that the Chief Administrative Officer determines to
be useful to the Council in its consideration of the proposed budget.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.10 CONSIDERATION OF BUDGET BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Village Council shall fix the time and place of a public hearing
to be held on the budget and proposed budget resolution. The Village Clerk
shall then have published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village, notice of the hearing and an indication of the place at which the
budget and proposed budget resolution may be inspected by the public. This
notice must be published at least seven days before the date of hearing.
   (B)   The Village Council may direct the Chief Administrative Officer to
submit any additional information it deems relevant in its consideration of the
budget and proposed budget resolution. The Village Council may conduct
budgetary reviews with the Chief Administrative Officer for the purpose of
clarification or justification of proposed budgetary items.
   (C)   The Village Council may revise, alter or substitute for the proposed
general budget resolution in any way, except that it may not change it in a way
that would cause total appropriations, including an accrued deficit, to exceed
total estimated revenues, including an unappropriated surplus. An accrued
deficit shall be the first item of expenditure in the general appropriations
measure.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.11 PASSAGE OF BUDGET RESOLUTION.
   (A)   No later than the second Wednesday of September, the Village Council
shall pass a resolution providing the authority to make expenditures and incur
obligations on behalf of the village.
   (B)   The Village Council may authorize transfers between appropriation
items by the Chief Administrative Officer within limits stated in the
resolution. In no case, however, may such limits stated in the resolution or
motion exceed those provided for in §
33.16.
   (C)   The village budget may include information concerning the amount of
tax levy expected to be required to raise those sums of money included in the
budget resolution. In conformance with state law, and at such times as the
Village Council shall determine to be appropriate, the Village Council shall
order to be raised by taxation those sums of money necessary to defray the
expenditures and meet the liabilities of the village for the fiscal year. The
Village Council may take such action after the value of the property in the
village as finally equalized has been determined.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.12 PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   No money shall be drawn from the village treasury unless the Village
Council has approved the annual budget.
   (B)   Each warrant, draft or contract of the village shall specify the fund
and appropriation, designated by a number assigned in the accounting system
classification established pursuant to law, from which it is payable and shall
be paid from no other fund or appropriation.
   (C)   Expenditures shall not be charged directly to any contingent or
general account. Instead, the necessary amount of the appropriation from such
account shall be transferred pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to the
appropriate general appropriation account and the expenditure then charged to
the account.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.13 LIMIT ON OBLIGATIONS AND PAYMENTS.
   No obligation shall be incurred against, and no payment shall be made from,
any appropriation account adopted by the budget resolution unless there is a
sufficient unencumbered balance in the account and sufficient funds are or will
be available to meet the obligation.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.14 PERIODIC FINANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall require the appropriate
agencies to prepare and transmit to him or her a monthly a report of village
financial obligations, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A summary statement of the actual financial condition of the
General Fund at the end of the previous month;
      (2)   Summary statement showing the receipts and expenditures and
encumbrances for the previous month and for the then current fiscal year to the
end of the previous month;
      (3)   A detailed listing of the expected revenues by major sources as
estimated in the budget, actual receipts to date for the current fiscal year,
the balance of estimated revenues to be collected in the current fiscal year
and any revisions in revenue estimates occasioned by collection experience to
date; and
      (4)   A detailed listing for each organizational unit and activity of the
amount appropriated, the amount charged to each appropriation in the previous
month and for the current fiscal year to date, and the unencumbered balance of
appropriations and any revisions in the estimate of expenditures.
   (B)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall transmit the above information
to the Village Council on a monthly basis, but not later than 48 hours prior to
the regularly scheduled monthly Village Council meeting.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.15 TRANSFERS.
   Transfers of any unencumbered balance, or any portion, in any appropriation
account to any other appropriation account may not be made without amendment of
the budget resolution as provided in this chapter, except that transfers within
a fund and department may be made by the Chief Administrative Officer within
limits set by the budget resolution.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.16 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Council may make supplemental appropriations by amending
the original budget resolution as provided in this chapter, provided that
revenues in excess of those anticipated in the original resolution become
available due to:
      (1)   An unobligated surplus from prior years becoming available; and/or
      (2)   Current fiscal year revenue exceeding original estimates in amounts
great enough to finance the increased appropriations.
   (B)   The Village Council may make a supplemental appropriation by
increasing the dollar amount of an appropriation item in the original budget
resolution or by adding additional items. At the same time, the estimated
amount from the source of revenue to which the increase in revenue may be
attributed shall be increased or a new source and amount added in a sum
sufficient to equal the supplemented expenditure amount. In no case may such
appropriations cause total estimated expenditures, including an accrued
deficit, to exceed total estimated revenues, including an unappropriated
surplus.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.17 APPROPRIATION ADJUSTMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever it appears to the Chief Administrative Officer or the Village
Council that actual and probable revenues in any fund will be less than the
estimated revenues upon which appropriations from such fund were based, the
Chief Administrative Officer shall present to the Village Council
recommendations, which, if adopted, will prevent expenditures from exceeding
available revenues for the current fiscal year. Such recommendations shall
include proposals for reducing appropriations, increasing revenues or both.
   (B)   Within 20 days of receiving this information the Village Council shall
amend the budget resolution by reducing appropriations or approving such
measures as are necessary to provide revenues sufficient to equal
appropriations, or both. The amendment shall recognize the requirements of
state law. If the Village Council does not make effective such measures within
this time, the Chief Administrative Officer shall, within the next five days
and as a temporary measure until the Council takes action to amend the budget
resolution, make adjustments in appropriations in order to equalize
appropriations and estimated revenues and report such action to the Village
Council.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.18 VIOLATION MAY BE CAUSE FOR REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Any violation of §§
33.12 through
33.17 may be cause for removal of any elected or appointed officer in the
manner prescribed by the Village Council for the removal of such officer or
employee.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Special Assessment Procedure
   
34.01   Special assessments for public improvements
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Initiation of special assessment projects
   
34.04   Survey and report
   
34.05   Determination on the project; notice
   
34.06   Hearing
   
34.07   Special assessment roll; review and corrections
   
34.08   Limitations of actions
   
34.09   Special assessments, when due
   
34.10   Partial payments, when due
   
34.11   Delinquent special assessments
   
34.12   Creation of lien
   
34.13   Additional assessments, refunds
   
34.14   Additional procedures
   
34.15   Collection of special assessments
   
34.16   Special assessment accounts
   
34.17   Reassessment for benefits
   
34.18   Assessing single lots
   
34.19   Notice of hearing
   
34.20   Anticipatory borrowing and bond issues
**** SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE ****
§ 34.01 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Council, by adopting a resolution, may determine the whole or a
part of the expense of a local public improvement or repair shall be defrayed
by special assessments upon the property specially benefitted.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, shall mean
the same as “expense” and shall include the cost of services, plans,
condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices, advertising, financing, construction
and legal fees, and all other public costs incidental to the making of such
improvements, the special assessments therefor and the financing thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in
the vicinity of such improvement. It shall include, but not be limited to, the
following improvements, including the land therefor: public buildings and
offices, garbage collection, firehouses, destroying weeds, tree trimming,
street lighting, streets, alleys, lanes, bridges, sewers, drains, water
courses, water systems, or any other local public improvement or repair.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.03 INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the
village, and the determination that the whole or any part of the expense
thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted, provided that all special assessments levied shall be in proportion
to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be commenced by resolution
of the Village Council, with or without a petition.
   (B)    Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by
property owners owning 65% or more of the total property in the proposed
special assessment district. Such petition shall contain a brief description of
the property owned by the respective signers thereof and, if it shall appear
that the petition is signed by at least 65% of said owners, the Village Clerk
shall certify the same to the Village Council. The petition shall be addressed
to the Village Council but the Village Council shall not be obligated to make
the improvement.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.04 SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the Village Council shall consider the making of any local public
improvement, the same shall be referred by resolution to the Village President
directing him or her, or his or her designee, to cause to be prepared a report
which shall include necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed
estimates of costs, an estimate of the life of the improvement, a description
of the assessment district or districts, and such other pertinent information
as will permit the Council to decide the cost, extent and desirability of the
improvement proposed and what part or proportion thereof should be paid by
special assessments upon the property especially benefitted and what part, if
any, should be paid by the village at large. The Council shall not finally
determine to proceed with the making of any local public improvement until such
report of the Village President has been filed, nor until after a public
hearing has been held by the Council for the purpose of hearing objections to
the making of such improvement.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.05 DETERMINATION ON THE PROJECT; NOTICE.
   (A)   After the Village President has presented the report required in §
34.04 for making any local public improvement as requested in the resolution of
the Village Council, and the Village Council has reviewed said report, a
resolution may be passed approving the local public improvement, setting forth
the nature thereof, prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of such
improvement shall be paid by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted, determination of benefits received by affected properties, and what
part, if any, shall be paid by the village at large; designating the limits of
the special assessment district to be affected, designating whether to be
assessed according to frontage or other benefits, placing the complete
information on file in the office of the Village Clerk, where the same may be
found for examination, and directing the Village Clerk to give notice of public
hearing on the proposed improvement, at which time and place opportunity will
be given interested persons to be heard.
   (B)   Such notice shall be given by one publication in a newspaper published
or circulated within the village and by first class mail addressed to each
owner of or person in interest in property to be assessed as shown by the last
general tax assessment roll of the village, said publication and mailing to be
made at least ten full days prior to the date of said hearing. The hearing
required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned, or special
meeting of the Village Council.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.06 HEARING.
   (A)   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons
interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Village
Council may modify the scope of the local public improvement in such a manner
as it shall deem to be in the best interest of the village as a whole; provided
that if the amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district,
then another hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in §
34.05.
   (B)   If the determination of the Village Council shall be to proceed with
the improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimates of cost and
directing the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the Village Council’s determination and report the same to the Village Council
for confirmation. Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the Council
may, in its discretion, delay the preparation of the special assessment roll
until after the completion of the improvement, in which case the actual cost
thereof shall be reported to the Village Council, and the special assessment
roll shall be then made for such actual cost rather than for the estimated cost
as in other cases.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; REVIEW AND CORRECTIONS.
   (A)   Special assessment roll. The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by Village Council, and shall assess to
each such lot or parcel of land such relative portion of the whole sum to be
levied against all the lands in the special assessment district as the benefit
to such lot or parcel of land bears to the total benefits to all lands in such
district. There shall also be entered upon such roll the amount which has been
assessed to the village at large. When the Assessor shall have completed such
assessment roll, he or she shall attach thereto, or endorse thereon, his or her
certificate to the effect that said roll has been made by him or her pursuant
to a resolution of the Village Council (giving date of adoption of same) and
that in making the assessments therein he or she has, as near as may be
according to his or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the
directions contained in such resolution and to this subchapter, and to the
state law and to the provisions of this section. Thereupon he or she shall file
said special assessment roll with the Village Clerk who shall present the same
to the Village Council.
   (B)   Meeting to review special assessment roll; objections in writing. Upon
receipt of such special assessment roll, the Village Council, by resolution,
shall accept such assessment roll and order it to be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place the Village
Council will meet to review such special assessment roll and direct the Village
Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard. Such notice shall be given by
one publication in a newspaper published or circulated within the village and
by first class mail addressed to each owner of, or person in interest in,
property to be assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the
village, said publication and mailing to be made at least ten days prior to the
date of said hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at any
regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Village Council. At this meeting,
all interested persons or parties shall present in writing or orally their
objections, if any, to the assessments against them. The Assessor shall be
present at every meeting of the Village Council at which a special assessment
is to be reviewed.
   (C)   Changes and corrections in assessment roll. The Village Council shall
meet at the time and place designated for the review of such special assessment
roll, and at such meeting, or a proper adjournment thereof, shall consider all
objections orally or in writing. The Village Council may correct said roll as
to any special assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or other
errors appearing therein; or it may, by resolution, annul such assessment roll
and direct that new proceedings be instituted. The same proceedings shall be
followed in making a new roll as in the making of the original roll. If, after
hearing all objections and making a record of such changes as the Village
Council deems justified, the Village Council determines that it is satisfied
with said special assessment roll and that assessments are in proportion to
benefits received, it shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting such
determinations, confirming such roll, placing it on file in the office of the
Village Clerk and directing the Village Clerk to attach his or her warrant to a
certified copy thereof within ten days, therein commanding the Assessor to
spread and the Village Treasurer to collect the various sums and amounts
appearing thereon as directed by the Village Council. Such roll shall have the
date of confirmation endorsed thereon and shall from that date be final and
conclusive for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies, subject only
to adjustment to conform to the actual cost of the improvement, as provided in
§
34.13.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.08 LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.
   (A)   An action may not be instituted for the purpose of contesting or
enjoining the collection of a special assessment unless:
      (1)   Within 45 days after the confirmation of the special assessment
roll, written notice is given to the Village Council indicating an intention to
file such an action and stating grounds on which it is claimed that the
assessment is illegal; and
      (2)   The action is commenced within 90 days after the confirmation of
the roll.
   (B)   If a portion of an assessment roll is determined to be illegal in
whole or in part, the Village Council may revoke its confirmation, correct the
illegality, if possible, or reconfirm it. Property which is not involved in the
illegality may not be assessed more than was imposed upon the original
confirmation without further notice and hearing thereon.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.09 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS, WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except such installments thereof as the Council
shall make payable at a future time as provided in this subchapter, shall be
due and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.10 PARTIAL PAYMENTS, WHEN DUE.
   (A)   The Village Council may provide for the payment of special assessments
in annual installments. Such annual installments shall not exceed 20 in number,
the first installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on such date
as the Village Council may determine and deferred installments being due
annually thereafter, or in the discretion of the Village Council, may be spread
upon and made a part of each annual village tax roll thereafter until all are
paid.
   (B)   Interest shall be charged on all deferred installments at a rate of 7%
or the highest amount permitted by state law for such assessments, whichever is
greater, commencing on the due date of the first installment and payable on the
due date of such subsequent installment; the full amount of all or any deferred
installments, with interest accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid
in advance of the due dates thereof.
   (C)   If the full assessment or the first installment thereof shall be due
upon confirmation, each property owner shall have 60 days from the date of
confirmation to pay the full amount of said assessment, or the full amount of
any installments thereof, without interest or penalty. Following said 60-day
period, the assessment or first installment thereof shall, if unpaid, be
considered as delinquent and the same penalties shall be collected on such
unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as are provided in this
subchapter and state law to be collected on delinquent general village taxes.
Deferred installments shall be collected without penalty until 60 days after
the due date thereof, after which time such installments shall be considered as
delinquent and such penalties on said installments shall be collected as are
provided in the village ordinance to be collected on delinquent general village
taxes.
   (D)   After the Council has confirmed the roll, the Village Treasurer shall
notify by mail each property owner on said roll that said roll has been filed,
stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of
the Village Treasurer to give said notice or of such owner to receive said
notice shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the village or any
assessment thereon, nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties. At the
option of the Village, the notice or bill for the amount owing may be sent out
after the project has been completed. In such event no interest shall be owing
nor shall the 60-day period begin to run until after the notice has been mailed
by the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.11 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid on the first Monday of
March following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as
unpaid by the Village Treasurer to the Village Council. Any such delinquent
assessment, together with all accrued interest shall be transferred and
reassessed on the next annual village tax roll in a column headed “special
assessments” with a penalty of 4% upon such total amount added thereto, and
when so transferred and reassessed upon said tax roll shall be collected in all
respects as provided for the collection of village taxes.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.12 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the village from the
persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general laws for state, county and village taxes, and the lands upon
which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as are
lands upon which delinquent village taxes constitute a lien.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.13 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS, REFUNDS.
   The Village Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local
or special public improvement; compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special assessment roll to correspond
therewith. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary, by 5% or less,
the same shall be reported to the Village Council which may place the excess in
the village treasury or make a refund thereof prorata according to the
assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by more than 5%, the
entire excess shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the village
assessment roll upon which such assessment has been levied, prorata according
to the assessment; provided, however, that no refunds of special assessments
may be made which impair, or contravene the provision of any outstanding
obligation or bond secured in whole or part by such special assessments. When
any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the cost of the
improvement for which it was made, the Council may make an additional prorata
assessment, but the total amount assessed against any one parcel of land shall
not exceed the benefits received by said lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.14 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this subchapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Village Council shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures
required.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.15 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment roll or combination of rolls shall be set in a separate fund for the
payment of the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of
the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.16 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds are
authorized.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.17 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the Village Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in
whole or in part, the Village Council shall have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made, whether the improvement or any part thereof has been completed and
whether any part of the assessment has been collected or not. All proceedings
on such reassessment and for the collection thereof shall be made in the manner
as provided for the original assessment. If any portion of the original
assessment shall have been collected and not refunded, it shall be applied upon
the reassessment and the reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied.
If more than the amount reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall
be refunded to the person making such payment.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.18 ASSESSING SINGLE LOTS.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the village upon or in respect
to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against such premises and
the owner thereof under the provisions of this subchapter, or any ordinance of
the village, or law of the state, and is not of that class required to be
prorated among several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment
district, an account of the labor, material or service for which such expense
was incurred, with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which
the expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be
reported to the Village Clerk who shall immediately charge and bill the owner,
if known. The Village President shall annually on or before January 15, or at
such other times as he or she may deem advisable, direct the Assessor to
prepare a special assessment roll covering all such charges which shall not
have been paid. Said roll shall be filed with the Village Clerk who shall
present the same to the Village Council. However, the Village Council may
follow the entire procedure used for other special assessments. Upon
confirmation of any special assessment roll authorized by this section, the
Village Council shall determine the number of installments in which assessments
may be paid, not to exceed 20 and the rate of interest to be charged on
installments, but not to exceed the highest legally permitted amount or 7%,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.19 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   In all cases where special assessments are made against property, notice of
all hearings in the special assessment proceedings shall be given as provided
in this subchapter, in addition to any notice of such hearings to be given by
publication or posting as required by statute, charter or ordinance. The LAST
GENERAL TAX ASSESSMENT ROLL OF THE VILLAGE means the last assessment roll for
ad valorem tax purposes which has been reviewed by the local board of review,
as supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names or the addresses of such
owners or parties listed thereon.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.20 ANTICIPATORY BORROWING AND BOND ISSUES.
   The Village Council may borrow money and issue bonds of the village therefor
in anticipation of the payment of special assessments in one or more special
assessment districts, which bonds may be an obligation of the special
assessment districts or may be both an obligation of the special assessments
district and a general obligation of the village. The Village Council may issue
general obligation bonds to defray that portion of the cost and expense of a
local public improvement chargeable to the village at large.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   CROSS CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
Village Collection Service
   
50.01   Establishment
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   License required
   
50.04   License application
   
50.05   Residential collection license
   
50.06   Equipment
   
50.07   Vehicles to be covered
   
50.08   Fees
   
50.09   Additional requirements for garbage licenses
   
50.10   Rate payment
   
50.11   Application for new service
   
50.12   Discontinuing service
   
50.13   Construction, placement of containers
   
50.14   Recyclables
   
50.15   Ownership
   
50.16   Separation of garbage, trash and recyclables
Yard Waste
   
50.30   Definitions
   
50.31   Duration and hours of yard waste collection program
   
50.32   Containers; mixing of yard waste and trash prohibited
   
50.33   Depositing yard waste in street prohibited
   
50.34   Enforcement; violations
   
50.35   Conflicting provisions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Prohibiting dumping on streets, see §
92.26
**** VILLAGE COLLECTION SERVICE ****
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be a Village Garbage, Trash and Recyclables Collection Service
for the residents of the village. The village is hereby authorized to
appropriate such monies and employ or contract with such persons as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Discarded animal and vegetable matter of any form or nature, any or
all other organic matter associated with or produced by food, cooking or
eating, other than sewage and yard waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Hazardous waste shall be defined pursuant to state and
federal law.
   LICENSEE. Those collectors and haulers duly licensed by the village to pick
up, collect and transport garbage, trash and recyclables.
   RECYCLABLES or RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials which have been used once, in
manufacturing or indirect consumption, that can be used to manufacture new
products. RECYCLABLES include but are not limited to: aluminum; corrugated
paper; cardboard; glass; HDPE plastic; magazine paper; metals; newsprint;
polystyrene; PET plastic; and rubber.
   TRASH or RUBBISH. Anything not recyclable; materials or substances
discharged or rejected as being spent, useless, worthless or in excess to the
owner at the time of such discard or rejection, except sewage, highly diluted
water-carried materials, hazardous waste, batteries, oil, tires and yard waste.
   YARD WASTE. Organic materials such as leaves, branches and grass.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit for funds for, collect funds, aid in collection,
conspire to collect or collect any garbage, trash, ashes, rubbish and
recyclables within the village for disposal unless and until he or she has been
duly licensed by the village. There shall be a maximum of one license issued
for residential garbage, trash and recyclables pickup and a maximum of five
licenses issued for commercial pickup.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04    LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for licenses to pick up, collect and transport
garbage, trash and recyclables shall be made to the Village Clerk. Applicants
shall state their name, address, type of license desired, description of
equipment to be used and location of disposal area for garbage and trash; and
types of recyclables to be picked up by applicant. All applications for
licenses shall be referred by the Village Clerk to the Village Council, who in
conjunction with the Chief of Police, shall cause an investigation to be made
and make recommendations to the Village Council as to the granting or rejecting
of the license for each applicant. The Village Council shall consider the
recommendations of the Chief of Police and shall approve or reject the granting
of all licenses under this subchapter.
   (B)   Applications for licenses may be rejected by the Village Council, or
licenses already granted may be revoked by the Village Council for the
following reasons:
      (1)   Improper, unsanitary or lack of equipment, conveyances or vehicles
used to transport the garbage, trash and recyclables;
      (2)   Unsatisfactory or unsanitary disposal areas; or
      (3)   Inability or failure to comply with this subchapter or the terms
and provisions of rules and regulations relating to garbage, trash and
recyclables pickup and disposal as as may be adopted from time to time by the
village.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.05    RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION LICENSE.
   As provided in §
50.03 above, there shall be only one license issued for residential garbage,
trash and recyclables collection. The Village Council shall accept bids to
provide residential collection service meeting the terms of this subchapter.
The residential license shall be awarded to the successful bidder with whom the
village shall enter into a contract providing for such collection. The contract
for collection shall not exceed 30 years. The village shall require the
successful bidder to provide adequate proof of insurance and may require the
posting of an adequate performance bond.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.06 EQUIPMENT.
   No license shall be granted by the Village Council to any applicant unless
the conveyance or vehicle to be used by the applicant to pick up and transport
any garbage, trash and recyclables shall have a leak proof box to properly
contain and hold the garbage, trash and recyclables. All conveyances or
vehicles used to transport garbage, trash and recyclables shall be equipped
with tailgates.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07    VEHICLES TO BE COVERED.
   Applicants and licenses shall be required to have their vehicles or
conveyances equipped with coverings, permanent or temporary, so as to prevent
garbage, trash and recyclables from blowing or falling off the conveyance while
being transported.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.08 FEES.
   (A)   Application fees. Applicants shall pay to the Village Clerk with such
applications such fees as shall be determined by the Village Council.
   (B)   Service fees. Residential and commercial users shall pay such fees as
shall be determined by the Village Council on an annual basis.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.09 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR GARBAGE LICENSES.
   In addition to the qualifications and requirements stated elsewhere in this
subchapter, all licensees shall be required to meet the following additional
requirements.
   (A)   All licensees shall be required to transport garbage, trash and
recyclables in a motor vehicle.
   (B)   All licensees shall be required to have said motor vehicle or vehicles
equipped with a leak-proof box or container to hold and contain all materials
collected.
   (C)   All licensees shall be required to operate and maintain equipment and
facilities in a manner such as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (D)   All licensees shall be required to keep said motor vehicle or vehicles
in a clean and sanitary condition by washing same after each day of collection
by means of a pressure hose. All vehicles used in the collection of garbage and
trash shall be repainted at least once each year.
   (E)   Each vehicle licensed to haul garbage, trash and recyclables in the
village shall display in plain view the village license number with decals not
less than four inches in height.
   (F)   All licensees shall be required to prepare and file with the Village
Clerk before picking up and transporting any garbage, trash and recyclables, a
collection and route schedule listing dates and times garbage, trash and
recyclables will be collected and routes to be covered on said dates. Such
schedules as filed shall be adhered to by each licensee.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990) Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.10    RATE PAYMENT.
   Every household within the village shall annually pay the Village Clerk in
advance for collection service. The collection service fee shall be added to
the household tax bill and collected with such bill.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 104, passed 1-9-1991; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-
1993)
§ 50.11    APPLICATION FOR NEW SERVICE.
   Every household within the village shall make proper application with the
Village Clerk for new service.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 104, passed 1-9-1991; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-
1993)
§ 50.12    DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   Every household which must discontinue service because of relocation or
absence shall notify the Village Clerk 15 days in advance of discontinuation of
service, but shall not be entitled to a refund of the unearned service fees
paid.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 50.13    CONSTRUCTION, PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The customer shall place the containers of garbage and trash at the
curb front of the premises or at the edge of the street on a day designated for
said pickup by the collector and at a said time designated for the arrival of
the collector. After the containers have been emptied by the collector the
customer shall promptly remove said containers from the street. Any person who,
because of physical disability, age or infirmity, is unable to place containers
at the curb or street may make special arrangements directly with the collector
for the movement of such containers.
   (B)   All containers furnished by the customer as containers for bags of
garbage and trash, and as containers for separated recyclables shall be of
substantial construction, strong enough to hold and contain when handled, the
contents of such containers. All containers from residential customers shall
not exceed 40 gallons capacity.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 50.14    RECYCLABLES.
   Every and all recyclables shall be separated from other solid waste, garbage
and trash. Recyclables shall be cleaned. All recyclables shall be placed in an
appropriate and suitable container and separated according to type.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15    OWNERSHIP.
   Ownership of recyclables set out for collection shall thereupon vest in the
village. It shall be unlawful for a person to collect, remove or dispose of
recyclables which are property of the village without first having obtained a
license required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 SEPARATION OF GARBAGE, TRASH AND RECYCLABLES.
   All garbage from residential customers shall be drained and wrapped and
placed in a separate container from recyclables. All garbage and trash from
residential customers shall be placed in designated bags which shall be marked
in an appropriate fashion as shall be determined by the Village Council. All
violations of this section shall be reported to the Village Clerk by the
collector and at the option of the village such services may be discontinued
for such violation.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
**** YARD WASTE ****
§ 50.30    DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE YARD WASTE. Grass clippings and garden weeds, leaves and
trimmings.
   APPROVED YARD WASTE CONTAINERS. Include paper yard waste bags, 32-gallon
cans clearly marked “yard waste” or biodegradable plastic bags.
   BRUSH (2-INCH IN DIAMETER OR LESS). Is considered yard waste if
containerized in an approved waste container.
   CONTAINERIZED. The placement of yard waste in an approved yard waste
container so as to prevent yard waste from spilling or blowing out of the
container and coming into contact with the sidewalk, street, curb or storm
drain.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, association or other entity
not otherwise specified.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, parkway, viaduct, drive, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway and
includes the area between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and
may compromise pavement shoulders, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, parking areas and
other areas within the street.
   TRIMMINGS/BRANCHES BETWEEN 2 INCHES TO 6 INCHES IN DIAMETER. Will be
collected with the yard waste provided they are bundled with twine and tied.
Bundles should be four feet maximum in length and a maximum of 60 pounds each.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 50.31    DURATION AND HOURS OF YARD WASTE COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The yard waste collection program will run annually from the first
Monday in April until the second Monday in November.
   (B)   During the yard waste season, the Department of Public Works will
collect all properly containerized and properly placed yard waste on a schedule
as determined by the Village Council. Yard waste containers (approved bags or
other approved waste receptacles) should be placed curbside by 8:00 a.m. the
morning of pick up.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009) Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.32    CONTAINERS; MIXING OF YARD WASTE AND TRASH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All containers (bags or designated yard waste receptacles containing
yard waste) and bundled trim and branches must not exceed a 60-pound weight
limit.
   (B)   Yard waste collected in non-biodegradable plastic bags or single layer
paper bags is prohibited and will not be collected.
   (C)   Mixing of yard waste with regular trash is prohibited.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33    DEPOSITING YARD WASTE IN STREET PROHIBITED.
   The owner or occupant of any property, or any individual, employee or
contractor of such owner or occupant engaged to provide lawn care or
landscaping services, shall not sweep, rake, blow or otherwise place yard
waste, unless the yard waste is containerized, in the street. If yard waste
that is not containerized is placed in the street, the party responsible for
placement of the yard waste must remove the yard waste from the street or said
party shall be deemed in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34    ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Police
Department.
   (B)   If the provisions of the foregoing sections are not complied with, a
village police officer shall serve personally or by regular first class mail,
written notice upon the owner, lessee, occupant or any person having the
control of the premises to comply with the provisions of the above sections.
Posting a notice of the violation upon the property shall be deemed to be
adequate notice. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails to
containerize or bundle the yard waste within 48 hours after receipt of such
notice or if no owner can be found of such lot, the Police Chief shall cause to
be containerized or bundled and to be removed with the actual cost of such
containerizing or bundling and removal, plus 25% for inspection and other
additional costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by the Village
Police Chief to the Village Treasurer and shall become a lien upon the property
on which such containerized or bundled yard waste were located, and shall be
assessed and collected in the same manner provided for collection of taxes.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 50.35 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All prior ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict with the
subject matter of this subchapter are hereby repealed in their entirety.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 50.99    PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500, plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues, constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 184, passed 8-
12-2009)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and scope
   
51.002   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
51.010   Public sanitary sewer system; declaration of necessity
   
51.011   Unlawful deposition
   
51.012   Unlawful construction
   
51.013   Required connection to available sanitary sewer
   
51.014   Cleanout, abandonment, and filling of private sewage disposal systems
   
51.015   Private treatment and disposal requirements
   
51.016   Additional public health requirements
   
51.017   Public sanitary sewers for platted lands and developments
   
51.018   Connection of undeveloped parcels
Sewer Service Laterals and Connections
   
51.030   Waste discharge prohibited except through approved sewer connection
   
51.031   Connection permit required
   
51.032   Sewer connection permits; connection costs; performance bonds and
insurance
   
51.033   Multiple buildings; separate uses within buildings
   
51.034   Existing sewer service laterals
   
51.035   Construction specifications; cleanouts
   
51.036   Sewer service lateral elevation and location
   
51.037   Floor drains; backwater valve devices
   
51.038   Low sewer service laterals; lifts and risers
   
51.039   Connection specifications
   
51.040   Protection and restoration
   
51.041   Connection to sources of runoff prohibited
   
51.042   Pretreatment of any discharge may be required
   
51.043   Separate and independent connections required
Conditions of Service
   
51.060   Responsibilities and liability for sewer service laterals
   
51.061   Water meters; wastewater meters
   
51.062   Disruption of service
   
51.063   Service inspections
Discharge Prohibited
   
51.080   Discharge prohibited without required approvals, permits, and
treatment
Regulation of Discharges to the POTW
   
51.090   Discharge prohibitions
   
51.091   Pretreatment standards and requirements
   
51.092   Right of revision
   
51.093   POTW’s right to refuse or condition discharge
   
51.094   Most restrictive standards and requirements apply
   
51.095   Dillution prohibited as substitute for treatment
User Permits
   
51.110   User permit required
   
51.111   Determination of user status
   
51.112   Permit application deadlines
   
51.113   Permit application requirements
   
51.114   Permit issuance, denial, or determination that permit not required
   
51.115   Permit conditions
   
51.116   Permit modifications
   
51.117   Permit duration
   
51.118   Permit reissuance
   
51.119   Continuation of expired permits
   
51.120   Permit suspension and revocation
   
51.121   Limitations on permit transfer
   
51.122   Duty to provide information
   
51.123   Permit appeals
   
51.124   Permits not stayed
   
51.125   Permit fees
Reporting and Notice Requirements
   
51.140   Reports by non-domestic users regarding categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements
   
51.141   Reports required for non-domestic users not subject to categorical
pretreatment standards
   
51.142   Notice by user of potential problems
   
51.143   Notice by user of violation of pretreatment standards
Sewer Use and Pretreatment15
   
51.144   Notice by user of changed discharge or change in user status
   
51.145   Notice by user regarding wastes that are otherwise hazardous
   
51.146   Notice by user regarding installation of new pretreatment facilities
   
51.147   Notice of intent
   
51.148   Other reports and notices required by this section or by other
applicable laws and regulations
   
51.149   Requirements applicable to all required reports, notifications, and
applications
   
51.150   Signature and certification requirements
Sampling, Analysis, and Monitoring Requirements
   
51.170   Purpose
   
51.171   Sampling and analytical techniques and procedures
   
51.172   Sampling frequency
   
51.173   Sample types
   
51.174   Sampling methods, equipment, and location
   
51.175   Costs of monitoring, sampling, and analyses
   
51.176   Self-monitoring
   
51.177   Sampling and analyses performed by POTW
   
51.178   Split samples and sample results
   
51.179   Maintenance, repair, and calibration of equipment
   
51.180   Required sampling structures and devices
   
51.181   Determination of flow
Accidental Discharges
   
51.200   General
   
51.201   Designation of person in charge of discharge operations
   
51.202   Description of chemicals stored, used, or manufactured by user; user
discharges; user premises
   
51.203   Segregation of wastewaters requiring pretreatment
   
51.204   Secondary containment requirements
   
51.205   Submission of pollution incident prevention plan
   
51.206   Posting of accidental discharge information
   
51.207   Notice of accidental discharge
   
51.208   Slug control plan
Upset and Additional Affirmative Defenses
   
51.220   Upset
   
51.221   Additional affirmative defenses
Bypass
   
51.240   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or requirements
   
51.241   Bypass prohibited
   
51.242   Required notices
   
51.243   POTW-approved bypass
Confidential Information
   
51.250   Confidential information
Records Retention
   
51.260   Maintenance of records
Management, Supervision, and Control of the POTW
   
51.270   Management, supervision, and control of POTW
   
51.271   Powers of Village Manager
User Pollution Controls
   
51.290   Provision by users of necessary pretreatment facilities
   
51.291   Proper operation and maintenance
   
51.292   Removed substances
   
51.293   Duty to halt or reduce activity
   
51.294   Duty to mitigate
   
51.295   Duty to pretreat prior to discharge to POTW
   
51.296   Implementation of best management practices or best management
practices plan
   
51.297   FOG interceptors; alternate FOG pretreatment technology; sand traps
   
51.298   Dental amalgam; amalgam separators
   
51.299   Additional pretreatment measures
Enforcement
   
51.310   POTW inspection, surveillance, and monitoring authority; right of
entry
   
51.311   Notice of violation
   
51.312   Orders and supplemental enforcement tools
   
51.313   Service of notices of violations, orders, and notices of assessments
   
51.314   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
51.315   Municipal civil infractions
   
51.316   Criminal penalties; imprisonment
   
51.317   Continuing violation
   
51.318   Number of violations
Sewer Use and Pretreatment17
   
51.319   Nuisance
   
51.320   Reimbursement
   
51.321   Review or approval by village
   
51.322   Severance or suspension of sewer and/or water service
   
51.323   Judicial relief
   
51.324   Cumulative remedies
Administrative Review and Appeals
   
51.340   Procedures available
   
51.341   Informal review and reconsideration by the Village Manager
   
51.342   Formal appeal to Wastewater Board of Appeals
   
51.343   Payment of charges, penalties, fines, and other costs or fees
   
51.344   Finality of action
   
51.345   Appeals from determination of Wastewater Board of Appeals
Protection from Damage
   
51.360   Protection from damage
Municipal Liability
   
51.370   Municipal liability
Use of Public Sewers Conditional
   
51.380   Use of public sewers conditional
Industrial Pretreatment Program Fees
   
51.390   Purpose
   
51.391   IPP fees
   
51.392   IPP fee amounts
   
51.393   Surcharges
   
51.394   Billing and collection of IPP fees
Sewer Service Charges, Rates, and Fees
   
51.410   User rates and charges for wastewater treatment service; general
   
51.411   Rates
   
51.412   Rates to provide for expenses; annual rate review
   
51.413   Operating year of system
   
51.414   Revenues to be deposited into Receiving Fund
   
51.415   Transfer of monies
   
51.416   Investments
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   To establish uniform requirements for discharges by all users to
the village publicly owned treatment works (“POTW”), and to enable the village
to comply with applicable state and federal laws as required by the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (also known as the “Clean Water Act”), as amended,
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251, et seq.; the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R.
Part 403); Public Act 451, Part 31 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.3101 et seq. (“Water Resources Protection”); and the rules, R323.2301 et
seq. of the State Administrative Code, as amended, promulgated pursuant to
Public Act 451, Part 31 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3103,
324.3106, and 324.3109.
      (2)   To prevent the discharge of wastewater or pollutants into the POTW
that do not meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements; that could
interfere with the operation of the POTW; that could pass through the POTW into
the receiving waters or the atmosphere, the environment, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW; that could inhibit or disrupt the POTW’s
processing, use, or disposal of sludge; that could cause health or safety
problems for POTW workers; or that could result in a violation of the village’s
NPDES permit or of other applicable laws and regulations.
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the POTW.
      (4)   To regulate the discharge of wastewater and/or pollutants to the
POTW or the environment and to enforce the requirements of this chapter through
the issuance of permits and through other means as provided by this chapter.
      (5)   To authorize and require all inspection, monitoring, reporting and
enforcement activities as necessary to ensure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements and other applicable laws and
regulations.
      (6)   To provide for the equitable distribution and recovery of costs
from users of the POTW sufficient to administer regulatory activities and to
meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and
improvement of the POTW.
      (7)   To promote waste minimization in the areas served by the POTW.
      (8)   To otherwise protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and
the environment.
   (B)   This chapter applies to any person, whether located within the village
or outside the village, that discharges to the POTW.
   (C)   This chapter also applies to any person owning, using, constructing,
or maintaining any private system or facility intended or used for the disposal
of sewage or wastewater within the village or under the village’s jurisdiction.
   (D)   Any other local unit of government that discharges into the POTW (or
that has users or premises that discharge into the POTW) shall, as a condition
to discharge:
      (1)   Adopt, and keep continually in force and up to date, an ordinance
that, except as specifically provided by this division, shall be identical to
the sewer use and pretreatment regulations as provided by this chapter (and as
this chapter is amended from time to time by the village). The ordinance
adopted by the local unit shall expressly designate, empower, and authorize the
village to act as the agent and representative of the local unit for purposes
of administering and enforcing the local unit’s ordinance within the local
unit. This shall include, but shall not be limited to, the power and authority
of the village, as deemed necessary by the village, to immediately and
independently investigate, enforce, and prosecute (administratively or
judicially and civilly or criminally) any violation of the local unit’s
ordinance or of any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued, or made by the Village Manager under this chapter or the
local unit’s ordinance, and to otherwise implement the requirements of this
chapter and the local unit’s ordinance. The only other deviations and
differences permitted between this chapter and the local unit’s ordinance shall
be those that reflect the fact that the local unit’s ordinance is being adopted
as an ordinance by the local unit, and any other deviations or differences that
are approved in advance by the village.
      (2)   Enter into an interjurisdictional agreement with the village that
allows the village, as the designated control authority for the POTW, to
implement and enforce its industrial pretreatment program, including this
chapter, with regard to users throughout the village’s service area and
regardless of jurisdictional or political boundaries.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any wastewater or
pollutant to the POTW or to any storm sewer or natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations.
   (F)   If any user discharges or proposes to discharge wastewaters or
pollutants that are prohibited or limited by this chapter, the village may take
any action as provided by this chapter or other applicable laws or regulations
to assure and require compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms,
phrases, and words shall have the following meanings as used in this chapter.
   ACT. Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act,
as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251, et seq.
   ALTERNATIVE FOG PRETREATMENT TECHNOLOGY OR AFPT. A device to trap, separate,
and hold FOG from wastewater and prevent it from being discharged into the
POTW, other than an outdoor FOG interceptor.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. When used in reference to a non-domestic user, as
follows:
      (1)   If the user is a corporation, a responsible corporate officer.
RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE OFFICER means:
         (a)   A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy- or decision- making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations and
can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to
gather complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements and
where authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager
in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or proprietorship, a general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental entity, the
principal executive officer or ranking elected official having responsibility
for the overall operation of the discharging facility.
      (4)   A duly authorized representative of an individual designated in
divisions (1), (2), or (3) above, if the representative is responsible for the
overall operation of the facilities from which the discharge to the POTW
originates.
         (a)   To be considered DULY AUTHORIZED, the authorization must be made
in writing by an individual designated in divisions (1), (2), or (3) above. The
authorization must specify either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility (such as the position
of plant manager, operator of a well or well field, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for the environmental matters
for the company or entity). The written authorization must be submitted to the
Village Manager prior to or together with any reports to be signed by the
authorized representative.
         (b)   If an authorization under division (4)(a) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company or entity, a new written authorization must be
submitted to the Village Manager prior to or together with any reports to be
signed by the newly authorized representative.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A public sanitary sewer system located in
(or may in the future be located in) a right-of-way easement, highway, street,
or public way which crosses, adjoins, or abuts upon the property and passing
not more than 200 feet at the nearest point from a structure in which sanitary
sewage originates.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE OR BMP. Any practice, program, procedure, control,
technique, or measure (used singularly or in combination), that a user is
required to adopt or implement to control, contain, treat, prevent, or reduce
the discharge of wastewater, pollutants, or other substances to the POTW, as
determined necessary by the Village Manager. BMPs include, but are not limited
to: schedules of activities; pollution treatment practices or devices;
prohibitions of practices; good housekeeping practices; pollution prevention,
minimization, and reduction measures; educational practices and programs;
maintenance procedures; other management programs, practices, or devices;
treatment requirements; notice, reporting, and record-keeping requirements; and
operating procedures and practices to control or contain site runoff, spillage
or leaks, batch discharges, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from product
and raw materials storage. BMPs may be structural, non-structural, or both. In
determining what BMPs will be required of a user in a particular case, the
Village Manager may consider all relevant technological, economic, practical,
and institutional considerations as determined relevant and appropriate by the
Village Manager, consistent with achieving and maintaining compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   BOD5. The quantity of dissolved oxygen used in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees
Celsius, expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams per liter).
   BUILDING DRAIN. See SEWER.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment process or facility needed for compliance with pretreatment
standards or requirements.
   CALENDAR DAY. The full 24-hour period beginning at 12:00 midnight of a day
and ending at 12:00 midnight of the following day.
   CALENDAR MONTH. The full period of calendar days beginning at 12:00 midnight
of the first calendar day of a month and ending at 12:00 midnight of the last
calendar day in that same month.
   CAPITAL CHARGES. Those amounts paid by each user connected to the POTW to
pay the debt service requirements and capital expenditures to enlarge or
improve the wastewater system.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance
with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which
apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended from time to time.
   CATEGORICAL USER. A user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard.
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit into which untreated domestic waste is
discharged and from which the liquid seeps into the surrounding soil or is
otherwise removed.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR COD. A measure of oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as
the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It
does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does
not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as oxygen
consumed (OC) and dichromate oxygen consumed (DOC), respectively.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM LIMITATION OR CSL. A not-to-exceed concentration
determined necessary to protect the POTW that applies to pollutants with the
potential to cause obstruction of flow, fire, explosion, toxic fumes,
structural corrosion, or other adverse conditions.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A pollutant that, as determined by the Village
Manager, is susceptible to effective treatment by the WWSL as designed and
which will not interfere with, or pass through, the POTW and which is otherwise
not incompatible with the treatment processes or in excess of the capacity at
the POTW. The term COMPATIBLE is a relative concept that must be determined on
a case-by-case basis. In determining whether or not a pollutant is compatible
with the POTW, the Village Manager may consider, without limitation, the nature
and qualities of the pollutant, and the concentration, mass, and flow rate at
which the pollutant is (or is proposed to be) discharged. Thus, for example,
even pollutants such as BOD, fats, oils or grease, phosphorous, suspended
solids, and fecal coliform bacteria, which may typically be considered
COMPATIBLE may be determined incompatible by the Village Manager if discharged
in concentrations or flows that would cause interference or pass through or
exceed the POTW’s capacity. Specifically excluded from the definition of
compatible pollutant are “heavy” metals, PCBs, and any pollutants that will
likely contribute or cause operational or sludge disposal problems or
unacceptable discharges to the receiving waters.
   COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE. A schedule of remedial measures or actions that
includes an enforceable sequence of events for the commencement or completion
of actions leading to compliance with a pretreatment standard or requirement.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of individual samples, collected on a flow or
time proportional basis, taken at regular intervals over a specific time period
and combined into a single sample (formed either by continuous sampling or by
mixing discrete samples) representative of the average stream during the
sampling period. For categorical sampling, a composite sample shall consist of
at least four individual samples taken within a 24-hour period.
   COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling purposes only, including both contact
and non-contact cooling water.
   COOLING WATER (CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that may
become contaminated or polluted either through the use of water treatment
chemicals (such as corrosion inhibitors or biocides) or by direct contact with
process materials and/or wastewater.
   COOLING WATER (NON-CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that has
no direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, final product,
or waste, and that does not contain a detectable level of contaminants higher
than that of the intake water (for example, the water discharged from uses such
as air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant
added is heat).
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Berrien County Health Department or its
successor agency.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The maximum discharge of pollutants or flow (expressed in
terms of concentration, mass loading, pounds, gallons, or other unit of
measurement) that shall not be exceeded on any single calendar day. Where daily
maximum limitations are expressed in terms of a concentration, the daily
discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration
derived from all measurements taken that calendar day (except pH and dissolved
oxygen). Where daily maximum limitations are expressed in units of mass, the
daily discharge is the total mass discharged during the calendar day. If a
composite sample is required for a parameter, the determination whether the
daily maximum limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a single
calendar day shall be based on the composite sample collected for that
parameter on that calendar day. If grab samples are required for a parameter,
the determination whether the daily maximum limitation for that parameter has
been exceeded on a calendar day shall be based on the average of all grab
samples collected for that parameter on that calendar day (except pH and
dissolved oxygen). If only one grab sample is collected for a parameter on a
given calendar day, the determination whether the daily maximum limitation for
that parameter has been exceeded for that calendar day shall be based on the
results of that single grab sample.
   DAYS. For purposes of computing a period of time prescribed or allowed by
this chapter, consecutive calendar days.
   DEWATERING. The temporary discharge of groundwater and/or surface water
associated with a construction project requiring the need to maintain below-
grade excavation free from surface or subsurface infiltration of water.
   DILUTE. To weaken, thin down, or reduce the concentration of pollutants in
wastewater.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of waste, wastewater, effluent, or pollutants
into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether directly (such
as through an approved sewer connection or other approved discharge point as
authorized by this chapter) or indirectly (including, but not limited to,
sources such as inflow and infiltration). Discharge includes the introduction
of waste, wastewater, effluent, or pollutants into the POTW by any means or
method of conveyance, including, but not limited to the following: pipes;
conduits; pumping stations; ditches; tank trucks; the ground through defective
pipes, pipe joints, or walls; roof leaders; cellar, yard, or area drains;
foundation drains; drains from springs or wetlands; manhole covers; crossover
pipes from storm sewers; catch basins; storm sewers; surface runoff; street
wash waters; or other drainage.
   DOMESTIC FOOD WASTE.
      (1)   Garbage generated by personal, non-commercial activities typically
associated with preparing meals in a kitchen in a residential dwelling, such as
meat, poultry, fish, vegetable, fruit, grain, or dairy wastes generated by the
storage, preparation, cooking, serving, dispensing, or canning of household
food for personal use, as determined by the Village Manager.
      (2)   Composed of putrescible raw or cooked organic matter and its
natural or added moisture content; it does not include food packaging materials
or food containers (e.g., paper, metal, plastic, glass, etc.) or other non-food
wastes or other trash associated with the domestic food waste
   DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. Liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank,
cesspool, portable toilet, type III marine sanitation device, or similar
storage or treatment works that receives only domestic waste. Domestic septage
does not include liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank, cesspool,
or similar facility that receives either commercial wastewater or industrial
wastewater and does not include grease removed from a grease interceptor,
grease trap, or other appurtenance used to retain grease or other fatty
substances contained in restaurant waste.
   DOMESTIC TREATMENT PLANT SEPTAGE. Biosolids generated during the treatment
of domestic waste in a treatment works and transported to a receiving facility
or managed in accordance with a residuals management program approved by EGLE.
   DOMESTIC USER. A user that discharges only segregated normal strength
domestic waste into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC WASTE OR DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater (or water- or liquid-
carried waste) of human origin generated by personal activities from toilet,
kitchen, laundry, or bathing facilities, or by other similar facilities used
for household or residential dwelling purposes (SANITARY SEWAGE). Domestic
waste shall not include any waste resulting from industrial or commercial
processes, including, without limitation, any hazardous or toxic pollutants.
Wastes that emanate from sources other than residential dwelling units may be
considered domestic wastes only if they are of the same nature and strength and
have the same flow rate characteristics as wastes that emanate from residential
dwelling units, as determined by the Village Manager. Further, domestic waste
shall not include any inflow or drainage waters (such as surface waters,
surface water runoff, storm water, or groundwater) entering a public sanitary
sewer from sources including, but not limited to, building downspouts; roof
leaders; roof drains; cellar, yard, and area drains; foundation and footing
drains; sump pump discharges; cooling water discharges; drains from springs and
swampy areas; manhole covers; cross connections from storm sewers; catch
basins; street wash waters; or other drainage. The discharge of such unpolluted
waters to the public sewer is prohibited as provided by this chapter.
   DWELLING (RESIDENTIAL DWELLING). Any structure designed for habitation,
including but not limited to houses, mobile homes, apartment buildings,
condominiums, and townhouses where each dwelling unit contains, at a minimum,
sleeping facilities, a toilet, a bath or shower, and a kitchen.
   EFFLUENT. Wastewater or other liquid, partially or completely treated,
flowing from a reservoir, basin treatment process, treatment plant, disposal
facility, or toilet device.
   EGLE. The Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (or
any successor agency of EGLE). EGLE was formerly known as the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality or MDEQ.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXCESSIVE. At such a flow, rate, magnitude or amount that, in the judgment
of the Village Manager, it may cause damage to any facility or the POTW; may be
harmful to the wastewater treatment processes; may adversely affect the
management or operation of the POTW or POTW sludge management or disposal; may
cause pass through or interference; may violate any pretreatment standard or
requirement; may adversely affect the quality of the receiving waters or the
ambient air quality; may endanger worker health and safety; may constitute a
public nuisance; may be inconsistent with the requirements, purposes, or
objectives of this chapter; or may otherwise adversely impact the public
health, safety, or welfare or the environment.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a NEW SOURCE as defined
by this chapter.
   FATS OR FOG. Fats, oil, or grease consisting of any hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils, or any other non-volatile material of animal,
vegetable, or mineral origin that is extractable by solvents in accordance with
standard methods.
   FLOW-PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of
equal volume taken at equal intervals of flow with or without consideration of
the time between individual samples, as required and determined appropriate by
the Village Manager.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT SEPTAGE. Material pumped from a grease interceptor,
grease trap, or other appurtenance used to retain grease or other fatty
substances contained in restaurant wastes and which is blended into a uniform
mixture, consisting of not more than one part of that restaurant-derived
material per three parts of domestic septage, prior to land application or
disposed of at a receiving facility.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT OR FSE. Any premises where, or mobile food
service unit from which, food or beverages are prepared and served or consumed,
whether fixed or mobile, with or without charge, and whether on or off the
premises. FSEs shall include, but are not limited to, restaurants, hotels,
taverns, bars, rest homes, schools, factories, institutions, camps, grocery
stores with on-site food preparation, and ice cream parlors. The following
shall not be subject to the interceptor/APT requirements under §
51.297 except as otherwise determined necessary by the Village Manager to
prevent adverse impacts on the POTW or to otherwise meet the purposes and
objectives of this chapter:
      (1)   A private residential dwelling unit where the food is prepared and
served or consumed solely by the occupants of the dwelling unit;
      (2)   A premises where the only food prepared and served or consumed is
dispensed from automatic vending machines;
      (3)   A temporary food service establishment meaning an FSE operating at
a fixed location for not more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a
single event or celebration; or
      (4)   Mobile food service units operating at fixed or variable locations;
provided that FOG and food debris generated by a temporary food service
establishment or mobile food service unit shall not be discharged to the POTW
at any location except at a premises that does comply with the interceptor/APT
requirements under §
51.297, and in no case shall any such FOG be discharged to a catch basin,
manhole, storm sewer, natural outlet, surface water, groundwater, or be
disposed of on the ground.
   FOOTING DRAIN. See SEWER.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes of human origin from the residential or commercial
storage, preparation, cooking, serving, dispensing, canning, or packaging of
food, or from the commercial growing, handling, storage, processing, or sale of
produce or other edible products, as determined by the Village Manager. GARBAGE
is composed of putrescible raw or cooked organic matter and its natural or
added moisture content; it does not include food packaging materials or food
containers (e.g., paper, metal, plastic, glass, etc.) or other non-food wastes
or other trash associated with food or produce waste.
   GENERAL USER PERMIT. A permit issued to any user other than a significant
industrial user as provided by this chapter to control discharges to the POTW
and to ensure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   GOOD UTILITY PRACTICES. Any of the practices, methods, and acts engaged in
or approved by a significant portion of comparable publicly owned treatment
works facilities during the relevant time period, or other practices, methods
and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light of the facts
known at the time the decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish
the desired result consistent with reliability; safety; expedition; applicable
local, state, and federal laws and regulations; and at reasonable cost; the
term GOOD UTILITY PRACTICES is not intended to be limited to the optimum
practices, methods, or acts to the exclusion of all others, but rather to
constitute a spectrum of acceptable practices, methods, or acts generally
accepted by comparable publicly owned treatment works facilities.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample that is taken from a wastestream on a one-
time basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of
time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GREASE TRAP OR GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A device meant to receive the drainage
from fixtures or equipment with FOG-laden waste from a food service
establishment or other non-domestic user’s premises, and may also be described
as a device for separating and retaining FOG, waterborne greases, and grease
complexes from wastewater prior to the wastewater exiting the device and
entering the public sewer. Grease traps are generally smaller devices with
lower flow rates and are located inside (often directly under a sink in FSEs),
while grease interceptors are generally larger devices with higher flow rates
located outdoors and underground.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance discharged or proposed to be discharged into
the POTW, that:
      (1)   If otherwise disposed of would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R.
Part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the State Hazardous Waste
Management Act (Public Act 451, Part 111 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11101 et seq.); or
      (2)   Is otherwise a waste or a combination of waste and other discarded
material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material that
because of its quantity, quality, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible illness or serious
incapacitating but reversible illness, or may pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment if improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed, as determined by the
Village Manager.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant
and/or contains substances which are not amenable to treatment, or wastes which
may adversely affect the treatment process, the effluent, sludge disposal
practices, or cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit, as determined by the
Village Manager.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-domestic user that, by any means, contributes,
causes, or permits the contribution, introduction, or discharge of wastewater
or pollutants into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether
directly or indirectly.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the POTW from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls. Infiltration does not include, and is distinguished from,
INFLOW.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the POTW from sources such as, but not limited
to, building downspouts; roof leaders; cellar, yard, and area drains;
foundation and footing drains; sump pumps; cooling water (non-contact)
discharges; drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross
connections from storm sewers; catch basins; stormwaters; surface runoff;
street wash waters; or drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished
from, INFILTRATION.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum concentration or other measure of
pollutant magnitude of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in
time (independent of the flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the
concentration or other measure of pollutant magnitude determined by analysis of
any grab sample, composite sample, or discrete portion of a composite sample
exceeds the instantaneous maximum limit, the instantaneous maximum limit shall
be deemed to have been violated.
   INSTANTANEOUS MINIMUM LIMIT. The lowest measure of pollutant magnitude of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in time (independent of the
flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the concentration or other
pollutant magnitude determined by analysis of any grab sample, composite
sample, or discrete portion of a composite sample is below the specified
instantaneous minimum limit, the instantaneous minimum limit shall be deemed to
have been violated.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources either:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; or
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations); Section 405 of the Clean Water Act,
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred
to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act.
   LATERAL SEWER. See SEWER.
   LBS/DAY. Pounds per day.
   LEACHATE. Any liquid that has percolated through or out of some substance
and that liquid has been polluted or made toxic by percolating through that
substance such as rubbish; a solution obtained by leaching.
   LIQUID INDUSTRIAL BY-PRODUCT. Any material that is produced by, is incident
to, or results from industrial, commercial, or governmental activity, or any
other activity or enterprise, that is determined to be liquid by Method 9095
(paint filter liquids test) as described in “Test methods for evaluating solid
wastes, physical/chemical methods,” United States Environmental Protection
Agency Publication No. SW-846, and that is discarded. Liquid industrial by-
product does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Hazardous waste regulated and required to be manifested under
Public Act 451, Part 111 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et
seq;
      (2)   Septage waste regulated under Public Act 451, Part 117 of 1994,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq., as amended;
      (3)   Medical waste regulated under Part 138 of the Public Health Code,
Public Act 368 of 1978 as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.13801 to 333.13832;
      (4)   A discharge to the waters of the state in accordance with a permit,
order, or rule under Public Act 451, Part 31 of 1994, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq;
      (5)   A liquid generated by a household;
      (6)   A liquid regulated under Public Act 239 of 1982, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 287.651 to 287.683; or
      (7)   Material managed in accordance with Public Act 451, Part 121 of
1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.12101 et seq.
   LOCAL LIMIT. A specific enforceable prohibition, standard, or requirement
(numerical or non-numerical) on discharges by non-domestic users established by
the Village Manager to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter and to
comply with applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   MAC. The Michigan Administrative Code.
   MAHL OR MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE HEADWORKS LOADING. The estimated maximum influent
pollutant loads from all influent sources (such as domestic and non-domestic
users and septage) that can be received at the POTW’s headworks without causing
pass through or interference and consistent with applicable laws and
regulations, as determined pursuant to the WWSL’s most recent MAHL study.
   MAIL OR MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE INDUSTRIAL LOADING. The estimated maximum influent
pollutant loads from non-domestic users (including permitted industrial users
and other controlled sources) that can be received at the POTW’s headworks
without causing pass through or interference and consistent with applicable
laws and regulations, as determined pursuant to the WWSL’s most recent MAHL
study.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, or dialysis
wastes, and includes any medical or infectious wastes as defined by the EGLE.
   MG/L. Milligrams per liter.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE UNIT. Any motorized vehicle (or towed trailer) in or
from which food or beverages are prepared and served or consumed, with or
without charge. The term includes vehicles commonly referred to as food trucks
or food trailers.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of the concentrations (or mass loadings, expressed
in terms of pounds per day, or such other unit of measurement) of a pollutant
divided by the number of samples taken during a calendar month. The
concentrations (or loadings) that are added are single numbers for single
calendar days for all days during the calendar month for which analyses are
obtained (whether by the user or the POTW), but the concentrations (or
loadings) may be based upon a sample or samples taken over either all or part
of that day and upon single or multiple analyses for that day, as determined by
the Village Manager. If no samples are taken during particular months because
less than monthly sampling is required for a pollutant parameter (e.g., a
specified quarterly monitoring period), the monthly average for each month
within the specified monitoring period shall be deemed to be the sum of
concentrations (or loadings) for the monitoring period divided by number of
samples taken during the monitoring period.
   NAICS OR NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM. The system of
classification for business establishments adopted by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget, as amended.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and
(c) of the Act which applies to industrial users and includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any naturally formed outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other
source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (b) or (c), above, but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment. Commencement of construction
of a new source shall be determined in a manner consistent with 40 C.F.R. §
403.3(m)(3).
   NG/L. Nanograms per liter.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. See COOLING WATER (NON-CONTACT).
   NON-DOMESTIC USER. Any user other than a domestic user (i.e., any user that
discharges anything other than segregated normal strength domestic waste into
the POTW). The determination of whether or not a user is a NON-DOMESTIC USER
shall be made by the Village Manager at the Village Manager’s sole discretion
as determined necessary by the Village Manager to achieve the purposes and
objectives of this chapter. Any user that has the reasonable potential, as
determined by the Village Manager, to discharge any waste other than normal
strength domestic waste into the POTW, may be deemed a non-domestic user for
purposes of this chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, any other local unit of
government that contributes, or causes or permits the contribution or
introduction of wastewater or pollutants into the POTW, whether intentional or
unintentional, and whether direct or indirect, shall be considered to be a non-
domestic user.
   NON-DOMESTIC USER PERMIT. A permit issued to a significant industrial user,
or to such other user as determined appropriate by the Village Manager, as
provided by this chapter to control discharges to the POTW and to ensure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   NON-DOMESTIC WASTE OR NON-DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Any wastewater (or water or
liquid-carried waste) other than domestic waste. The determination of whether
or not a waste is a NON-DOMESTIC WASTE shall be made by Village Manager at the
Village Manager’s sole discretion as determined necessary by the Village
Manager to achieve the purposes and objectives of this chapter. Any waste that
has the reasonable potential, as determined by the Village Manager, to be not
entirely composed of normal strength domestic waste may be deemed non-domestic
waste for purposes of this chapter.
   NORMAL STRENGTH. With regard to wastewater, wastewater for which the
concentrations of the following pollutants in the wastewater are all at or
below the following concentrations: BOD, 200 mg/l; TSS, 200 mg/l; Ammonia
(NH3), 20 mg/l; and Phosphorus, 6 mg/l. In addition, to be considered normal
strength, the wastewater must have a pH between 6.5 and 8.5, must not exceed
any local limit, and must not contain a level of any constituents (either
singly or in combination) that might interfere with POTW treatment processes or
cause pass through. The determination of whether or not wastewater or the
concentration of a particular pollutant concentration is NORMAL STRENGTH shall
be made by the Village Manager based on such factors (including, but not
limited to, the factors provided by this definition) as determined necessary
and appropriate by the Village Manager to achieve the purposes and objectives
of this chapter.
   NPDES PERMIT. A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.
   OBSTRUCTION. Anything of whatever nature that impedes the flow of wastewater
from the point of origination to the trunk line and anywhere else within the
POTW. This includes, but is not limited to, objects, sewage, garbage, trash,
FOG, tree roots, rocks, and debris of any type.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, AND IMPROVEMENT. All work,
materials, equipment, utilities, and other efforts required to operate and
maintain the POTW consistent, at a minimum, with insuring adequate treatment of
wastewater to produce an effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other
applicable state and federal regulations, and includes the cost of repair,
replacement, and improvement, in whole or in part.
   OUTFALL. The point (or points) of discharge by a user to the POTW, approved
by the Village Manager and specified in a user permit.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the freehold of a premises or lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm, or corporation in control of
a premises.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state (or
waters of the United States) in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit or of any requirement
of applicable local, state, or federal laws and regulations (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation), or otherwise
detrimentally impacts the receiving stream.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   PFAS. Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
   PFOA. Perfluorooctane acid.
   PFOS. Perfluorooctane sulfonate.
   PH. The quantitative measure of acidity or alkalinity of a solution, defined
as the negative logarithm (base 10) of the concentration of hydronium ions in
equivalents/liter.
   PHOSPHORUS. The total phosphorus content of a sample including all of the
orthophosphates and condensed phosphates, both soluble and insoluble, and
organic and inorganic species, and referred to in Standard Methods as total
phosphorus.
   PLUMBING CODE. The Michigan State Plumbing Code. The Plumbing Code is
intended to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health,
property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation, and
maintenance or use of plumbing equipment and systems. Where there are
differences between the provisions or requirements of the Plumbing Code and the
provisions or requirements of this chapter or of other applicable regulations
or laws, the most restrictive of those provisions or requirements shall
control, as determined by the Village Manager.
   POLLUTANT. Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any material that is discharged into water or other liquid,
including, but not limited to, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, trash, biosolids, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes,
chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and
agricultural waste.
      (2)   Properties of materials or characteristics of wastewater,
including, but not limited to, pH, heat, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD,
toxicity, and odor.
      (3)   Substances regulated by categorical standards.
      (4)   Substances discharged to the POTW that are required to be monitored
by a user under this chapter, that are limited in the POTW’s NPDES permit, or
that are required to be identified in the POTW’s application for an NPDES
permit.
      (5)   Substances for which control measures on users are necessary to
avoid restricting the POTW’s residuals management program; to avoid operational
problems at the POTW; or to avoid POTW worker health and safety problems.
   POLLUTION. The alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and
radiological integrity of water.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The complete sewage disposal,
transportation and treatment system of the village as defined by the Act and
this chapter, including the WWSL, and any devices, processes and systems used
in the storage, treatment, recycling or reclamation of wastewater, sewage or
sludge, as well as all sewers, pipes and other conveyances used to collect or
convey wastewater or sewage to the WWSL (including temporary connections, if
any, approved by the Village Manager), as now or hereafter added to, extended
or improved. The term POTW shall also include any wastewater collection
facilities or sewers outside the village that convey wastewaters to the POTW
from persons who are, by contract or agreement with the village, users of the
POTW. References in this chapter to approvals, determinations, reviews, etc.,
“by the POTW” shall mean by the village, the Village Manager, or the village’s
and/or the Village Manager’s designees and authorized representatives. The term
POTW may also be used to refer to the village as the municipality that has
jurisdiction over the discharges to, and discharges from, the WWSL and its
designated representatives, as appropriate to the context in which the term is
used.
   PREMISES. A lot, tract, parcel, or plot of land, or a building or structure,
or any part thereof, having any connection, directly or indirectly, to the
POTW, or from which there is a discharge to the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination or
removal of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties
in wastewater before or instead of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical, or biological processes; process changes; or other means,
except for the use of dilution (unless expressly authorized by any applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement and the Village Manager) and except for
the use of other means prohibited by applicable local, state, or federal laws
or regulations. Appropriate pretreatment technology includes control equipment,
such as equalization tanks or facilities, for protection against surges or slug
loadings or discharges that might otherwise interfere with or be incompatible
with the POTW, subject to applicable requirements of local, state, and federal
laws and regulations.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement imposed
on a user related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act or Public Act
451, Part 31 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., including
general and specific prohibitive discharge limits and local limits established
in this chapter pursuant to R323.2303 of the State Administrative Code, and
categorical standards, as amended from time to time.
   PRIVATE SEWER. See SEWER.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, cesspool or similar
device, or part thereof, not connected to a public sewer.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water that, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.
   PUBLIC SEWER. See SEWER.
   REASONABLE POTENTIAL. As used in this chapter, a determination of REASONABLE
POTENTIAL by the Village Manager means a determination made by the Village
Manager that a certain condition, state, result, or circumstance exists, or is
likely to exist, based upon the quantitative or qualitative factors or
information deemed by the Village Manager to be relevant and appropriate to the
determination, consistent with the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
   RELEASE. To spill, leak, dump, pump, dispose, deposit, inject, place, or
abandon.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances that are necessary to maintain the capacity or
performance during the service life of the system for which the system was
designed or constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any structure designed for habitation, including but
not limited to houses, mobile homes, apartment buildings, condominiums, and
townhouses where each dwelling unit contains, at a minimum, sleeping
facilities, a toilet, a bath or shower, and a kitchen.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. See DOMESTIC WASTE.
   SANITARY SEWER. See SEWER.
   SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT SEPTAGE. Sanitary sewage or cleanout residue removed
from a separate sanitary sewer collection system that is not land applied and
that is transported by a vehicle licensed under Public Act 451, Part 117 of
1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11701 et seq. (SEPTAGE WASTE SERVICERS) elsewhere within the same system or
to a receiving facility that is approved by EGLE.
   SEPTAGE WASTE. The fluid mixture of untreated and partially treated sewage
solids, liquids, and sludge of human or domestic origin which is removed from a
wastewater system. Septage waste consists only of food establishment septage,
domestic septage, domestic treatment plant septage, or sanitary sewer cleanout
septage, or any combination of these.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight receptacle receiving sewage and having an inlet
and outlet designed to permit the separation of suspended solids from sewage
and to permit such retained solids to undergo decomposition therein.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, or damage
to treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean an
economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. See WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube, drain, conduit, or conveyance that carries,
transports, or conveys wastewater or drainage water. Other terms used in this
chapter related to sewers are defined as follows:
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system that receives the discharge from sanitary waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of a building and conveys the discharge to a
sewer service lateral (BUILDING SEWER). The building drain shall be deemed to
extend from within the walls of a building to a point five feet outside the
outer face of the exterior building wall. (See diagram of a typical sewer
service connection in § 51.060(H).)
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER. See SEWER SERVICE LATERAL.
      (3)   COLLECTOR SEWER (OR TRUNK SEWER). A public sewer that commonly
connects the sewer main to an interceptor sewer.
      (4)   COMMON SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights.
      (5)   FOOTING DRAIN. A private pipe or conduit which is placed around the
perimeter of a building foundation and which intentionally admits groundwater.
      (6)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A public sewer that receives flow from a
collector sewer, sewer main, and/or a sewer service lateral and such flow to a
point for treatment or disposal.
      (7)   PRIVATE SEWER. Any sewer service line, equipment, or facilities for
the disposal of wastewater installed or located on any premises that transport
wastewater from the premises to the public sewer, such as a building drain and
private sewer service lateral. (See diagram of a typical sewer service
connection in §
51.060(H).)
      (8)   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer that is controlled by a governmental
agency, public utility, or other public entity, such as a sewer main or
collector sewer.
      (9)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, and to which storm, surface and groundwaters are not
intentionally admitted, and which may include pumping stations, metering
stations, and other appurtenances.
      (10)   SEWER MAIN. A public sewer which is designed to receive a sewer
service lateral and is that portion of the common public sewer system located
under the street or within the public right-of-way or public easement and that
collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to a collector sewer,
an interceptor sewer or to the WWSL.
      (11)   SEWER SERVICE LATERAL (OR BUILDING SEWER). The portion of the
drainage system that extends from the end of the building drain (at a point
five feet outside the outer face of the exterior building wall) and conveys the
discharge to a public sewer main or other approved point of disposal. The
portion of a sewer service lateral that extends from the building drain to the
property line or public right-of-way easement is referred to as the PRIVATE
SEWER SERVICE LATERAL. The portion of a sewer service lateral from the property
line or public right-of-way easement to the public sewer main is referred to as
the PUBLIC SEWER SERVICE LATERAL. (See diagram of a sewer service connection in
§
51.060(H).)
      (12)   SEWER SYSTEM. A group of interacting sewers functioning as a whole
that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (13)   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN. A sewer or drain, either natural or
artificial, intended to carry stormwater, snowmelt, and surface runoff and
drainage, but not wastewater.
      (14)   WYE BRANCH. A connection to the sewer that is made at an angle
similar to a WYE so that a sewer cleaning rod will not come into the sewer at a
right angle and penetrate the far side, but will travel down the course of the
sewer.
   SEWER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES. The rates, fees, and charges for use of the
POTW as established from time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
Such rates, fees and charges include debt service charges required to retire
debts resulting from capital or other costs incurred to contract, improve,
expand, repair, maintain, or replace a part of the POTW and sufficient and
proportionate use charges required of all users for the cost of POTW operation,
maintenance, repair, replacement, and improvement. Surcharges and other rates
and fees may also be charged for wastes in amounts or concentrations regarding
extra treatment services or costs or as required for exceeding established
limits.
   SEWER SERVICE LATERAL. See SEWER for definitions of private and public sewer
services laterals.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIC OR STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER OR SIU. Any user:
      (1)   Subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (2)   Any other user that:
         (a)   Discharges to the POTW an average of 25,000 gallons per day or
more of process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blow-down wastewater); or
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the WWSL; or
         (c)   Is otherwise designated by the Village Manager as a significant
industrial user on the basis that the user has a reasonable potential to
adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any pretreatment
standard or requirement, or because the Village Manager determines that a non-
domestic user permit for the user’s discharge is required to meet the purposes
and objectives of this chapter.
      (3)   The Village Manager may determine that a user that meets the
criteria of divisions (2)(a) or (2)(b) of this definition above is not
currently an SIU if the Village Manager finds that the user has no reasonable
potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that a non-domestic user permit is not
required to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter. A determination
that a user is not an SIU (or that a permit is therefore not required) shall
not be binding and may be reversed by the Village Manager at any time based on
changed circumstances, new information, or as otherwise determined necessary by
the Village Manager to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
   SLUDGE. Accumulated solid material separated from liquid waste as a result
of the wastewater treatment process.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   SLUG LOADING. Any slug discharge that has a reasonable potential to cause
damage to the POTW; be harmful to the wastewater treatment processes; adversely
affect the management or operation of the POTW or POTW sludge management or
disposal; cause pass through or interference or otherwise cause the POTW to
violate its NPDES permit; violate any pretreatment standard or requirement as
provided by this chapter or by any permit or order issued under this chapter;
adversely affect the quality of the receiving waters or the ambient air
quality; endanger worker health and safety; constitute a public nuisance; or
otherwise adversely impact the public health, safety, or welfare or the
environment.
   STATE. The State of Michigan. The term shall include, where applicable, any
administrative agency of the state having jurisdiction in the subject matter of
this chapter, including (but not limited to) the EGLE.
   STORMWATER. Any flow (such as stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, and
surface runoff and drainage, but excluding wastewater) occurring during or
following, and resulting from, any form of natural precipitation, and is that
portion of flow in excess of that which infiltrates into the soil of the
drainage area.
   STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building in which toilet,
kitchen, laundry, bathing, or other facilities which generate water-carried
sanitary sewage are used or are available for use for household, commercial,
industrial, or other purposes.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charges made by the Village Manager assessed to
cover the costs to the village to treat wastewater containing pollutants in
excess of specified concentrations, loadings, or other applicable limits, or
for other purposes specified by this chapter.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) OR TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids that float on
the surface of, or are suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
which can be removed by laboratory filtering or other standard methods.
   TIME-PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of
equal volume taken at equal intervals of time, without consideration of the
volume or rate of flow, as required and determined appropriate by the Village
Manager.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants that is or can
potentially be harmful to the public health, the POTW, or the environment,
including, without limitation, those listed in 40 C.F.R. § 401.15 as toxic
under the provisions of the Clean Water Act, or listed in the Critical
Materials Register promulgated by the EGLE, or as provided by local, state, or
federal laws, rules, or regulations.
   TRASH. Any solid waste, refuse, rubbish, or junk (other than garbage),
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Animal entrails or tissues, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, whole
blood, feathers;
      (2)   Ashes, cinders, sand, cement, spent lime, stone or marble dust,
wood, metal, plastic, glass, cloth, rubber, leather, wire, rope, string,
fibers, straw, shavings, sweepings, spent grains, spent hops, tar, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes or tumbling and deburring stones;
      (3)   Newspapers, magazines, books, catalogs, or wastepaper;
      (4)   Rags, clothing, disposable diapers, disposable wipes (including,
but not limited to, baby wipes, personal hygiene wipes, and disinfecting
wipes), and bedding;
      (5)   Containers, wrappings, cans, bottles, jars, glass crockery, bags,
and sacks; or paper, plastic, wood, or metal cartons, crates, boxes, or
barrels;
      (6)   Building construction and/or demolition debris (or parts or pieces
thereof) such as waste materials from interior and exterior building
construction, remodeling, and repair, including, but not limited to, drywall,
plywood, sheetrock, and paneling, brick, shingles, concrete, lumber, and other
building materials; floor coverings; carpeting; wallpaper; windows or window
coverings; doors; cabinets; bathroom and kitchen fixtures; and asbestos;
      (7)   Machinery, equipment, vehicles, tires, appliances, plumbing
fixtures, furniture, batteries, or pieces or parts thereof;
      (8)   Lawn cuttings, grass clippings, tree trimmings, branches, sticks,
leaves, clippings from shrubs, bushes, or hedges, roots, stumps, plants, weeds
and similar lawn, garden, or landscaping wastes or materials; and
      (9)   Any other article, material, substance, or pieces or parts thereof
customarily considered (or typically disposed of as) refuse, rubbish, or junk,
as determined by the Village Manager.
   TRUCKED OR HAULED WASTE OR POLLUTANTS. Any waste or wastewater proposed to
be discharged to the POTW from a mobile source, including, without limitation,
holding tank waste and septage waste.
   UG/L. Micrograms per liter.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water in its natural state, or water which, after use for
any purpose, is not substantially changed as to chemical or biochemical
qualities or water that would otherwise not be benefitted by discharge to the
POTW. The Village Manager shall determine whether water is unpolluted water.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or
careless or improper operation.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution,
introduction, or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, whether intentional or
unintentional, and whether directly or indirectly. User includes any local unit
of government other than the village that discharges to the POTW, as well as
the individual users located within such other local unit of government.
   USER PERMIT. A non-domestic user permit or a general user permit.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Three Oaks, Berrien County, Michigan, or the
village’s designees and authorized representatives.
   VILLAGE CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Village of Three Oaks Code of Ordinances.
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The Village Manager and/or the Village Manager’s designees
and authorized representatives.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic waste from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and
institutions (including, without limitation, contaminated groundwater, landfill
leachate, and liquid industrial byproducts), whether treated or untreated, that
is contributed, introduced, or discharged into the POTW. The term includes any
water that has in any way been used and degraded or physically or chemically
altered.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon the State of Michigan or any
portion thereof, and as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. All waters as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 122.2 and
as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WWSL OR WASTEWATER TREATMENT STABILIZATION LAGOON FACILITY. The portion of
the village’s POTW that is designed to provide treatment, including recycling
or reclamation, of wastewater, and that is commonly referred to as a POTW
wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED ****
§ 51.010 PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM; DECLARATION OF NECESSITY.
   A public sanitary sewer system is essential to the health, safety, and
welfare of the people of the village. Privies, privy vaults, septic tanks,
cesspools, or other similar private sewage disposal systems are subject to
failure due to soil conditions or other reasons. Failure or potential failure
of private sewage disposal systems poses a threat to the public health, safety,
and welfare; presents a potential for ill health, transmission of disease,
mortality, and economic blight; and constitutes a threat to the quality of
surface and subsurface waters of the state. The connection to available public
sanitary sewer systems at the earliest, reasonable date is a matter for the
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare and is necessary in the
public interest which is declared as a matter of legislative determination.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.011 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited, any human or animal excrement, garbage, trash, pollutants, or other
objectionable waste, upon or below, the surface of public or private property
within the jurisdiction of the village, except by disposing of such waste in
accordance with applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations. This
section shall not apply to the making or use of compost or fertilizer by a
person on the person’s property if done in compliance with all laws,
ordinances, and regulations as part of a lawful business or domestic
agricultural activity which poses no substantial threat to public health,
safety, or welfare and is not a common-law nuisance.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.012 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, and unless specifically approved by the
County Health Department, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other private facility intended
or used for disposal of wastewater within the village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.013 REQUIRED CONNECTION TO AVAILABLE SANITARY SEWER.
   The owner of any house, structure, building, property, or premises used for
human occupancy, employment, transaction of business, recreation, or other
purposes that is situated within the village for which there is an AVAILABLE
PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER (as that term is defined in § 51.001) shall install, at
the owner’s sole expense, suitable toilet and plumbing facilities therein and
shall connect such facilities directly with public sanitary sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days of written notice by the
village to do so. This section shall not apply to any structure, property, or
premises served by a privately constructed, owned, operated, and continuously
and properly maintained wastewater sewer and wastewater treatment facility
which discharges directly to a natural outlet in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.014 CLEANOUT, ABANDONMENT, AND FILLING OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Upon connection to the public sanitary sewer, it shall be the property
owner’s responsibility to contact the County Health Department for the proper
regulations and procedures to clean out, abandon, and fill any existing private
sewage disposal system, and the owner shall thereupon follow such regulations
and procedures at the owner’s sole expense. Once a premises that was previously
served by a private sewage disposal system has been connected to the public
sanitary system, disconnection thereafter from the public sanitary system is
prohibited.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.015 PRIVATE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   If a public sanitary sewer is not available to a property as provided by §
51.013, the building sewers of all structures in which sanitary sewage
originates on the property shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all requirements of this section, the County Health
Department regulations, and any other applicable village or state laws and
regulations.
   (A)   Before commencement of a private sewage disposal system, the property
owner shall first apply to the County Health Department for a soil evaluation
test. If the soil evaluation test shows positive results, the property owner
shall then apply to the County Health Department for a permit for installation
for the proposed sewage system. The application shall include plans,
specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the County Health
Department. All fees for the soil evaluation test and the permit for
installation shall be fully paid by the property owner to the County Health
Department when and in the amounts specified by the County Health Department.
   (B)   A permit shall not be issued for any private wastewater disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities if the area of the lot
is less than determined necessary by the village, the County Health Department,
or the state, as applicable.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become final
and effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
County Health Department and the village. The County Health Department shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the County Health Department and the
village when the work is ready for final inspection, and before covering any
underground portions. Any person receiving a permit for a private sewage
disposal system from the County Health Department shall provide the village
with copies of the final approved inspection report issued by the County Health
Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations and requirements of the
village, the County Health Department, and the state, as applicable.
   (E)   No septic tank, cesspool, subsurface disposal facility, or other
private sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to discharge to any public
sewer or natural outlet.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village. The
facilities shall be subject to inspection by the village, the County Health
Department, and other applicable governmental agencies.
   (G)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
51.013, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer and the private
system shall be abandoned, cleaned out, and filled in compliance with this
chapter and §
51.014.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.016 ADDITIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the village, the County Health Department,
the Michigan Department of Public Health, or any other governmental agency.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.017 PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS FOR PLATTED LANDS AND DEVELOPMENTS.
   The owner of any land platted or otherwise developed for separate users in
the village shall cause a public sanitary sewer to be constructed in the plat
or land. Construction of such sewer and payment of all necessary fees shall be
the responsibility of the property owner. This sewer shall be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the village. The owner
shall apply to connect each of these plat sewers to the existing public
sanitary sewer of the district. Such application shall be reviewed and, if
acceptable, approved by the village and the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.018 CONNECTION OF UNDEVELOPED PARCELS.
   Owners of undeveloped parcels located within the village who requested that
sanitary sewer service not be extended to the undeveloped parcel at the time of
construction may at a future date request that the parcel be serviced by the
sanitary sewer. The owner of the parcel shall apply to connect to the existing
public sanitary sewer of the village. Such application shall be reviewed and,
if acceptable, approved by the village and the Village Engineer. The owner of
the parcel shall be responsible for payment of all costs related to
construction of the building sanitary drain, building sanitary sewer, and
sanitary sewer, including, but not limited to, actual construction costs;
backfill, restoration, and replacement costs; and all applicable permit,
inspection, and hookup fees. Construction and connection of the service shall
be in accordance with appropriate construction standards acceptable to the
village. All conditions and requirements of this chapter shall be satisfied by
the owner before the village will allow connection to the system.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** SEWER SERVICE LATERALS AND CONNECTIONS ****
§ 51.030 WASTE DISCHARGE PROHIBITED EXCEPT THROUGH APPROVED SEWER CONNECTION.
   All discharges to a sewer shall be through an approved sewer connection or
at another discharge point expressly approved by the Village Manager in
accordance with this chapter and with any rules, regulations, or procedures
established by the village as determined necessary by the village to administer
and implement this chapter. No person shall discharge any waste or other
substances into a manhole, catch basin, or inlet.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.031 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any part or appurtenance of the POTW, nor
discharge into the POTW, without first obtaining a written sewer service
lateral connection permit from the village. The village may establish different
classes of sewer service lateral connection permits (for example, residential,
commercial, and industrial classes) as determined appropriate from time to time
by the village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.032 SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS; CONNECTION COSTS; PERFORMANCE BONDS AND
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any premises proposing to connect to the POTW shall make
application on a form furnished by the village for a permit to connect to the
POTW. The application shall include plans and specifications for all plumbing
construction within the building or premises. The plans and specifications
shall meet the requirements of this chapter, the State Plumbing Code, and all
other applicable state rules and regulations (provided that if the requirements
of this chapter are more restrictive, the requirements of this chapter shall
control). The application shall be supplemented by such information as required
by the village to administer this chapter. A permit, connection, and inspection
fee in an amount determined from time-to-time by resolution of the Village
Council, along with any fees or charges required by any other ordinance of the
village, shall be paid to the village at the time an application is filed.
   (B)   If the application to connect is approved by the village, a temporary
connection permit shall be issued, subject to a final inspection and approval
when construction is completed and ready for connection with the village sewer
system.
   (C)   All connections to the village sewer system shall be made under the
supervision of the village. The applicant for the sewer service lateral
connection permit shall notify the village when the sewer service lateral is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The village shall
inspect the building and plumbing construction. If the building and plumbing
construction is consistent with the temporary permit and meets other applicable
rules and regulations, the village shall issue a final connection permit,
provided that all applicable fees have been paid to the village.
   (D)   The village may deny a connection permit if the village determines
that application for the permit shows that there is a reasonable potential that
the anticipated discharges may interfere with the POTW; that there is not
current sufficient treatment capacity to handle the anticipated discharges;
that the anticipated discharges will be inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter, the village’s NPDES permit, any other local, state, or federal
law or regulation; or that the anticipated discharges will in any other way
harm, adversely affect, or hamper the operations of the POTW.
   (E)   Connection to a public sewer will not be allowed (and the village
shall not issue a connection permit) until all assessments due and all advance
deposits established have been paid and unless there is capacity available (in
both wastewater volume and strength) at the WWSL and in all downstream sewers,
pump stations, interceptors, and force mains, including, but not limited to,
adequate capacity to accept, treat, and dispose of BOD, TSS, or similar
materials as required by applicable local, state, or federal laws, rules or
regulations, as determined by the Village Manager.
   (F)   If the Village Manager determines that it is necessary to evaluate the
ability or capacity of the POTW to accept any current or proposed discharge,
the Village Manager may require any existing or proposed user to demonstrate to
the Village Manager’s satisfaction that the discharge will be compatible with
the POTW, will not affect any requirements imposed upon the village on the
discharge, will not adversely affect the POTW, and is consistent with the
requirements of an applicable user permit. Such demonstration shall be made by
any means determined necessary and appropriate by the Village Manager,
including, but not limited to, a headworks analysis or treatability study to be
conducted at the user’s sole expense.
   (G)   Before any permit or approval is issued by the village for excavating
for plumbing or drain laying in any public street, way, or alley, the person
applying for the permit or approval may be required to execute and deposit with
the village a performance bond with corporate security in the amount of the
contracted or estimated work, conditioned upon faithful performance of all work
with due care and skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules, and
regulations established by the village pertaining to sewers and plumbing. This
bond shall state that the person will indemnify and save harmless the village
and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs, expenses, outlays,
and claims of every nature and kind arising out of mistake or negligence on the
person’s part in connection with plumbing, sewer line connection, or excavating
for plumbing or sewer connection as prescribed in this section. The bond shall
remain in force and must be executed for a period of one year, except that,
upon expiration, it shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims, or
damages that may have accrued thereunder prior to the expiration. The person
applying for the permit or approval may also be required to provide public
liability insurance for the protection of the village, the property owner, and
all persons, to indemnify them for all damages caused by accidents attributable
to the work, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 for one person, $500,000 for
bodily injuries per accident, and $250,000 for property damages.
   (H)   It is unlawful to connect to the POTW without obtaining a sewer
connection permit and except in full compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. A violation of a connection permit is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.033 MULTIPLE BUILDINGS; SEPARATE USES WITHIN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A separate and independent sewer service lateral shall be provided for
each building. However, if any existing building is located on an interior lot
so that a separate, independent sewer service lateral is not available for the
building, and one cannot be constructed to the building through an adjoining
alley, courtyard, or driveway, more than one building may be served with the
same sewer service lateral, subject to approval by the Village Manager. In
areas where laterals have not been made, or where unusual lot splits have
occurred, leaving only one lateral for two properties, joint use of this
lateral may be approved by the Village Manager with the connection to the
village sewer being allowed if determined consistent with the purposes and
objectives of this chapter by the Village Manager. Independent sewer service
laterals and/or control manholes may also be required for separate uses within
a building, as determined necessary by the Village Manager.
   (B)   All discharge limits contained in this chapter shall apply to that
portion of the lateral emanating from a single building or from each separate
use within a building, as applicable. Compliance with pretreatment standards or
local discharge limits prescribed by this chapter shall be determined based on
each separate discharge to the common lateral prior to commingling with
discharges from other sources.
   (C)   The village assumes no responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any single sewer service lateral which serves more than one
building.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.034 EXISTING SEWER SERVICE LATERALS.
   Existing sewer service laterals (including, but not limited to, laterals
used to connect buildings previously demolished or removed) may be used to
connect new buildings to the public sanitary sewer only if they are found, on
examination and test by the Village Manager, to meet all requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws and regulations. If an inspection by the
village reveals that a connection may create a health or environmental hazard,
nuisance, or is otherwise inconsistent with the purposes and requirements of
this chapter, the sewer service lateral shall be reconstructed or repaired at
the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.035 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS; CLEANOUTS.
   (A)   The minimum pipe size, slope, alignment, materials or construction of
a sewer service lateral and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of
the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other applicable rules
and regulations as specified and determined by the village. In the absence of
code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society for Testing
Materials (ASTM) and the Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply, as determined appropriate by the village.
   (B)   All newly constructed sewer service laterals shall have one or more
properly sized cleanouts of the type and design and at the locations as
specified by the village. All cleanouts shall be plugged at the ground surface
with suitable means to prevent surface water entry. All required cleanouts
shall be accessible at all times and shall allow access of sewer cleaning
equipment of a size equivalent to the size of the sewer service lateral.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.036 SEWER SERVICE LATERAL ELEVATION AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the sewer service lateral shall be brought to the
buildings at an elevation below the basement floor. No sewer service lateral
shall be laid parallel to, or within three feet of, any bearing wall. The
minimum depth of the sewer service lateral at the property line shall be eight
and one-half feet below the established street grade. If this minimum depth
cannot be obtained, the sewer service lateral shall be laid within a rise of
one-quarter inch per foot. The line shall be straight or laid with properly
curved pipe and fittings. Changes in direction shall be made with no less than
a 45 degree bend. Each bend of 45 degrees or more shall have an accessible
cleanout. All excavations required for the installation of a sewer service
lateral shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the village.
Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with current ASTM
specifications, except that no backfill shall be placed until the village has
inspected the work.
   (B)   Sewer service laterals shall be located at least ten feet apart.
However, these pipes may be installed in the same trench if the water pipe is
always 18 inches above the sewer service lateral and on an undisturbed shelf on
the opposite side of the trench from the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.037 FLOOD DRAINS; BACKWATER VALVE DEVICES.
   Floor drains connected to the sewer service lateral shall be required for
all basements or cellars if the elevation of the public sanitary sewer will
service the building. All required floor drains shall have check valves or
backflow preventers that meet current laws and regulations as determined by the
village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.038 LOW SEWER SERVICE LATERALS; LIFTS AND RISERS.
   (A)   In all buildings in which any sewer service lateral is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains
shall be lifted by artificial means and discharged to the sewer service
lateral, at the owner’s expense, and subject to approval by the village.
   (B)   Where the sanitary sewer is more than 12 feet deep measured from
established street grade, a riser shall be constructed on the sewer using
methods and materials approved by the village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.039 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The connection of the sewer service lateral into the sanitary sewer
system shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications. The connections shall be made gas-tight
and water-tight and verified by proper testing. All connections and joints, and
any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials, must be approved by
the village before installation.
   (B)   The connection of the sewer service lateral into the public sewer
shall be made at the wye branch designated for the property if such branch is
available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated wye
branch in the main sewer shall be made only as approved and as directed by the
village.
   (C)   The connection of a surface runoff or groundwater drain to a storm
sewer or natural outlet designed to transport surface runoff or groundwater
drainage shall conform to the requirements of the applicable building code or
other applicable requirements of the village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.040 PROTECTION AND RESTORATION.
   All excavations for sewer service lateral installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village at the
expense of the owner.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.041 CONNECTION TO SOURCES OF RUNOFF PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect (or allow to remain connected) roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a sewer service lateral or building drain that
in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any
such connection shall be permanently disconnected at the sole expense of the
property owner.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.042 PRETREATMENT OF ANY DISCHARGE MAY BE REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of any discharge to the public sewer, including, but not
limited to, grease, oil, and sand interceptors, shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Village Manager, they are necessary.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.043 SEPARATE AND INDEPENDENT CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Separate and independent sanitary service connections shall be provided for
each parcel of land adjacent to the path of the sanitary sewer. Additional
sanitary service connections to a parcel shall be provided only when
specifications of lot size, distance from the sewer line, and other such zoning
conditions are met; approval of the village is given; and all permit and
connection fees for each additional service connection are paid.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** CONDITIONS OF SERVICE ****
§ 51.060 RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITY FOR SEWER SERVICE LATERALS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation, connection,
maintenance, and repair or replacement of a private sewer service lateral (the
portion of a sewer service lateral from the building drain to the property
line), and any other private sewer lines shall be borne solely by the property
owner. Further, the property owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of any
private sewer service lateral, private sewer line, or storm drain connection.
   (B)   The village or a contractor hired or approved by the village shall
construct any needed public sewer service lateral from the property line or
public right-of-way easement to the public sewer main. The village shall pay
all costs of construction of the public sewer service lateral, including costs
to construct any portion of the lateral within the public right-of-way.
   (C)   The property owner shall maintain, clean, repair, and replace any
private sewer service lateral or other private sewer lines on the property at
the property owner’s expense as necessary to keep the private lines free and
clear of obstructions and in good working order, and shall maintain and keep
clear of obstructions the private sewer service laterals servicing the
property.
   (D)   Prior to performing any maintenance, cleaning, repair, or replacement
of a private sewer service lateral by the property owner as required by
division (C), above, the property owner shall receive written approval from the
Village Manager. To facilitate any maintenance, repair, or replacement required
by division (C), the village shall be responsible for all necessary public
street excavation, public street fill, and public street repair. Proper
inspection of the maintenance, repair, or replacement will be conducted during
such street fill and street repair.
   (E)   The village shall maintain, clean, repair, and replace as necessary
and at the village’s expense the public sewer service laterals and public sewer
mains, but shall not be responsible for cleaning, maintenance, repair, or
replacement of, or liability for, private sewer service laterals or private
sewer lines, including, but not limited to, the building drain.
   (F)   If there is a dispute as to whether needed maintenance, cleaning,
repair, or replacement of a portion of sewer line is the responsibility of the
property owner or the village under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be
the duty of the property owner to establish to the Village Manager’s
satisfaction that the obstruction, disrepair, or defect has occurred in that
portion of the public sewer for which the village is responsible. If the
Village Manager determines that the property owner has failed to establish the
village’s responsibility, it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to
perform the necessary cleaning, maintenance, and repair as provided in this
chapter. If the village’s responsibility is established, the village shall
perform the necessary cleaning, maintenance, or repair and shall reimburse the
property owner for reasonable expenses incurred in locating the defect in the
line or in otherwise establishing the village’s responsibility.
   (G)   Any property owner who violates the provisions of this chapter shall
be liable to the village for all costs, expenses, and damages incurred by the
village in correcting the problem. Further, if any property owner fails to
maintain a private sewer service lateral or other private sewer line as
required by this chapter, in addition to the other penalties prescribed, the
private sewer may be declared a public nuisance by the County Health Department
and the problem may be corrected by the village. Any costs so incurred by the
village shall be assessed against the property and become a lien on the
property if not timely paid.
   (H)   The following diagram of a typical sewer service connection shows the
basic components of the private and public sewer lines as provided in this
section. The diagram is provided solely for purposes of illustration of a
typical connection and the provisions of this section and other applicable
provisions of this chapter shall govern in any particular situation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4956ed2e238f385fd1262aee3a44d82adfbc6d6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1570.png]
 
   (I)    All village ordinances, resolutions, or other regulations, if any,
that conflict with or are inconsistent with the requirements of this section,
as determined by the Village Manager, are rescinded.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.061 WATER METERS; WASTEWATER METERS.
   All users shall have meters on all water sources that ultimately discharge
into the POTW or shall meter the liquid wastes at the point of discharge into
the POTW, as determined necessary and appropriate by the Village Manager. All
meters shall be approved by the village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.062 DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The village shall not be held responsible for claims made against it by
reason of the breaking of any sewer or service laterals, or by reason of any
other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or
stoppage for necessary repairs; no person shall be entitled to damages nor have
any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.063 SERVICE INSPECTIONS.
   All premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all times be subject
to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the village.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** DISCHARGE PROHIBITED ****
§ 51.080 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED WITHOUT REQUIRED APPROVALS, PERMITS, AND
TREATMENT.
   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by local, state, and federal laws
and regulations, and subject to obtaining all required permits and approvals
from governmental agencies (including, without limitation, the village, EGLE,
and the U.S. EPA) and providing any required treatment, it shall be unlawful to
discharge, or permit or cause to be discharged, either directly or indirectly:
   (A)   Polluted water, sewage, or wastewater to any natural outlet within the
village, to any waters of the state (or waters of the United States), or to any
public sewer; or
   (B)   Unpolluted water of any kind, including, without limitation,
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, artesian well water,
drainage water (surface or subsurface), industrial non-contact cooling water,
air-conditioning water, swimming pool water, or unpolluted industrial process
waters to any sanitary sewer. Unpolluted water may be discharged only to a
sewer that is specifically designated as a storm sewer or to a natural outlet,
and only if all applicable permits and approvals have first been obtained from
the village and other governmental bodies or agencies, and only if not
prohibited by applicable local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
   (C)   If any person drains or discharges any unpolluted water by means of
conductors, eaves troughs, roof downspouts, footing drains, or otherwise,
directly or indirectly, into a storm sewer, or natural outlet in violation of
applicable laws or regulations, or into a sanitary sewer, the village shall
order its disconnection at the property owner’s expense, and if the property
owner refuses to obey the village’s order, then the village shall disconnect
the connection and the costs shall be charged to the property owner.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO THE POTW ****
§ 51.090 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge to the POTW except in compliance with this
chapter. The general discharge prohibitions under division (A) and the specific
discharge prohibitions under division (B) apply to every person whether or not
the person is subject to any other national, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements, and whether or not the discharge is made pursuant to
a user permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No person shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly to the POTW, any pollutant or wastewater
that will pass through or interfere with the operation or performance of the
POTW.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No person shall discharge or contribute to the
POTW, directly or indirectly, any of the pollutants, substances, or wastewater
as provided by this division (B). This division (B) sets forth the minimum
requirements for a user’s discharges to the POTW. Additional or more
restrictive requirements may be required of particular users by a user permit,
or as otherwise authorized or required by this chapter or other applicable laws
and regulations.
      (1)   Standard concentration limits. Unless a SAL for a pollutant
parameter has been developed and approved for a user as provided by division
(C), no person shall discharge or contribute to the POTW, directly or
indirectly, pollutants in concentrations that exceed the maximum concentrations
(“Standard Concentration Limits”) listed below in this division (B)(1).
Toxic Pollutants (Standard Concentration Limits)
Parameter* Instantaneous Maximum Daily Maximum
Toxic Pollutants (Standard Concentration Limits)
Parameter*       Instantaneous Maximum Daily Maximum
                 mg/l1 Sample Type2    mg/l1 Sample Type2
INORGANICS
Arsenic          -     -               -     Composite
Barium           -     -               -     Composite
Cadmium          -     -               -     Composite
Chromium (total) -     -               -     Composite
Copper           -     -               -     Composite
Cyanide          -     Grab            -     Grab
Lead             -     -               -     Composite
Selenium         -     -               -     Composite
Nickel           -     -               -     Composite
Silver           -     -               -     Composite
Zinc             -     -               -     Composite
Compaptible Pollutants (Standard Concentration Limits)
Parameter* Instantaneous Maximum Daily Maximum
           mg/l1 Sample Type2    mg/l1 Sample Type2
Compaptible Pollutants (Standard Concentration Limits)
Parameter*             Instantaneous Maximum Daily Maximum
                       mg/l1 Sample Type2    mg/l1 Sample Type2
BOD5                   -     -               3003  Composite
COD                    -     -               4504  Composite
Total Suspended Solids -     -               3505  Composite
Phosphorus (Total)     -     -               106   Composite
Ammonia Nitrogen (NH3) -     -               507   Composite
FOG (Total)            100   Grab            100   Grab
Notes:
* In the absence of a standard concentration limit specified above for one
or more of the pollutant parameters in division (B)(1), the following
narrative prohibition shall nevertheless be deemed to apply to those
parameters: none of the pollutants shall be discharged, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with any other pollutants,
in an amount that has a reasonable potential to cause pass through or
interference, or is otherwise discharged in an “excessive amount” or in
amount in noncompliance with any applicable local, state, or federal
standard or requirement. This narrative prohibition shall apply in addition
to any other of the narrative prohibitions of divisions (B)(2) through (48)
as determined applicable by the Village Manager.
1. Discharges that contain more than one pollutant that may contribute to
fume toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations, as
determined necessary by the Village Manager. The more restrictive discharge
limits will be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all
compounds identified or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge,
including, without limitation, the specific compounds, if any, listed in
division (B) of this chapter. Also, see §
51.094, regarding application of most restrictive or additional standards
or requirements under local, state, and federal laws and regulations. The
Village Manager may develop alternative limits to the standard local limits
for specific pollutants (“special alternative limits” or “SALS”) as
provided by division (C).
2. See §
51.173 for sample type requirements.
3. Discharges of BOD5 may also be subject to surcharges at the surcharge
thresholds and at the surcharge rates as set from time to time by
resolution of the Village Council.
4. Discharges of COD may also be subject to surcharges at the surcharge
thresholds and at the surcharge rates as set from time to time by
resolution of the Village Council.
5. Discharges of TSS may also be subject to surcharges at the surcharge
thresholds and at the surcharge rates as set from time to time by
resolution of the Village Council.
6. Discharges of phosphorous (total) may also be subject to surcharges at
the surcharge thresholds and at the surcharge rates as set from time to
time by resolution of the Village Council.
7. Discharges of ammonia nitrogen (NH3) may also be subject to surcharges
at the surcharge thresholds and at the surcharge rates as set from time to
time by resolution of the Village Council. The IMC and daily maximum limits
listed above in this division (B)(1) (or as listed elsewhere in this
chapter or in any user permit, SAL, or order) for each pollutant parameter
are the concentrations which may not be exceeded and at which enforcement
begins. The surcharge threshold concentrations or loadings established by
the Village Manager as provided by this chapter are the concentrations or
loadings above which surcharges may be imposed. Discharges exceeding the
surcharge thresholds, and which also exceed the instantaneous maximum and
daily maximum limits (or which violate any other applicable prohibitions,
limitations, standards, or requirements), are violations of this chapter,
and are also subject to surcharges as provided by this chapter. All
violations of applicable discharge prohibitions and limitations and all
instances of noncompliance with applicable discharge requirements
constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to applicable fines,
penalties, and other enforcement actions. In no event shall the imposition
of a surcharge for a discharge that does not meet the applicable
prohibitions, limitations, or requirements be construed as authorizing the
illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter.
 
      (2)   Any liquid, solid, gas or other pollutant (including, but not
limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, or fuel oil) which by reason of
its nature or quantity is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to create a fire or explosion hazard or be injurious in any other
way to persons, the POTW, or to the operation of the sewerage system,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140ºF or 60ºC using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21 and
any pollutant which (alone or by interaction with other substances) causes an
exceedence of 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) at any point within the
POTW.
      (3)   Pollutants that may cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW
or any related facilities or equipment, or that due to their corrosive
properties are capable of causing injury to persons or POTW personnel, or harm
to fish, animals, or the environment. Discharges that have a pH lower than 6.0
s.u. (instantaneous minimum limit) or greater than 9.5 s.u. (instantaneous
maximum limit) shall not be discharged. Any wastewater discharge with a pH
value less than 5.0 s.u. shall be considered a prohibited slug discharge
regardless of duration or volume.
      (4)   Any solid, insoluble, or viscous substance in concentrations or
quantities which may cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW, may create an
encumbrance to the POTW operations, or which otherwise may result in
interference.
      (5)   Any pollutant, including, but not limited to, oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD, etc.), released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
that may cause pass through or interference with the POTW or constitute a slug
loading, or is otherwise discharged to the POTW in excessive amounts.
      (6)   Wastewater (or vapor) having a temperature that will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW or result in interference or heat in such
quantities that the temperature at any lift station or at the WWSL exceeds
104ºF (40ºC). No discharge to the POTW shall have a temperature less than 40ºF
(4.4ºC) or greater than 135ºF (57.2ºC), unless approved in advance by the
Village Manager.
      (7)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, and products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that may cause interference or pass through.
      (8)   Pollutants that result in the presence of gases, vapors, or fumes
within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, wastewaters which
contain liquids, solids or gases that cause gases, vapors, or fumes from the
discharge to exceed 10% of the immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH)
concentration. Discharges that contain more than one pollutant that may
contribute to fume toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations,
as determined necessary by the Village Manager. The more restrictive discharge
limits shall be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all compounds
identified or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge.
      (9)   Substances that, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, cause or substantially contribute to increases in sewer gas
hydrogen sulfide levels above ten parts per million vapor (ppmv) concentration
in downstream collection system lift stations, manholes, or sewers. If the
Village Manager determines that a user’s discharge is in violation of this
prohibition, the Village Manager may require the user to take whatever actions
are determined necessary and appropriate by the Village Manager to reduce the
concentration of sewer gas hydrogen sulfide levels to less than ten ppmv.
      (10)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except those introduced into the
system at discharge points designated by the Village Manager, subject to the
prior approval of the Village Manager and prior issuance of a user permit.
         (a)   The Village Manager shall determine whether to allow the
discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants based on the particular nature,
character, or quantity of the proposed discharge in accordance with the
discharge prohibitions, limitations and requirements provided by this section.
         (b)   The Village Manager may impose any conditions on the discharge
determined necessary to ensure compliance with this section, including, without
limitation, conditions regarding the time, place, and manner of discharge,
restrictions on the quantity and quality of the discharge, and sampling
requirements.
         (c)   The discharge shall not commence without prior notice to, and
authorization from, the Village Manager, and a representative of the POTW shall
be present at all times during the discharge.
         (d)   All trucked or hauled wastes to be discharged to the POTW must
be accompanied by a completed waste manifest form signed by the permittee and
the hauler as provided by the minimum requirements of this section. The
permittee shall certify in writing on the manifest as to the source of all
wastes in the load proposed to be discharged and that the wastes have been
pretreated as required by applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
The hauler shall certify in writing on the manifest that the hauler has
accepted no wastes other than those listed on the manifest. The manifest must
be reviewed by the Village Manager prior to commencing discharge of the load.
Failure to accurately record every load, falsification of data, or failure to
transmit the form to the Village Manager for review prior to discharge shall
constitute a violation of the permit and may result in revocation of the permit
and/or the imposition of fines and penalties as provided by this section.
         (e)   The permittee’s discharge of hauled wastes shall be subject to
sampling by the Village Manager at any time, including, without limitation,
prior to and during discharge, at no cost to the POTW. The Village Manager may
require the permittee to refrain from, or suspend, discharging until the sample
analysis is complete.
         (f)   Trucked or hauled pollutants will be accepted only if
transported to the POTW in compliance with state and federal hazardous waste
and liquid industrial waste laws.
         (g)   Each discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants will be accepted
only after payment to the POTW of a trucked or hauled pollutant discharge fee
as required by the Village Manager. An additional fee shall be charged for
trucked or hauled pollutants accepted from outside of the POTW’s service area.
Additional fees and charges may also be assessed to cover the POTW’s
administrative, consulting, and legal expenses, and any additional treatment,
handling, or inspection expenses incurred by the Village Manager in connection
with the discharge. Any such additional fees shall be established, paid, and
collected as provided for IPP fees by §§
51.390 through
51.394. This discharge fee and any other fees and charges as provided by this
division shall be in addition to surcharges that are otherwise applicable to
the discharge.
         (h)   The discharge of liquid industrial by-products may be allowed
subject to the Village Manager’s approval and compliance with any additional
regulations and requirements established by the Village Manager.
         (i)   The discharge of septage waste of any kind is prohibited except
in accordance with an approved septage waste receiving facility operating plan,
only at septage receiving stations as specifically designated by the Village
Manager, and subject to compliance with any additional regulations and
requirements established by the Village Manager.
      (11)   Wastewater with color or light absorbency characteristics that may
interfere with treatment processes or analytical determinations; or color not
removed in the treatment process that may alter the treatment plant’s effluent
or affect the receiving stream; or color that is otherwise discharged to the
POTW in an excessive amount, including, without limitation, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions.
      (12)   Any garbage (commercial or residential); provided that disposal of
domestic food waste into the POTW shall be permitted only after it has been
pulverized by an installed food-waste- grinder unit installed in accordance
with the current Plumbing Code, adopted by the village and enforced by the
village.
      (13)   Solvent extractibles, including, without limitation, oil, grease,
wax, or fat, whether emulsified or not, in excess of applicable local limits;
or other substances that may solidify or become viscous (with a viscosity of
110% of water) at temperatures between 32ºF and 150ºF in amounts that may cause
obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the operation of
the POTW.
      (14)   Soluble substances in a concentration that may increase the
viscosity to greater than 10% over the viscosity of the water or in amounts
that will cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW, resulting in interference.
      (15)   Any substance that exerts or causes a high or unusual
concentration of inert suspended solids, as determined by the Village Manager,
including, but not limited to, lime slurries, diatomaceous earth, and lime
residues.
      (16)   Any wastewater that contains suspended solids of such character,
quantity or concentration that special attention is required, or additional
expense incurred, to process such materials at the POTW.
      (17)   Any substance that exerts or causes a high or unusual
concentration of dissolved solids, including, but not limited to, sodium
chloride or sodium sulfate.
      (18)   Any substance, including, but not limited to, noxious or
malodorous liquids, gases, fumes, or solids, that either singly or by
interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance, cause
workplace conditions in violation of any applicable workplace health or safety
standard, pose a hazard to life, is sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair, or cause any hazardous or unsafe conditions for the
general public.
      (19)   Anti-freeze, motor oil, brake fluid, transmission fluid, hydraulic
fluid, cleaning solvents, oil-based paint, water-based paint with mercury
biocides, and paint thinners.
      (20)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
unless the user is authorized to use radioactive material by the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission or other governmental agency with authority to regulate
the use of radioactive materials, and the discharge is otherwise in full
compliance with the regulations of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and
any other applicable local, state, or federal regulations.
      (21)   Any pollutant, substance, or wastewater that, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, has a
reasonable potential to cause or result in excess foaming during the treatment
process. Excess foaming is any foam that, in the opinion of the Village
Manager, may interfere with the treatment process.
      (22)   Any pollutant, substance, or wastewater that, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, has a
reasonable potential to cause or result in foam in the POTW’s effluent.
      (23)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard.
      (24)   Any hazardous waste as defined by §
51.001.
      (25)   Any medical or infectious wastes, as defined by EGLE.
      (26)   Any substance that may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation, reuse, or disposal, or otherwise interfere with the reclamation,
reuse, or disposal process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW
cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed under 40 C.F.R. Part 503; under Section 405
of the Act; under the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more
commonly referred to as RCRA, and including state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA); the
Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Marine Protection,
Research, and Sanctuaries Act; or any more stringent state or local
regulations, as applicable.
      (27)   Any unpolluted water, including but not limited to, non-contact
cooling water, air conditioning water, swimming pool water, stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, and surface or subsurface drainage, except to
a storm sewer as authorized by this chapter and other applicable local, state,
and federal laws and regulations, and subject to the prior approval of the
Village Manager and EGLE.
      (28)   Dewatering groundwater or surface water shall not be discharged to
any sewer without prior written approval from the Village Manager, subject to
any such conditions as determined appropriate by the Village Manager,
including, but not limited to, compliance with the discharge prohibitions and
local limits provided by this chapter.
      (29)   Any contaminated groundwater or landfill leachate determined by
the Village Manager to have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the
operation of the POTW, to result in pass through or interference, or to violate
any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (30)   Any substance that will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit, the receiving water quality standards, or associated local, state, or
federal laws, rules, or regulations.
      (31)   Any wastewater that exceeds applicable categorical pretreatment
standards, requirements or limits prescribed by local, state, or federal laws,
rules, or regulations.
      (32)   Any compatible or incompatible pollutant in excess of the allowed
limits as determined by applicable local, state, or federal laws, rules, or
regulations.
      (33)   Any sludge, precipitate, or waste resulting from any industrial or
commercial treatment or pretreatment of any person’s wastewater or air
pollutants.
      (34)   Residue (total on evaporation) in an amount that will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW, resulting in interference.
      (35)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment to only such degree that the WWSL effluent cannot meet
the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the
receiving waters.
      (36)   Any non-domestic wastewater before the POTW has approved a notice
of intent submitted according to §
51.147.
      (37)   Waste not typically discharged to a sanitary sewer system unless
specifically authorized by the Village Manager pursuant to policies and
procedures established by the Village Manager and subject to limitations set
forth in this chapter.
      (38)   Any discharge not in compliance with the mass, concentration,
volume, flow rate, or other limitations or requirements specified in a user
permit.
      (39)   Any discharge with an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
POTW’s average daily wastewater flow or having a rate of flow (gallons per day)
greater than 10% of the POTW’s average daily wastewater flow for a period of
one hour or more, except with the prior review and approval of the POTW.
      (40)   Any discharge with detectable levels of a fungicide, herbicide, or
pesticide determined in accordance with methods as provided by 40 C.F.R. Part
136 or as otherwise required by the Village Manager.
      (41)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in amounts
that may cause interference or pass-through.
      (42)   Bacteriological, chemical, or enzymatic products added to a
facility’s discharge or used to maintain or clean FOG interceptors, unless such
products are approved in advance by the Village Manager.
      (43)   Any discharge from a centralized waste treatment facility (“CWT”)
except as approved by the Village Manager.
      (44)   Any trash.
      (45)   Any discharge of PFAS, including but not limited to, PFOS and/or
PFOA, in amounts that have the potential to cause pass through or interference,
or that is otherwise discharged in an excessive amount or in noncompliance with
any applicable state or federal standard or requirement.
      (46)   Any wastewater or substance containing polychlorinated biphenyl
(“PCBs”).
      (47)   Any discharge of mercury in amounts that have the potential to
cause pass through or interference, or that is otherwise discharged in an
excessive amount or in noncompliance with any applicable state or federal
standard or requirement.
      (48)   Any pollutant, substance, or wastewater that, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, has a
reasonable potential to:
         (a)   Create a chemical reaction with any materials of construction to
impair the strength or durability of sewer structures;
         (b)   Cause a mechanical action that will damage or destroy sewer
structures;
         (c)   Impede or restrict the hydraulic capacity of the POTW or cause a
hydraulic surge in the POTW;
         (d)   Cause or result in turbidity, color, excessive odor, oil films,
floating solids, settleable solids or deposits in the POTW’s effluent;
         (e)   Interfere with normal inspection or maintenance of sewer
structures;
         (f)   Place unusual demands upon the wastewater treatment equipment or
processes by biological, chemical, or physical means; or
         (g)   Cause a hazard to human life or create a public nuisance.
   (C)   Special alternative limits. Notwithstanding the standard concentration
limits provided by division (B)(1), the POTW may, but shall not be required to,
develop alternative maximum concentration or mass-based limits for specific
pollutants for a specific user (“Special Alternative Limits” or “SAL”), as
provided by this division (C) and the written SAL procedures established by the
POTW.
      (1)   Requests by users to develop a SAL for one or more pollutants shall
be made in writing to the Village Manager. The Village Manager may also
initiate the development of a SAL for one or more pollutants for a user.
      (2)   After reviewing a request or initiating the development of a SAL,
the Village Manager may require the user to submit any additional information
that the Village Manager determines will be necessary to adequately evaluate
the proposed SAL. This information may include, but shall not be limited to,
any of the information that is required to be provided in a user permit
application as set forth in §
51.113.
      (3)   The Village Manager may require a review of historical data from
sampling and monitoring the user’s discharge, including, but not limited to,
concentration and flow data. The user may be required to update this data using
any means or methods determined necessary by the Village Manager. The Village
Manager may also require a review of typical discharge concentrations and flows
for similar users, and any applicable categorical standards.
      (4)   A site inspection may be required if deemed necessary by the
Village Manager.
      (5)   The Village Manager shall review the status of the WWSL’s current
MAHL and MAIL for the pollutant for which the SAL is being requested to
determine if sufficient loading remains to accommodate all, any part, or none,
of the requested SAL.
      (6)   The Village Manager shall also review whether the pollutant for
which the SAL is being requested is, or should be, subject to a collection
system limitation.
      (7)   If determined necessary by the Village Manager, the Village Manager
may require that an updated MAHL study be conducted to determine whether there
is sufficient loading capacity to accommodate a proposed SAL for the pollutant
in question.
      (8)   After completing the review of a proposed SAL, the Village Manager
may approve, approve subject to conditions (including, but not limited to,
required monitoring methods and frequencies), or deny the SAL, as determined
appropriate by the Village Manager; provided that no proposed or existing SAL
shall:
         (a)   Significantly hinder the capacity of the POTW to accept
additional waste from new or existing domestic or non-domestic customers;
         (b)   Result in an exceedance of the POTW’s MAHL for the SAL
pollutant;
         (c)   Result in an exceedance of the POTW’s MAIL for the SAL
pollutant;
         (d)   Have a discharge concentration (or equivalent discharge
concentration if the SAL is a mass limit) that exceeds a collection system
limitation applicable to the SAL pollutant (unless approved by EGLE); or
         (e)   Be approved or allowed to continue unless the Village Manager
has determined that the SAL is reasonable and appropriate under all of the
circumstances, consistent with the purposes and objectives of this chapter, the
WWSL’s approved written SAL procedures, the POTW’s NPDES permit, and other
applicable laws and regulations. All SALs are subject to review and approval by
EGLE.
      (9)   If a SAL is approved, or approved subject to conditions, and the
user accepts the SAL as approved, the Village Manager may modify or reissue the
user’s user permit to incorporate the SAL in the permit.
      (10)   The development of a SAL or implementation of a SAL in a user
permit shall not convey to any person any property rights or privilege of any
kind whatsoever, nor shall it be construed to authorize any injury to private
or public property or any invasion of personal rights, or any violation of
local, state, or federal laws or regulations. A SAL may be reviewed,
reevaluated, modified, and/or revoked without notice at any time and for any
reason determined appropriate by the Village Manager. At a minimum, all
existing SALs shall be reviewed whenever the POTW’s NPDES permit is subject to
renewal.
      (11)   All costs and expenses, direct and indirect, associated with
developing a SAL for a user shall be paid for by the user, including, but not
limited to, the costs of reviewing the user’s request for a SAL, all studies
and reports, and all monitoring, sampling, and generation of data; the full
value of any POTW staff time (including any administrative and overhead costs
and any required overtime), consultant and engineering fees, and actual
attorney fees (including the POTW’s legal counsel and any special legal
counsel), associated with developing the SAL for the user. At any time prior
to, during, or after the SAL development process, the POTW may require a user
that requests a SAL to post a performance bond (or other form of surety
acceptable to the Village Manager) sufficient to cover all costs and expenses
(direct and/or indirect) that might reasonably be incurred by the Village
Manager as a result of the user’s request or implementation of an approved SAL,
as determined necessary by the Village Manager.
      (12)   Short-term SAL variance for compatible pollutants. A permitted
industrial user may apply for approval of a short-term variance for the user’s
SAL mass-based limit for one or more compatible pollutants as provided by this
division (C)(12).
         (a)   The user’s application for a SAL variance shall be made in
writing to the Village Manager at least 30 days before the requested variance
would go into effect.
         (b)   The written application shall include the reasons for the
variance request, the time period (duration) of the variance requested with
beginning and end dates, a schedule of all major activities, the mass requested
for each compatible pollutant, and a justification for the mass requested for
each compatible pollutant.
         (c)   The Village Manager shall not approve a request for a short-term
SAL variance unless the Village Manager determines that all of the following
conditions apply:
            1.   The user currently has a SAL for the requested compatible
pollutant.
            2.   Based on the Village Manager’s review of the status of the
WWSL's current MAHL and MAIL for the pollutant(s) for which the variance is
being requested, the Village Manager has determined that there is sufficient
current loading capacity to accommodate all, any part, or none of the requested
temporary loading increase.
            3.   If approved, the requested variance would not cause or
contribute to, singly or in combination with other factors, an exceedance of
the WWSL's MAHL or MAIL limits for any pollutant for which the variance is
requested.
            4.   The Village Manager has determined that the WWSL is in
compliance with all relevant NPDES permit discharge requirements at the time
the variance is requested.
         (d)   If the Village Manager determines that all of the conditions in
division (C)(12)(c) apply and that the requested variance is otherwise
justified based on the written variance application, the Village Manager may in
the Village Manager’s discretion approve the requested variance. The Village
Manager’s approval shall be in writing and shall include the dates, the
duration, the temporary SAL mass limit increase for each compatible pollutant,
and any other terms, conditions, or requirements determined necessary or
appropriate by the Village Manager.
         (e)   In no case shall the Village Manager approve a SAL variance with
a duration longer than 14 consecutive calendar days.
         (f)   Upon the Village Manager’s approval of a SAL variance as
provided by this section, the additional amount of mass granted to the user
shall be temporarily withdrawn from the WWSL's MAIL reserves for the requested
compatible pollutant(s) for the duration of the approved variance.
   (D)   Pollutant reduction plans. If the Village Manager determines that a
user has the reasonable potential to discharge any regulated pollutant
(including, but not limited to, mercury, PFAS, or PCBs) to the POTW in
quantities or magnitude that may cause interference or pass through; adversely
impact the POTW, its processes or beneficial use of biosolids; cause
noncompliance with applicable federal or state laws or regulations; cause the
POTW to violate its NPDES permit, or otherwise fail to meet the purposes and
objectives of this chapter, then the Village Manager may require the user to
develop, submit for approval, and implement a reduction plan (“RP”) for the
pollutant, as provided by this section. The RP may be imposed as a condition to
a user permit, or may be required independently and even if a user permit has
not been issued to the user.
      (1)   At a minimum, the RP shall contain such requirements and
conditions, as determined necessary by the Village Manager to ensure that the
pollutant reduction efforts will be effective in achieving the goals of this
chapter (including, but not limited to, requirements and conditions regarding
user source identification; best management practices; schedules of compliance;
monitoring, sampling, and analysis; reporting; treatment system for removal of
the pollutant from the discharged wastewater; written procedures for disposal
of contaminated wastes and wastewater; employee training, and on-going employee
training requirements regarding pollutant related issues; elimination, if
feasible, of any purchased materials containing the pollutant; and any other
elements determined necessary and appropriate under the circumstances by the
Village Manager).
      (2)   The goal of an RP shall be to maintain the amount of one or more
pollutants or substances at or below the applicable discharge limits or levels,
or such other goals as required by the Village Manager. The Village Manager
may, in the Village Manager’s sole discretion, consider cost-effectiveness
during the development and implementation of an RP.
      (3)   The Village Manager may require any user to submit an RP that
describes the control strategy designed to proceed toward achievement of the
specified goal and shall at a minimum include, but shall not be limited to, all
of the following as determined necessary by the Village Manager on a case-by-
case basis:
         (a)   Periodic monitoring for the pollutant in the user’s discharge.
         (b)   Periodic monitoring of the potential sources of the pollutant in
the user’s discharge.
         (c)   A commitment by the user that reasonable control measures and/or
best management practices will be implemented when sources of the pollutant are
discovered. Factors to be considered by the Village Manager may include the
following:
            1.   Significance of sources.
            2.   Economic considerations.
            3.   Technical and treatability considerations.
            4.   Such other factors as determined appropriate by the Village
Manager.
         (d)   An annual status report. The report shall be sent by the user to
the POTW and shall include, at a minimum, all of the following:
            1.   All RP monitoring results for the previous year.
            2.   A list of potential sources of the pollutant in the user’s
discharge.
            3.   A summary of all actions taken by the user to reduce or
eliminate the identified sources of the pollutant or substance.
      (4)   As determined necessary by the Village Manager, the Village Manager
may require a user to develop, submit and implement an RP for any pollutant or
substance regulated by this chapter. The Village Manager may also modify an
approved RP at any time as determined necessary by the Village Manager to meet
the goals and objectives of this chapter.
      (5)   Failure to submit an approvable RP within the specified deadlines
or to fully and timely comply with any condition or requirement of an approved
RP shall constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to the fine, penalty,
and other enforcement provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Holding enforcement action in abeyance. Except as provided for in
divisions (D)(6)(c)4. and 5., if the effluent sample analysis results of a
user’s discharge exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection level, or
quantification level for a pollutant, the Village Manager may, in the Village
Manager’s sole discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue and
may hold any enforcement action regarding the prohibited discharge in abeyance,
subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements of this division (C)(6), as
follows:
         (a)   If an approved RP is already in place. If effluent sample
analysis results exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection level, or
quantification level for a pollutant for which an approved RP is already in
place, then the Village Manager may, in the Village Manager’s sole discretion,
nevertheless allow that discharge to continue and may hold any enforcement
action regarding the prohibited discharge in abeyance for the period that the
sample represents if the RP (and all terms, conditions, and requirements
thereof) is being fully and continually performed in good faith by the user, as
determined by the Village Manager, and subject to all of the requirements and
conditions of division (D)(6)(c).
         (b)   If an approved RP is not already in place. If effluent sample
analysis results exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection level, or
quantification level for a pollutant for which an approved RP is not already in
place, then the Village Manager may, in the Village Manager’s sole discretion,
nevertheless allow that discharge to continue and may hold any enforcement
regarding the prohibited discharge in abeyance, subject to all of the
requirements and conditions of division (D)(6)(c), and provided further as
follows: The user with the non-compliant discharge shall develop and implement
an RP approved by the Village Manager to minimize the user’s discharges of the
pollutant in question to the POTW. The RP shall meet all of the requirements of
this division (D).
         (c)   The following requirements and conditions shall apply to any
situation under this division (D)(6) in which an enforcement action is held in
abeyance as provided by this division (regardless of whether or not an RP was
in place at the time of the non-compliance):
            1.   The user with the non-compliant discharge shall have a POTW-
accessible point for monitoring all discharges from the user to the POTW, as
approved by the Village Manager. All costs and expenses for and related to the
installation and maintenance of this monitoring point and any required sampling
devices shall be paid for solely by the user.
            2.   The user with the non-compliant discharge shall routinely
self-monitor its discharges to the POTW for the pollutant in question using the
sampling methods, procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical
protocol required by the Village Manager and at the frequency specified by the
Village Manager. All costs and expenses of this sampling and analysis shall be
paid for solely by the user.
            3.   The POTW may collect any additional samples of the user’s
discharge as determined necessary by the Village Manager, all costs and
expenses to be paid for by the user.
            4.   If the user complies with all of the requirements and
conditions for the RP as specified by the Village Manager; and if the Village
Manager determines that all reasonable and cost-effective actions based on the
economic, technical, and treatability considerations, including, but not
limited to, all elements of the user’s RP, have been, and continue to be, fully
and satisfactorily implemented by the user; and if the user’s discharge does
not cause interference or pass through, adversely impact the POTW, its
processes or beneficial use of biosolids, cause noncompliance with applicable
federal or state laws or regulations, cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit, or otherwise fail to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter,
then the Village Manager may, in the Village Manager’s sole discretion, hold
enforcement action in abeyance and allow the user to continue the non-compliant
discharge.
            5.   Notwithstanding any provision of this division (D)(6) to the
contrary, and regardless of whether a user fully complies with all requirements
and conditions of this section and/or of an approved RP, the Village Manager
shall have the unconditional right to prohibit and terminate any non-compliant
discharge at any time and without prior notice, and to take any enforcement
action in response thereto, including any enforcement action that had
previously been held in abeyance under this division (D)(6).
            6.   Notwithstanding any provision of this division (D)(6) to the
contrary, the Village Manager shall not hold an enforcement action in abeyance
as provided by this division for any pollutant parameter other than mercury,
PFAS, or PCBs unless the Village Manager has first obtained approval from EGLE
to implement the requirements of this division (D)(6) for the specific
pollutant parameter in question.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.091 PRETREATMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable standards and requirements. The National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards as established for specific industries under
40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N are hereby made a part of the requirements of
this chapter in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations and are
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this chapter. A user shall
comply with all categorical pretreatment standards and any other pretreatment
requirements established under the Act that are applicable to that user. A user
shall also comply with all other applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements established under this chapter or under state and federal laws and
regulations.
   (B)   Deadlines for compliance. Compliance by existing sources with
categorical pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the date the
standard is effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified by 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N. Existing sources that become industrial users
subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall be considered existing industrial users except where such sources meet
the definition of NEW SOURCE. New sources (whether or not subject to
categorical standards) shall install and have in operating condition and shall
start-up all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements before beginning to discharge. Within
the shortest feasible time, not to exceed 90 days, new sources (whether or not
subject to categorical standards) must meet all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (C)   Alternative categorical limits. Categorical pretreatment standards
shall apply to a user subject to categorical standards, unless an enforceable
alternative limit to the corresponding National Categorical Standards is
derived using any of the methods specified in R323.2313 of the State
Administrative Code (regarding removal credits, fundamentally different factor
variances, net/gross calculations, equivalent mass per day limitations, and
combined wastestream formula alternative limitations). The use of any
alternative categorical limit shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Village Manager. If local limits are more stringent than derived alternative
categorical limits, the local limits shall control. All costs incurred by the
village in determining or applying an alternative limit shall be reimbursed to
the village by the user.
   (D)   Categorical pretreatment standard limits apply (and samples shall be
taken) immediately downstream from pretreatment facilities if such exist for a
regulated process discharge within the user’s premises or immediately
downstream of the regulated process discharge if no pretreatment exists, at the
location(s) determined by the Village Manager. Categorical pretreatment
standard limits are in addition to any other pretreatment standards, limits,
and requirements applicable to a user’s discharge to the POTW under a user
permit, this chapter, or other local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
If the categorical pretreatment standard limit applicable to a pollutant in a
user’s regulated process discharge is more stringent than other applicable
discharge limits for that same pollutant in the user’s discharge, the more
stringent categorical pretreatment standard limit shall be complied with at the
end-of-process categorical sampling location. If the categorical pretreatment
standard limit applicable to a pollutant in a user’s regulated process
discharge is less stringent than other applicable discharge limits for that
same pollutant in the user’s discharge, the other more stringent limit shall
nevertheless be complied with at the point of discharge to the POTW.
   (E)   Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations. Users of the
POTW shall comply with all local, state, and federal laws and regulations that
may apply to their discharges to the POTW, including, but not limited to,
Public Act 451, Article II, Part 55 of 1994, as amended (the Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection Act).
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.092 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
village reserves the right to establish more restrictive prohibitions,
limitations, standards, or requirements for discharges to the POTW to prevent
interference or pass through, to protect the POTW, to comply with the purposes
and objectives of this chapter, to comply with applicable federal or state laws
or regulations, to comply with the POTW’s NPDES permit, or as otherwise
determined necessary by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.093 POTW’S RIGHT TO REFUSE OR CONDITION DISCHARGE.
   The POTW may refuse to accept, or may condition its acceptance of, all or
any portion of any proposed or existing discharge to the POTW from any person,
regardless of whether or not a user permit has been issued for the discharge,
if the Village Manager determines that the discharge has a reasonable potential
to: adversely affect the operation of the POTW; result in pass through or
interference; violate any pretreatment standard or requirement; cause the POTW
to violate its NPDES permit; or if the impacts of the discharge on the POTW or
the POTW’s discharge are uncertain or unknown (because, for example, no local
limits or headworks analysis has been conducted for particular pollutants in
the discharge). If the Village Manager denies any person permission to commence
or continue all or any portion of a discharge to the POTW, the person shall
refrain from commencing to discharge or shall immediately terminate the
discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence discharge without
written authorization from the Village Manager. Similarly, if the Village
Manager denies any person permission to commence or continue all or any portion
of a discharge to the POTW except subject to conditions determined necessary
and appropriate by the Village Manager, the person shall refrain from
commencing or continuing the discharge except in full compliance with those
conditions. This includes, but is not limited to, the POTW’s right to revise or
revoke user permits.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.094 MOST RESTRICTIVE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS APPLY.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the most
stringent or restrictive standard or requirement applicable to a user’s
discharge shall control, whether established by this chapter, by any notice,
order, permit, decision, or determination promulgated, issued, or made by the
Village Manager under this chapter, by state laws or regulations, including the
POTW’s NPDES permit, or by federal laws or regulations. Further, if state or
federal laws or regulations provide for standards and requirements not covered
by this chapter that are otherwise applicable to a user’s discharge, those
standards and requirements shall apply to the user in addition to those
required by this chapter, and the most restrictive of those additional
standards or requirements shall control and shall be complied with by the user
immediately or within the time period specified by the law or regulation.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.095 DILUTION PROHIBITED AS SUBSTITUTE FOR TREATMENT.
   Unless expressly authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment standard
or requirement and subject to the prior approval of the Village Manager, no
user shall ever increase the use of process water, mix separate wastestreams,
or in any other way attempt to dilute, thin, or weaken a discharge as a partial
or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a
federal, state, or local standard, requirement, or limitation. The Village
Manager may impose mass limitations on non-domestic users that are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements and in other
cases where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. No user
intending to use dilution as a substitute for treatment shall do so without the
prior approval of the Village Manager consistent with the requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** USER PERMITS ****
§ 51.110 USER PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Non-domestic user permits. It is unlawful and prohibited for any
significant industrial user (SIU), or any other user as determined necessary by
the Village Manager to carry out the purposes of this chapter, to discharge to
the POTW without a non-domestic user permit as provided by this section.
   (B)   General user permits. The Village Manager may require any person other
than a SIU to obtain a general user permit to discharge to the POTW, subject to
such terms and conditions as are determined necessary and appropriate by the
Village Manager to achieve the purposes, policies, and objectives of this
chapter.
      (1)   A general user permit may contain, but shall not be required to
contain, any of the terms and conditions that would apply to a non-domestic
user permit issued to a SIU as provided by this section to comply with the
general and specific discharge prohibitions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, discharge limitations and requirements regarding sampling and
monitoring; pretreatment; pollution prevention, minimization or reductions
plans; accidental discharge, spill prevention, and containment requirements;
flow equalization; and implementation of best management practices or a best
management practices plan.
      (2)   To the extent determined appropriate by the Village Manager on a
case-by-case basis, a general user permit issued under this division shall be
subject to provisions otherwise applicable to permits for SIUs. However, all
general user permits shall be non-transferable, and are subject to the permit
fee and permit appeals provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   It is unlawful and prohibited for any person required by the
Village Manager to obtain a general user permit to discharge to the POTW
without a general user permit as provided by this section.
      (4)   Failure to comply with a general user permit issued under this
division constitutes a violation of this chapter.
      (5)   In no case shall a general user permit be construed to authorize
the illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, if
determined necessary by the Village Manager to achieve the goals and purposes
of this chapter, the Village Manager may issue a user permit to any person
without first requiring the person to submit or complete a permit application.
   (D)   Any violation of the terms or conditions of a user permit is a
violation of this chapter, subject to the fine, penalty, and other enforcement
provisions of this chapter. Obtaining a user permit shall not relieve a person
of the obligation to obtain other permits or approvals that may be required by
other local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
   (E)   The issuance of a user permit shall not convey to any person any
property rights or privilege of any kind whatsoever, nor shall it be construed
to authorize any injury to private or public property or any invasion of
personal rights, or any violation of local, state, or federal laws or
regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.111 DETERMINATION OF USER STATUS.
   (A)   The POTW may require any person to submit information to the POTW for
its use in determining the person’s status as a user, including, but not
limited to, whether the user is a SIU, as well as to determine changes or the
absence or inadequacy of changes in a user’s facilities.
   (B)   The POTW shall notify a non-domestic user of the POTW’s belief that
the user is, or may be, a SIU, or is otherwise required to obtain a permit to
discharge. Upon such notification, the user must complete and submit an
application for a non-domestic user permit on a form furnished by the Village
Manager. The failure of the POTW to so notify a non-domestic user shall not
relieve any SIU of the duty to obtain a permit as required by this chapter.
   (C)   Upon determination that a user permit is required, no connection to
the POTW shall be made and no discharge thereto shall occur until a permit is
duly issued; provided, however, that the Village Manager may, in the Village
Manager’s sole discretion, issue a written authorization in place of a permit,
which authorization shall be valid for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.112 PERMIT APPLICATION DEADLINES.
   (A)   Each user must file an application for a user permit on the form
provided by the Village Manager within the following deadlines:
      (1)   Existing SIUs. Any SIU discharging into the POTW as of the
effective date of this chapter shall submit a completed permit application form
to the POTW as provided by this section within at least 90 days of being so
directed and provided a form by the Village Manager.
      (2)   Proposed new SIUs. Any SIU proposing to commence (or recommence)
discharging into the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall, at
least 90 days prior to the anticipated date on which discharging will commence
(or recommence), request a permit application form and submit the completed
application to the POTW.
      (3)   Categorical users subject to new standard. A user which becomes
subject to a new or revised National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, and
which has not previously submitted an application for a permit as required
herein, shall apply to the POTW for a non-domestic user permit within 90 days
after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard. The POTW may also initiate this action; however, the failure of the
POTW so to do shall not relieve a user of its obligation to obtain a permit.
      (4)   Before taking possession or control of the processes or operations
to which an existing user permit applies, the user taking possession or control
shall apply to the Village Manager for the issuance of a new user permit a
minimum of 90 days before the user takes possession or control.
      (5)   Other users. Any other user directed by the Village Manager to
complete and submit a user permit application shall do so within at least 90
days of being so directed by the Village Manager and provided a form by the
Village Manager. Any user not required to obtain a user permit for existing
discharges must apply for and receive a user permit prior to changing the
user’s discharge in such a manner that the resulting discharge would require a
user permit.
   (B)   The Village Manager may also require any other person to file the
information required by §
51.113 (whether or not that person is currently a user, and whether or not that
person is otherwise currently discharging to the POTW, a storm sewer, or
receiving waters), if the Village Manager determines that there is a reasonable
potential for the person to discharge to the POTW, a storm sewer, or receiving
waters, whether due to an accidental spill or for any other reason. Any person
directed by the Village Manager to submit the required shall do so within the
time frame as directed by the Village Manager.
   (C)   The failure or refusal of any person to submit or complete a permit
application shall not in any way relieve the person from the duty to comply
with a permit issued by the Village Manager. In no case shall the receipt or
non-receipt of a completed permit application prevent the issuance of a permit
by the Village Manager or relieve a person from the duty of fully complying
with a permit that is issued by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.113 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All users shall submit the information required by this section on the user
permit application supplied by the Village Manager (or attached thereto) in the
form and at a level of detail and in units and terms as determined necessary by
the Village Manager to adequately evaluate the application, accompanied by
payment of a permit application review fee. A separate application and
supporting documentation shall be submitted for each separate location for
which a user permit is required.
   (A)   The name, address, and location of the facility or premises from which
discharge will be made, including the names of the owner(s) and operator(s) of
the facility or premises.
   (B)   Corporate or individual name, federal employer identification number,
address, and telephone number of the applicant.
   (C)   Whether the user is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, or
other type of entity, and the name of the person(s) responsible for discharges
by the user.
   (D)   Name and title of the local authorized representative of the user who
will have the authority to bind the applicant financially and legally and who
is authorized by the applicant as its agent to accept service of legal process,
and the address and telephone number of such representative.
   (E)   The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) numbers of all processes
at the location for which application is made, according to the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, as amended (or, if applicable, the North
American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) designation).
   (F)   Actual or proposed wastewater constituents and characteristics for
each parameter listed in the permit application, including, but not limited to,
any pollutants that are limited or regulated by any federal, state, or local
standards or requirements. The information provided for such parameters shall
include all of the following:
      (1)   Pollutants having numeric or narrative limitations as provided by
this chapter.
      (2)   Pollutants limited by National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
regulations for similar industries.
      (3)   For each parameter, the expected or experienced maximum and average
concentrations during a one-year period shall be provided.
      (4)   For industries subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or requirements, the data required shall be separately shown for each
categorical process wastestream and shall include all information required in §
51.140(A) for a baseline monitoring report.
      (5)   Combined wastestreams proposed to be regulated by the combined
wastestream formula shall be specified.
      (6)   Information regarding any other potential pollutants of concern,
even if not limited by numeric or narrative limitations as provided by this
chapter or subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
requirements.
   (G)   For purposes of information required by the application, sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with the following: Procedures
established by U.S. EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and as contained
in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended. If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not include a
sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedures in U.S. EPA
publication “Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial
Effluents for Priority Pollutants,” April 1977, and amendments or revisions
thereto, or where appropriate and applicable, in accordance with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by EPA, or as otherwise specified
by the Village Manager.
   (H)   A listing and description of the following: plant activities, plant
facilities, and plant processes on the premises for which the permit is being
applied. Processes which are subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or requirements shall be so designated, and identification of which
pollutants are associated with each process shall be stated.
   (I)   A listing of the type and amount of raw materials and chemicals
(including material safety data sheets) that are either used in the
manufacturing process or could yield the pollutants referred to in this
section. Any user claiming immunity from having to provide such information
shall furnish proof of such immunity that is acceptable to the Village Manager
and in accordance with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and
regulations.
   (J)   (1)   A statement containing information on the spill containment and
prevention of accidental/spill discharges program for each of the pollutants
referred to in this section. The information provided shall include the
following:
         (a)   The approximate average and maximum quantities of such
substances kept on the premises in the form of the following: raw materials,
chemicals, and/or wastes therefrom; and
         (b)   The containment capacity for each of the above items.
      (2)   The following requirements apply for purposes of the spill
containment and prevention statement required by this division:
         (a)   For raw materials, chemical solutions or waste materials that do
not contain any substance on the Critical Materials Register promulgated by
EGLE, only substances which are in a form which could readily be carried into
the sewerage system and which constitute a concentration of 5% or greater on a
dry weight basis in the raw material, chemical solution, or waste material are
required to be included in the statement. Volumes of less than 55 gallons or
the equivalent need not be included unless lesser quantities could cause
interference or pass through to the sewerage system.
         (b)   For raw materials, chemical solutions, or waste materials that
contain any amount of any substance on the Critical Materials Register
promulgated by EGLE, the statement shall include the name of the substance and
the expected concentration so that the Village Manager can determine whether or
not it may constitute a threat to the POTW if a spill occurs.
   (K)   The name and address of each laboratory performing analytical work for
the user submitting the application.
   (L)   A description of typical daily and weekly operating cycles for each
process in terms of starting and ending times for each of the seven days of the
week.
   (M)   Average and maximum 24-hour wastewater flow rates, including 30 minute
peak wastewater flow rates, and daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if
any; a list of each National Categorical Process wastestream flow rate and the
cooling water, sanitary water, and stormwater flow rates separately for each
connection to the POTW; and list showing each combined wastestream. All flows
shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the
Village Manager.
   (N)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by the
size, location, elevation, and points or places of discharges into the POTW,
storm sewer, or receiving waters.
   (O)   A flow schematic drawing showing which connections receive each
National Categorical Process wastestream or other process wastestreams, and
which connections receive stormwater, sanitary water, or cooling water.
   (P)   A schematic drawing showing which sewers handle each combined
wastestream.
   (Q)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and the
rate of production as it pertains to processes subject to production-based
limits under National Categorical Standards or requirements shall be specified.
   (R)   Actual or proposed hours of operation of each pretreatment system for
each production process.
   (S)   A description and schematic drawing showing each pretreatment
facility, identifying whether each such facility is of the batch type or
continuous process type.
   (T)   If other than potable water is used, identification of the user’s
source of intake water together with the types of usage and disposal method of
each water source and the estimated wastewater volume from each source.
   (U)   A statement certified by a qualified professional regarding whether
the requirements of this chapter and the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards and requirements are being met on a consistent basis; and if not,
what additional operation and maintenance work and/or additional construction
is required for the user to comply with applicable standards and requirements.
   (V)   A list of all environmental permits (and, if requested by the Village
Manager, a copy of any environmental permit) held by the user applicable to the
premises for which the user permit is being sought.
   (W)   Whether additional operation and maintenance (O and M) and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet all applicable
federal, state, and local pretreatment standards and requirements. If
additional O and M or additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
applicable standards and requirements, then the user shall indicate the
shortest time schedule necessary to accomplish installation or adoption of the
additional O and M and/or pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (including, without limitation, hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, beginning operation, and conducting routine operation). No
increment referred to above shall exceed nine months, nor shall the total
compliance period exceed 18 months.
      (2)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the POTW
including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more than
nine months elapse between submissions of the progress reports to the POTW.
   (X)   Any other information determined necessary by the Village Manager to
adequately evaluate the application. To the extent that actual data is not
available for a new source, the applicant shall supply estimated or expected
information.
   (Y)   All applications (and reapplications) shall be signed and certified by
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the user as defined in §
51.001.
   (Z)   The information required to be submitted with an application,
including but not limited to, blueprints, drawings, schematics, and site plans,
shall be prepared and signed by a qualified licensed engineer unless otherwise
approved in advance by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.114 PERMIT ISSUANCE, DENIAL, OR DETERMINATION THAT PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The POTW shall evaluate the application information furnished by a
user and may require additional information as necessary to complete and
properly review the application. No action shall be taken by the Village
Manager on an application (and the 120-day review period as provided by this
division shall not begin to run) until the application is determined to be
complete by the Village Manager. Within 120 days after the submission of a
complete application (unless the POTW and the applicant agree to extend this
time period), the POTW shall either issue a user permit subject to terms and
conditions provided by this chapter, deny the application, or determine that a
permit is not required as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A user permit may be denied by the Village Manager:
      (1)   If the POTW determines that the proposed discharge, or continued
discharge, will not comply with all applicable standards and requirements of
this chapter;
      (2)   If the user refuses, fails, or declines to accept the terms and
conditions of a permit as proposed to be issued by the Village Manager;
      (3)   For any reason that would support a suspension or revocation of the
permit as provided by this chapter;
      (4)   If the POTW determines that the POTW cannot adequately or
reasonably treat the user’s discharge (due to insufficient capacity, the
quality or quantity of the pollutants, available POTW resources, etc.);
      (5)   If the POTW is not satisfied that the user has not taken all
reasonable steps to prevent, minimize, or reduce pollutants in the user’s
discharge;
      (6)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the POTW, singly or in
combination with other pollutants, for which there is a reasonable potential,
as determined by the Village Manager, to:
         (a)   Not meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (b)   Interfere with the operation of the POTW;
         (c)   Pass through the POTW into the receiving waters or the
atmosphere;
         (d)   Inhibit or disrupt the POTW’s processing, use, or disposal of
sludge;
         (e)   Cause health or safety problems for POTW workers; or
         (f)   Result in a violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit or of other
applicable laws and regulations;
      (7)   If the POTW determines that there is not, or will not be,
sufficient capacity available (in both wastewater volume and strength) for a
proposed discharge in all downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors, and
force mains, including, but not limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat,
and dispose of BOD, TSS, or similar materials as required by applicable local,
state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations; or
      (8)   For any other reason determined by the Village Manager as necessary
and appropriate to protect the POTW or to meet the purposes and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.115 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   User permits shall be subject to all provisions of this chapter and
all other applicable regulations, user charges, and fees established by the
Village Manager. Further, user permits incorporate by reference all provisions,
regulations, and requirements of the ordinance without setting them forth in
full therein.
   (B)   Non-domestic user permits shall at a minimum include all of the
conditions required by State Administrative Code 323.2306(a)(iii). In addition,
user permits shall include any conditions determined reasonably necessary by
the Village Manager to prevent pass through or interference, to protect the
quality of the receiving waters, to protect worker health and safety, to
facilitate POTW sludge management and disposal, to protect ambient air quality,
to protect against damage to the POTW, or to otherwise achieve the objectives
of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum concentration, mass, or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties.
      (3)   Requirements for installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, or similar requirements
designed to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the treatment works.
      (4)   Development and implementation of slug discharge control plans,
spill control plans, or other special conditions, including additional
management practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental or
unanticipated discharges.
      (5)   Requirements for installation, maintenance, repair, calibration and
operation of inspection and sampling facilities and discharge flow monitors.
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which shall include, but are
not limited to, sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and
standards for tests, and reporting schedules.
      (7)   Compliance schedules.
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Village Manager and affording the
POTW access to those records.
      (10)   Requirements for notifying the POTW if self-monitoring indicates a
violation as provided by §
51.143, and for repeat sampling and analysis as provided by §
51.176.
      (11)   Requirements for notification of any new introductions of
wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater being introduced into the POTW, including listed or
characteristic hazardous waste for which the user has submitted initial
notification under R323.2310(15) of the State Administrative Code.
      (12)   Requirements for the notification of any change in the
manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the permittee.
      (13)   Requirements for notification of accidental or slug discharges, or
discharges that exceed a discharge prohibition.
      (14)   Requirements for notification and need for prior approval from the
Village Manager for any proposed change in a sampling location.
      (15)   A statement regarding limitations on transferability of the
permit.
      (16)   A statement of the duration of the permit.
      (17)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, including those that become effective during the
term of the permit.
      (18)   Requirements for a written certification signed by the permittee
that acknowledges that the permittee has read and fully understands all terms
and conditions of the permit; and acknowledges that the permittee accepts all
of the terms and conditions of the permit as written and accepts full
responsibility for complying with the permit as approved.
      (19)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of discharge limitations, pretreatment standards and requirements,
and compliance schedules.
      (20)   Requirements regarding development by a user of a pollutant
prevention, minimization, or reduction plan (e.g., for mercury or PCBs) and/or
requirements regarding use of best management practices to control, contain,
treat, prevent, or reduce the discharge of wastewater, pollutants, or other
substances to the POTW, to implement the discharge prohibitions or limits as
provided by §
51.090, or otherwise meet the purposes, policies, and objectives of this
chapter.
      (21)   Requirements regarding development by a user of a sampling plan
for one or more pollutant parameters to be approved by the Village Manager.
      (22)   Terms, conditions, and requirements for a SAL if a SAL has been
approved for the user.
      (23)   Other conditions as determined necessary by the Village Manager to
ensure compliance with this chapter and other applicable laws, rules, and
regulations. If the POTW determines that a user is discharging substances of a
quality, in a quantity, or in a location that may cause problems to the POTW or
the receiving stream, the POTW has the authority to develop and enforce
effluent limits applicable to the user’s discharge.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.116 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A user permit may be modified by the Village Manager at any time and
for any reason determined necessary by the Village Manager to assure compliance
with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations, including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements, or other applicable requirement of law
or regulation.
      (2)   Material or substantial changes or additions to the permittee’s
operations, processes, or the
character or quality of discharge that were not considered in drafting or
issuing the existing permit. It shall be the duty of a user to request an
application form and to apply for a modification of the permit within 30 days
of any such change(s). The POTW may modify a permit on its own initiative based
on its findings or upon reasonable cause to believe that any such change(s) has
occurred or threatens to occur.
      (3)   A change in any condition in the permittee’s discharge, facility,
production, or operations, or in the POTW, that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permittee’s discharge to assure
compliance with applicable laws, regulations or the POTW’s NPDES permit.
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to collection or treatment systems; the POTW’s processing, use, or disposal of
sludge; POTW personnel; or the receiving waters.
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the user’s permit.
      (6)   Misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts
in the permit application or in any required report or notice.
      (7)   Revision of, or a grant of a variance from, applicable categorical
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13.
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit.
      (9)   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a
new owner or operator.
      (10)   To add or revise a compliance schedule for the permittee.
      (11)   To reflect changes or revisions in the POTW’s NPDES permit.
      (12)   To ensure POTW compliance with applicable sludge management
requirements promulgated by the EPA.
      (13)   To incorporate any new or revised requirements resulting from
reevaluation of the POTW’s local limits.
      (14)   To incorporate a request for modification by the permittee, as
determined appropriate by the Village Manager and provided the request does not
create a violation of any applicable requirement, standard, law, rule, or
regulation.
   (B)   The permittee shall be informed of any changes in the permit at least
30 days prior to the effective date of the change, unless a shorter time is
determined necessary by the Village Manager to meet applicable laws, to protect
human health or the environment, or to facilitate an enforcement action.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.117 PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   Non-domestic user permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years, subject to modification, reissuance, suspension, or
revocation as provided by this section. At the sole discretion of the Village
Manager, a non-domestic user permit may be issued for a period less than five
years and may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (B)   General user permits may be issued for any time period determined
appropriate by the Village Manager, subject to modification, reissuance,
suspension, or revocation as provided by this section.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.118 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   (A)   To apply for reissuance of an existing user permit, a user must submit
a complete permit application to the POTW accompanied by payment of an
application fee at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
permit (or at least 180 days prior to the expiration of a five-year permit).
The application shall be submitted in a form prescribed by the Village Manager.
It shall be the responsibility of the user to make a timely application for
reissuance.
   (B)   All user permits issued to a particular user are void upon the
issuance of a new user permit to that user.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.119 CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS.
   (A)   An expired user permit will continue to be effective until the permit
is reissued only if:
      (1)   The user has submitted a complete permit application at least 90
days prior to the expiration date of the user’s existing permit (or at least
180 days prior to the expiration date of a five-year permit); and
      (2)   The failure to reissue the permit, prior to expiration of the
previous permit, is not due to any act or failure to act on the part of the
user.
   (B)   In all other cases, discharge to the POTW following expiration of a
permit is unlawful.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.120 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   User permits may be suspended or permanently revoked by the Village
Manager for any reason determined necessary by the Village Manager to assure
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the POTW’s NPDES permit, or
other applicable laws and regulations, including, without limitation, any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports or any other report,
notification, or submission.
      (2)   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
      (3)   Failure to allow timely and reasonable access to the permittee’s
premises and records by representatives of the POTW for purposes authorized by
this chapter, including, without limitation, inspection or monitoring.
      (4)   Failure to meet effluent limitations.
      (5)   Failure to pay fines or penalties.
      (6)   Failure to pay sewer charges.
      (7)   Failure to pay permit fees.
      (8)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
      (9)   Failure to comply with any term or condition of the permit, an
order, the requirements of this chapter, or any final judicial order entered
with respect thereto.
      (10)   Failure to comply with any reporting or notice requirement.
      (11)   Failure to disclose fully all relevant facts in the permit
application or during the permit issuance process, or misrepresentation of any
relevant fact at any time.
      (12)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the user permit
application.
      (13)   As determined by the Village Manager, the discharge permitted by
the permit has a reasonable potential to endanger human health or the
environment and the threat can be abated only by suspension or revocation of
the permit.
   (B)   Upon suspension or revocation of a permit, a user shall immediately
terminate its discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence
discharge without further authorization from the Village Manager as provided by
this chapter. The POTW may reissue a revoked permit upon showing satisfactory
to the Village Manager that the permittee has corrected the violation or
condition that led to the revocation. A person who has had a permit revoked may
apply for a new permit.
   (C)   A person’s taking or failure to take any of the actions provided by
division (A) shall also constitute a violation of this chapter and subject the
person to enforcement action in addition to and independent of user permit
suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.121 LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   A user permit is issued to a specific user for discharge from a
specific facility and operation and shall not be assigned or transferred or
sold to a new or different owner, operator, user, discharger, facility, or
premises, or to a new or changed facility or operation, without the prior
written approval of the Village Manager. If the transfer of a permit is
approved, any succeeding transferee permittee must also comply with the terms
and conditions of the existing permit. The Village Manager may approve (but
shall not be required to approve) the transfer of a permit only if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The transferor (permittee) shall give at least 60 days advance
notice to the Village Manager of the proposed transfer of the permit (unless a
shorter notice period is approved by the Village Manager in advance). The
notice shall include a written certification signed by the proposed transferee
that:
         (a)   States that the transferee has no present intent to change the
facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
         (c)   Acknowledges that the transferee has read and fully understands
all terms and conditions of the permit; and
         (d)   Acknowledges that the transferee accepts all of the terms and
conditions of the permit as written and accepts full responsibility for
complying with the existing permit if the transfer is approved.
      (2)   As of the date of the proposed transfer, there are no outstanding
violations of the permit, and there are no unpaid charges, fines, penalties, or
fees of any kind due to the POTW from the transferor or the transferee related
to use of the POTW.
      (3)   Except as to the identity of the new discharger (the transferee),
the application materials for the permit to be transferred as originally filed
by the transferor, as well as the terms and conditions of the permit itself,
are completely accurate with respect to, and fully applicable to, the
discharge, facilities, and activities of the transferee.
      (4)   The permit transfer fee as established by the Village Manager has
been paid to the village.
   (B)   If the transfer of a permit is approved and the permit transfer fee
has been paid to the village, the Village Manager shall make the necessary
minor modifications to the permit to show the transferee as the permittee, and
a copy of the permit shall be provided to the transferee for signature and
certification by the transferee as provided by §
51.150. The transferor (permittee) shall remain liable for any discharges to
the POTW from the facility (along with any other persons actually discharging
from the facility to the POTW) until a transfer of the permit has been approved
as provided by this section.
   (C)   This section is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, limit
in any way the transfer of ownership of the property involved.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a user permit that does not comply with the
requirements of this section renders the permit void as of the date of the
invalid transfer.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.122 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Users shall furnish to the POTW any available information that the POTW
requests to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking, and
reissuing, or terminating a user permit, to determine compliance with a permit,
to determine whether a permit is required, or for any purpose as otherwise
determined necessary by the Village Manager. Users shall also, upon request,
furnish to the POTW copies of any records required to be kept by a permit. The
information and records requested by the Village Manager shall be provided by
the user to the POTW within 24 hours of the request, unless an alternative time
frame is specified by the Village Manager when making the request or unless the
POTW allows additional time for the user to submit the requested information
based on a showing by the user of good cause for any delay. The user’s failure
to submit the requested information to the POTW within 24 hours (or within any
alternate time period approved by the Village Manager as provided by this
section) shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.123 PERMIT APPEALS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an informal appeal to the
Village Manager (or, if applicable, a subsequent formal appeal to the
Wastewater Board of Appeals (“WBA”)) of any final decision made by the Village
Manager in connection with issuing or implementing a user permit shall be
governed by §§
51.340 through
51.345. An appealing party must specify in its notice of appeal the action of
the POTW being appealed and the grounds for the appeal. If a particular permit
provision is objected to, the notice of appeal must specify the reasons for the
objection, and the alternative provision, if any, sought to be placed in the
permit. The effectiveness of a permit or any final decision made by the Village
Manager shall not be stayed pending a decision by the Village Manager (or, if
formally appealed to the WBA, pending a decision of the WBA). If formerly
appealed to the WBA, after considering the record on appeal including any
statements provided by the Village Manager in response to the appeal, the WBA
determines that a permit or any provision of a permit should be reconsidered,
the WBA shall remand the matter to the Village Manager for further action as
determined appropriate by the WBA. Specific provisions of a permit that are
remanded by the WBA for reconsideration by the Village Manager shall be stayed
pending further final action taken by the Village Manager as required by the
decision of the WBA. A decision of the Village Manager not timely appealed to
the WBA shall be considered final administrative action for purposes of
judicial review. A decision of the WBA not to remand any matter shall be
considered final administrative action for purposes of judicial review.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.124 PERMITS NOT STAYED.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by §
51.123, no action taken or request filed by any permittee shall operate to stay
the effect of any permit or of any provision, term, or condition of any permit,
including, without limitation, a request for permit modification, reissuance,
or transfer, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.125 PERMIT FEES.
   User permit fees shall be established, paid, and collected as provided by
this subchapter, §§
51.390 through
51.394, and §§
51.410 through
51.415
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** REPORTING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 51.140 REPORTS BY NON-DOMESTIC USERS REGARDING CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports. Within 180 days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final
administrative decision made upon a category determination submission under
R323.2311(2) of the State Administrative Code, whichever is later, an existing
non-domestic user subject to the categorical pretreatment standards and that
currently discharges or is scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit a
report to the POTW as required by R323.2310(2) of the State Administrative
Code. At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources and
sources that become non-domestic users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical pretreatment standard shall submit the reports to the
POTW as required by R323.2310(2) of the State Administrative Code. Any changes
to the information required to be submitted by a non-domestic user pursuant to
R323.2310(2)(a) through (e) of the State Administrative Code shall be submitted
by the user to the POTW within 60 days of when the user becomes aware of the
change.
   (B)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the discharge to the POTW, any non-domestic user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit the reports to
the POTW required by R323.2310(3) of the State Administrative Code.
   (C)   Periodic reports on continued compliance. Any non-domestic user
subject to a categorical pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of
the categorical pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the public sewer or POTW, shall submit the
periodic reports to the POTW required by R323.2310(4) of the State
Administrative Code. These periodic reports shall be submitted at least once
every six months (during the months of June and December unless alternate
months are approved by the Village Manager), unless required more frequently by
the applicable pretreatment standard, by the Village Manager, or by the state.
The reports shall include a record of all average and maximum daily flows
during the prior six month reporting period, except that the POTW may require
more detailed reporting of flows. All flows shall be reported on the basis of
actual measurement unless the POTW agrees, due to cost or non-feasibility, to
accept verifiable estimates of the average and maximum flows estimated using
techniques approved by the Village Manager. The combined wastestream formula
may be used for reporting purposes after the initial information has been
furnished to the POTW, provided there has been no change to the elements
composing the combined wastestream. The results of sampling of the discharge
and analysis of pollutants appearing in the report shall be cross-referenced to
the related flow and mass to determine compliance with National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards. In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires
compliance with a best management practice (or pollution prevention
alternative), the user shall submit documentation required by the Village
Manager or the Pretreatment Standard necessary to determine the compliance
status of the user.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.141 REPORTS REQUIRED FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS NOT SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All non-domestic users not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards shall submit to the POTW periodic reports providing information
regarding the quality and quantity of wastewater and pollutants discharged into
the POTW (including, without limitation, information regarding the nature,
concentration (or mass), and flow of the discharge). These reports shall be
based on sampling and analysis performed in the period covered by the report in
accordance with the sampling, analysis, and monitoring requirements provided by
§§
51.170 through
51.181 (except that historical sampling data shall not be used for the periodic
compliance reports required by this section).
   (B)   For significant industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at
least once every six months for the preceding six months (during the months of
June and December unless alternate months are specified by the Village
Manager), unless required more frequently by the Village Manager.
   (C)   If required by the Village Manager for non-domestic users other than
significant industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at least once
every 12 months for the preceding 12 months (during the month of October unless
an alternate month is specified by the Village Manager), unless required more
frequently by the Village Manager.
   (D)   The reports for all non-domestic users shall be submitted on forms
provided by (or in a format required by) the POTW, and shall include, without
limitation, the volume of wastewater; the concentration of pollutants; the
names of all person(s) responsible for operating and maintaining any
pretreatment equipment, pretreatment processes, or responsible for wastewater
management at the user’s facilities, with a brief description of each person’s
duties; information regarding materials or substances that may cause
interference or pass through; and any other information deemed necessary by the
Village Manager to assess and assure compliance with applicable discharge
requirements or to safeguard the operation of the POTW.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.142 NOTICE BY USER OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   All non-domestic users, whether or not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards, shall notify the POTW immediately by telephone of all discharges by
the user that could cause problems to the POTW, including, without limitation,
accidental discharges, slug loadings, discharges of a non-routine, episodic
nature, non-customary batch discharge, or discharges that exceed a discharge
prohibition or limitation provided by this chapter. The notification shall
include available information regarding the location of the discharge, its
volume, duration, constituents, loading and concentrations, corrective actions
taken and required, and other available information as necessary to determine
what impact the discharge may have on the POTW. A detailed written report
providing the same and any additional available information (including
specifying the measures that will be taken by the user to prevent similar
future discharges) shall also be provided by the user to be received by the
Village Manager within five days of the incident.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.143 NOTICE BY USER OF VIOLATION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   If sampling performed by a non-domestic user indicates a violation, the user
shall notify the POTW within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation (and
shall comply with other applicable requirements provided by §
51.176 regarding repeat sampling and analysis).
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.144 NOTICE BY USER OF CHANGED DISCHARGE OR CHANGE IN USER STATUS.
   (A)   A non-domestic user shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in its discharge,
or of any facility expansion, production increase, or process modifications
that could result in a substantial change in the volume or character of
pollutants in its discharge.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROMPTLY means as soon as reasonably
possible, but in no event less than 60 days before the change.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE includes, without
limitation, any of the following:
      (1)   The discharge of any amount of a pollutant not identified in the
user’s permit application or in the permit issued.
      (2)   An increase in concentration (or degree) of any pollutant that
exceeds 10% of the concentration (or degree) for the pollutant as indicated in
any report required under §§
51.140 or
51.141.
      (3)   An increase in discharge volume that exceeds 20% of the volume as
indicated in any report required under §§
51.140 or
51.141.
      (4)   Any increase in the amount of any hazardous wastes discharged,
including, without limitation, the hazardous wastes for which the user has
submitted initial notification under §
51.145.
      (5)   The discharge of any groundwaters purged for a removal or remedial
action.
      (6)   The discharge of any pollutants that are present in the discharge
due to infiltration.
      (7)   A change in discharge that may convert a non-domestic user into a
significant industrial user, or a non-domestic user into a categorical user.
      (8)   A change in discharge that would cause a change in the categorical
standards that apply to the user.
   (D)   In determining whether to accept any changed discharge, or, if so,
under what conditions, the POTW shall evaluate the changed discharge pursuant
to the general and specific discharge prohibitions under §
51.090 and other applicable provisions of this chapter. The user may be
required to submit such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the
changed condition, including the submission of a user permit application.
   (E)   No user shall implement the planned changed conditions until and
unless the Village Manager or his/her designee has responded to the user’s
notice.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed to authorize a discharge that
exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation provided by this chapter or a
permit.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.145 NOTICE BY USER REGARDING WASTES THAT ARE OTHERWISE HAZARDOUS.
   Any non-domestic user that discharges to the POTW a substance that, if
disposed of other than by discharge to the POTW, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. Part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the State
Hazardous Waste Management Act (Public Act 451, Part 111 of 1994, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq.) shall notify the Village Manager, the U.S.
EPA Region V Waste Management Division Village Manager, and the state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge as required by R323.2310(15) of the State
Administrative Code.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.146 NOTICE BY USER REGARDING INSTALLATION OF NEW PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Within five days after completing installation of new pretreatment
facilities, the user shall notify the Village Manager in writing of the time
and date when it intends to commence operation of the new facilities, and the
identity of the person who will conduct any tests to be performed. The
pretreatment facilities shall not be placed in regular operation until adequate
tests have been conducted to establish that the discharges will comply with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations. Upon
prior written request by the Village Manager, the user shall allow a
representative of the POTW to observe the tests at the time they are conducted.
The cost of the tests shall be paid by the user.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.147 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   (A)   At least 60 days before commencing or changing a discharge, each of
the following persons shall submit a notice of intent to the POTW for approval
by the Village Manager:
      (1)   A person proposing to discharge any non-domestic wastewater not
previously reported to the POTW.
      (2)   A person taking possession or control of an existing facility that
discharges or may discharge process wastewater into the POTW.
      (3)   A person constructing a new facility that will discharge process
wastewater into the POTW.
      (4)   A person commencing or modifying a discharge of hazardous wastes
that requires reporting under §
51.145.
   (B)   The notice of intent shall be submitted in writing on a form provided
by the Village Manager and shall be accompanied by a payment of any fees
established by the village. It shall include sufficient information to allow
the Village Manager to evaluate the effect of the proposed discharge on the
POTW and operations and to assure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.148 OTHER REPORTS AND NOTICES REQUIRED BY THIS SECTION OR BY OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Users shall comply with all other reporting or notice requirements as
provided by this chapter, by any notice, order or permit issued under this
chapter, or as required by any other applicable law or regulation, including,
without limitation, the reporting and notice requirements in connection with
accidental discharge (§§
51.200 through
51.208), upset (§§
51.220 and
51.221), bypass (§§
51.240 through
51.243), and any other reports or notice requirements determined necessary by
the Village Manager to assess and assure compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.149 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL REQUIRED REPORTS, NOTIFICATIONS, AND
APPLICATIONS.
   All reports, notifications, and applications submitted by a user to the POTW
as required by this chapter (or by any order, permit, or determination issued
or made pursuant to this chapter) shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   All reports, notifications, applications, and requests for information
required by this chapter shall be based upon data obtained through appropriate
sampling and analysis performed during the period covered by the report,
notification, application, or request. The data shall be representative of
conditions occurring during the applicable reporting period. If a pretreatment
standard requires compliance with a best management practice or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Village Manager or the applicable standard to determine compliance with the
standard.
   (B)   If a user monitors any pollutant (or measures flow) more frequently
than required by this chapter or a user permit, using the monitoring, sampling
and analytical procedures as required by §
51.171, the results of all such additional monitoring shall be included in any
report or notification submitted pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The Village Manager may require that reports, notifications, and other
required documents and data be submitted in a standardized format, as specified
by the Village Manager.
   (D)   If the POTW, instead of a user, collects all of the information,
including flow data, required for a report required by §§
51.140 or
51.141, the Village Manager, in the Village Manager’s sole discretion, may
waive the requirement that the report be submitted by the user.
   (E)   The reports, notifications, and other documents and data required to
be submitted or maintained by this chapter shall be subject to all of the
provisions as specified by R323.2310(13) of the State Administrative Code.
   (F)   Written reports, notifications, and applications will be deemed to
have been submitted to the POTW, unless otherwise specified by the Village
Manager, as follows:
      (1)   If mailed, on the date postmarked.
      (2)   The date of receipt of the report shall govern for reports,
notifications, or applications which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a
mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, including, but not
limited to, reports, notifications, or applications that are hand- delivered,
faxed, or emailed.
      (3)   Written reports, notifications, and applications may be submitted
to the POTW by fax or email (or by any means other than mail or hand-delivery)
only with the prior approval of the POTW on a case-by-case basis. The report or
notification shall be sent to the fax number or email address specified by the
Village Manager.
   (G)   All written reports, notifications, and applications submitted by mail
or hand-delivery shall be sent or delivered to the address stated in the user
permit, or if there is no user permit, then to the following address:
      Village of Three Oaks WWSL
      611 E. Gardener St.
      Three Oaks, MI 49345
      Attn: _____________
   (H)   (1)   If notice by telephone or fax is required or otherwise
authorized by the Village Manager, such notice shall be made to the following
numbers, as appropriate:
         (1)   WWSL: (616) 887-8711 (M-F).
         (2)   Operator emergency number: 24 hours/seven days.
         (3)   Operator emergency number (alternate): 24 hours/seven days.
         (4)   WWSL fax: 24 hours/seven days.
      (2)   Required oral emergency or accidental spill or slug notifications
shall not be left on voicemail or sent by email.
   (I)   Failure to provide the reports, notifications, and applications
required by this chapter constitutes an independent violation of this chapter.
However, compliance with applicable reporting and notification requirements
shall not relieve a user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability that
may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such report or notification relieve a
user of any fines, penalties, or other liability that may be imposed by
applicable laws or regulations. Further, the reporting and notification
requirements required by this chapter shall not be construed to authorize a
discharge that exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation under this chapter
or other applicable laws or regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.150 SIGNATURE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All written reports, notifications, and applications required by this
chapter shall be signed and certified as follows:
   (A)   Required signatures. The reports, notifications, and applications
shall be signed by an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the user as defined in §
51.002.
   (B)   Required certification. The reports, notifications, and applications
shall include the following certification statement: “I certify under penalty
of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction
or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified
personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my
inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons
directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am
aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information,
including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (C)   Exception. If the POTW elects to perform instead of the user all or
any portion of the sampling or analysis otherwise required for a report or
notification, the user will not be required to comply with the certification
requirements for the sampling and analysis (or portion thereof) performed by
the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** SAMPLING, ANALYSIS, AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 51.170 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides the sampling, analysis, and monitoring requirements
applicable to users of the POTW. It does not apply to domestic users except as
may be determined appropriate in specific cases by the Village Manager. All
users required by this chapter (or by any permit, order, decision, or
determination issued or made under this chapter) to sample, monitor, and
analyze their discharges to the POTW shall do so according to the minimum
requirements provided by this section. Additional or more restrictive sampling,
analytical, or monitoring requirements may be required for a particular user by
a permit, order, decision, or determination issued or made under this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.171 SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES AND PROCEDURES.
   All sampling, measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
discharges to the POTW shall be performed in accordance with the procedures
approved by the U.S. EPA contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136. If, as determined by
the Village Manager, the sampling and analytical techniques contained in 40
C.F.R. Part 136 are not available, do not apply to the discharge or pollutants
in question, are not appropriate under the circumstances for application to the
discharge or pollutants in question, or where one or more alternate techniques
are available under 40 C.F.R. Part 136, sampling and analysis shall be
performed using validated sampling and analytical methods and procedures
approved or required by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.172 SAMPLING FREQUENCY.
   Users shall sample their discharges to the POTW at a frequency necessary to
assess and assure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, any permit
or order issued pursuant to this chapter, all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements, other applicable state and federal laws and regulations, or
as otherwise determined necessary by the Village Manager consistent with the
purposes and intent of this chapter. At a minimum, all significant industrial
users shall sample their effluent two times per year (once every six months) or
as often as provided by their permits, whichever is more frequent, and report
the results to the POTW. Each discharge point to the POTW shall be sampled and
reported individually.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.173 SAMPLE TYPES.
   Where representative samples are required to be taken for facilities for
which historical sampling data does not exist (or if otherwise requested by the
Village Manager), a user shall take a minimum of four grab samples for pH,
temperature, cyanide, phenols (T), residual chlorine, oil and grease, sulfide,
and volatile organics (and any other parameters designated by the Village
Manager), unless a greater number of grab samples is required in advance by the
Village Manager. For facilities for which historical sampling data is
available, or under other circumstances determined appropriate by the Village
Manager, the Village Manager may authorize a lower minimum number of grab
samples (except that historical data shall not be used for periodic compliance
reports as required by § 51.141). In all cases, users shall take the minimum
number of grab samples determined necessary by the Village Manager to assess
and assure compliance by users with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. Grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum discharge limits. For all other
pollutants and sampling, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through
flow-proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the Village Manager. Where
time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the
Village Manager, the samples must be representative of the discharge and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented in the industrial
user file for that facility or facilities. Using protocols (including
appropriate preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and appropriate EPA
guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be
composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and
sulfides, the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for
volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the
laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by the Village Manager, as appropriate.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.174 SAMPLING METHODS, EQUIPMENT, AND LOCATION.
   (A)   General. A user shall use the sampling methods, sampling equipment,
and sampling location specified by the user’s user permit, or, in the absence
of a permit, as otherwise required by the Village Manager.
   (B)   Contaminated groundwater. For discharges to the POTW from remedial
actions related to leaking underground storage tanks or other sources of
contaminated groundwater, the Village Manager may require the following
analyses or such other analyses as determined appropriate by the Village
Manager:
      (1)   Samples shall be analyzed for benzene, ethylbenzene, toluene, and
xylene using the latest methods approved by U.S. EPA.
      (2)   For total petroleum hydrocarbons, samples shall be analyzed
according to the latest methods approved by U.S. EPA.
   (C)   The Village Manager may require continuous monitoring for pH or other
parameters.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.175 COST OF MONITORING, SAMPLING, AND ANALYSIS.
   All required monitoring, taking of samples, and sample analyses, whether
performed by the Village Manager or by a user, including, but not limited to,
the costs or fees associated with inspection or surveillance, shall be at the
sole cost of the user. For users with more than one outfall, each outfall
monitored shall be charged separately.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.176 SELF-MONITORING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, self-monitoring shall be
conducted by each non-domestic user to ensure compliance with all applicable
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   A user performing its own sampling shall submit the samples for
analysis to a laboratory (which may include the user’s own laboratory) approved
by the Village Manager.
   (C)   A user performing its own sampling or monitoring shall record and
maintain for all samples and monitoring (including any sampling and monitoring
associated with best management practices) the date, exact location (which
shall match sampling locations identified in the user’s user permit, as
applicable), exact time (including start time and stop time) and type and
method of sampling or measurement, and the name(s) of person(s) taking the
samples or measurements; sampler programming information; the sample
preservation techniques or procedures used; the full chain-of-custody for each
sample; the dates the analyses were performed and completed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques and methods used; the detection limits and/
or quantification level used per parameter; quality assurance/quality control
(QA/QC) procedures used and QA/QC data; and the results of the analyses.
   (D)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall
notify the Village Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
user, the POTW must perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless the POTW
notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the repeat
sampling and analysis. The user shall not be required to resample if:
      (1)   The POTW performs sampling at the user at a frequency of at least
once per month; or
      (2)   The POTW performs sampling at the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user or the POTW
receives the results of the sampling that indicates the violation.
   (E)   If a user uses its own laboratory for sample analysis, the Village
Manager may require the user to send split samples to an independent laboratory
at a frequency specified by the Village Manager as a quality control check.
   (F)   Users required to do monthly sampling shall submit sample results to
the Village Manager by the fifteenth day of the following month, unless
specified otherwise in the user’s user permit.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.177 SAMPLING AND ANALYSES PERFORMED BY POTW.
   (A)   The sampling and analysis required by this chapter may be performed by
the Village Manager instead of the user, as determined necessary by the Village
Manager for purposes of this chapter. The POTW shall provide the user with
copies of analytical results prepared by the Village Manager. If the results of
any sampling and analysis performed by the Village Manager instead of the user
show that a pretreatment standard has been violated, the POTW shall provide the
user with copies of the analytical results within ten days after the results
are available.
   (B)   If the POTW performs the required sampling and analysis for a user,
the user shall pay a sampling fee to the POTW to fully reimburse the POTW for
the sampling, including administrative and overhead costs. The POTW may
contract with an independent firm to perform the sampling and analysis and the
user shall fully reimburse the POTW for amounts paid by the Village Manager to
the independent firm.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.178 SPLIT SAMPLES AND SAMPLE RESULTS.
   (A)   If requested by the Village Manager, the POTW shall be provided with
splits of any sample taken by a user. The user shall provide splits to the POTW
at no cost to the POTW.
   (B)   If requested by a user prior to the collection of a sample of the
user’s discharge, the POTW shall leave a portion of the sample of the discharge
taken from any sampling point on or adjacent to the premises for the user’s
independent analysis.
   (C)   In cases of disputes arising over split samples, the portion taken and
analyzed by the Village Manager shall be controlling unless proven invalid. The
burden of proving the POTW’s results invalid shall be on the user and at the
user’s sole cost.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.179 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND CALIBRATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A user who performs self-monitoring shall contract with an independent
company (unless the requirement to use an independent company is waived in
advance by the Village Manager as determined appropriate by the Village
Manager) to maintain, repair, and calibrate the sampling and flow measurement
equipment and instruments used to monitor the user.
   (B)   The maintenance, repair, and calibration shall be performed as often
as necessary to ensure that monitoring data is accurate and representative (but
in no event less frequently than twice in a calendar year at reasonable
intervals), consistent with the accepted capability of the type of equipment
used, and shall be at the sole cost of the user.
   (C)   A user shall keep a complete and accurate written record of all
calibrations, inspections and maintenance done (including, without limitation,
the date and time of the activity, a description of what was done and the
methods used, the names of persons conducting the activity, and any required or
recommended follow-up). The record shall also include a description of all
problems discovered regarding the equipment, whether in response to a regularly
scheduled inspection, or otherwise.
   (D)   The POTW, in any event, may inspect and test a user’s sampling and
flow measurement equipment and instruments at all times.
   (E)   In no case shall a user’s failure to keep its equipment, instruments,
and facilities in good working order constitute grounds for the user to claim
that sample results are not representative of its discharge.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.180 REQUIRED SAMPLING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES.
   (A)   The POTW may require any user to install suitable control structures
(such as sampling manholes or sampling vaults) and necessary measuring and
sampling devices (including automatic devices) to facilitate the observation,
sampling, and measurement of the quantity, composition, and concentrations of
discharges to the POTW. The POTW may require the user to install control
structures and measuring and sampling devices at every discharge point and/or
outfall. Further, multiple separate and discrete building sewers, control
structures, and measuring and sampling devices may be required for a single
user, premises, building, facility, or user, as determined necessary by the
Village Manager. The structures and devices shall be maintained at all times in
a safe, clean, and proper operating condition at the sole expense of the user.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the control structure to allow
accurate monitoring, measuring, sampling, and preparation of samples for
analysis, as determined necessary by the Village Manager. At a minimum, all
sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or structure with an
opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal diameter of no
less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording, and sampling
equipment as required by the Village Manager to assure compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction for safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the verbal or written request of the POTW and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be borne solely by the user.
   (D)   The location and complexity of the required control structure or
devices may vary with sampling requirements determined necessary by the Village
Manager to protect the POTW and to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
   (E)   The required sampling structures and devices shall be constructed and
installed at the user’s sole expense in accordance with plans submitted to the
POTW, and in compliance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Users shall submit to the POTW plans and specifications for
construction or modification of monitoring facilities at least 30 days before
the proposed commencement of construction or modification. If a user constructs
or modifies monitoring facilities before POTW approval or without an inspection
during construction and the POTW determines that the monitoring facilities are
not acceptable, then the user shall at its cost reconstruct or modify the
monitoring facilities according to the requirements of the POTW. Construction
shall be completed within 90 days following written notification by the Village
Manager, or within such other shorter or longer time period specified by the
Village Manager as required by the particular circumstances to meet the
requirements of this chapter. The structures and devices shall be operated and
maintained by the user at the user’s sole expense so as to be safe and
accessible to POTW personnel at all times and so as to provide accurate and
representative monitoring data. If a user fails to install or maintain a
required structure or device, the POTW may do so and charge the costs to the
user. No person shall use a required control structure for any purpose other
than the sampling and monitoring activities specifically approved by the
Village Manager.
   (F)   The sampling structures and devices must be provided on the user’s
premises as approved by the Village Manager, but the POTW may, if it determines
that such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the user,
allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and
located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (G)   Samples shall be taken at a control structure approved by the Village
Manager. However, in the absence of a suitable control structure as required by
this section, samples shall be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities, if pretreatment facilities exist, or immediately downstream from
the regulated process, if no pretreatment facilities exist. If other
wastewaters are mixed with a regulated process wastestream prior to
pretreatment, the user must measure the flows and concentrations necessary to
allow use of the combined wastestream formula under R323.2311(7) of the State
Administrative Code or other methods required by the Village Manager to
evaluate compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (H)   No user shall change monitoring points or monitoring methods without
first notifying and receiving the approval of the Village Manager. The Village
Manager shall not approve any change in a user’s monitoring point or points
that would allow the user to substitute dilution for adequate treatment to
achieve compliance with applicable standards.
   (I)   A user shall allow the POTW access to all sampling and monitoring
facilities as provided by §
51.310.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.181 DETERMINATION OF FLOW.
   The Village Manager may use any of the following methods to determine the
amount of wastewater flow discharged to the POTW from a user’s premises, as
determined appropriate by the Village Manager.
   (A)   If the premises are metered, the amount of water supplied to the
premises as shown by the water meter;
   (B)   If the premises are supplied with river water or water from private
wells, the Village Manager may estimate the amount of water supplied from such
sources based on the water, gas, or electric supply to the premises, or may
require that the water flow be measured using a certified meter approved by the
Village Manager;
   (C)   If the premises are used for an industrial or commercial purpose of
such a nature that the water supplied to the premises cannot be (or is not)
entirely discharged to the POTW, the Village Manager may estimate the amount of
wastewater discharged to the POTW based on the water, gas, or electric supply
to the premises;
   (D)   The Village Manager may determine the amount of wastewater discharged
to the POTW based on measurements and samples taken by the Village Manager from
a manhole installed by the owner of the premises, at the owner’s sole expense,
as required by the Village Manager under this chapter;
   (E)   The Village Manager may require a wastewater flow meter in a manhole
installed by the owner of the premises, at the owner’s sole expense; or
   (F)   The Village Manager may determine the amount of wastewater discharged
to the POTW from a premises using a combination of any of the above methods, or
using any other method determined appropriate by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES ****
§ 51.200 GENERAL.
   This subchapter sets forth minimum requirements for non-domestic users (and
any other users as required by the Village Manager) to prepare for, respond to,
and report, accidental discharges to the POTW. Additional or more restrictive
requirements may be required for particular users under a user permit, a slug
control plan, or by other applicable laws and regulations.
   (A)   Each non-domestic user shall provide and continuously maintain
protection from accidental discharge of materials or other substances regulated
by this chapter as provided by this section. The village may refuse to accept
current or proposed discharges from any user that fails to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protections required by this section shall be submitted to the POTW for
review prior to construction of the facilities. All existing users shall submit
the required plans and information with their permit applications or upon
request of the POTW. For new sources, facilities, and operating procedures to
provide the protections required by this section shall be approved by the
Village Manager prior to commencing discharge. No user who commences
discharging to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall be
permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge
facilities and procedures as provided by this section are in place and have
been approved by the Village Manager.
   (C)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of regulated materials or
substances shall be provided and maintained at the user’s cost and expense.
Review and approval by the Village Manager of plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Compliance with
the requirements of this section shall not relieve a user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability that may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, or for any other damage to persons or property, or for any other
liability that may be imposed under this chapter or under other applicable laws
and regulations.
   (D)   No change shall be made in any plan or procedure approved by the
Village Manager as provided by this section without the prior review and
approval of the POTW.
   (E)   All users shall notify the POTW in writing within five days of any
change in the information required to be provided to the POTW as set forth in
this subchapter (including, without limitation, information regarding the
person in charge of discharge operations, the description of chemicals stored,
used, or manufactured by the user, the description of user discharges, and the
description of user premises).
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.201 DESIGNATION OF PERSON IN CHARGE OF DISCHARGE OPERATIONS.
   Each non-domestic user shall designate at least one person to be in charge
of and responsible for the user’s discharges to the POTW, including
responsibility for maintaining pretreatment facilities and operations, if any,
and prevention of accidental discharges (PERSON IN CHARGE). The person so
designated shall be an individual with knowledge of all toxic wastes or
hazardous substances routinely or potentially generated by the user, and of all
process alterations that could, in any manner, increase or decrease normal
daily flow or waste strength to the POTW. The names of the person (or persons)
designated as provided by this section and a phone number where the person can
be reached for 24-hour contact shall be submitted by each user to the POTW.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.202 DESCRIPTION OF CHEMICALS STORED, USED, OR MANUFACTURED BY USER; USER
DISCHARGES; USER PREMISES.
   Unless the Village Manager determines that all of the following information
has already been appropriately provided to the POTW pursuant to other
requirements of this chapter, each non-domestic user shall:
   (A)   Catalog all chemicals stored, used, or manufactured by the user at the
user’s premises. The list of chemicals shall include specific chemical names
(not just manufacturer’s codes) and shall be provided to the POTW.
   (B)   Provide the POTW with a written description of the user’s discharge
practices, including an estimate of daily average flows, waste strengths, and
flow types, separated according to appropriate categories including process,
cooling, sanitary, etc.
   (C)   Provide to the POTW a detailed, scaled professionally prepared drawing
of the user’s plant building(s), including the location of pretreatment
equipment, process and chemical storage areas, waste storage areas, floor
drains located near process and storage areas, manhole or other control
structures, and sewer locations at the user’s point of discharge into the POTW.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.203 SEGREGATION OF WASTEWATERS REQUIRING PRETREATMENT.
   Non-domestic users shall segregate wastewaters requiring pretreatment
(including, without limitation, spent concentrates, toxics, and high strength
organic wastes) as necessary to prevent pollutants from interfering with or
passing through the POTW. All sludges generated by pretreatment shall be used
and disposed of only as permitted by applicable local, state, and federal laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.204 SECONDARY CONTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each non-domestic user must provide and maintain at the user’s sole
expense secondary spill containment structures (including diking, curbing, or
other appropriate structures) adequate to protect all floor drains from
accidental spills and discharges to the POTW of any pollutants or discharges
regulated by this chapter.
   (B)   The containment or curbing shall be sufficient to hold not less than
150% of the total process area tank volume and not less than 150% of liquid
polluting material stored or used unless a lesser containment area or alternate
control measures are approved in advance by the Village Manager.
   (C)   The containment area shall be constructed so that no liquid polluting
material can escape from the area by gravity through the building sewers,
drains, or otherwise directly or indirectly into the POTW. All floor drains
found within the containment area must be plugged and sealed.
   (D)   Spill troughs and sumps within process areas must discharge to
appropriate pretreatment tanks.
   (E)   Emergency containment shall also be provided for storage tanks that
may be serviced by commercial haulers and for chemical storage areas.
   (F)   Solid pollutants shall be located in security areas designed to
prevent the loss of the materials to the POTW.
   (G)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protection required by this section shall be submitted to the Village
Manager for review, and shall be approved by the Village Manager before
construction. Construction of approved containment for existing sources shall
be completed within the time period specified by the Village Manager.
   (H)   No new source shall be permitted to discharge to the POTW until
emergency containment facilities have been approved and constructed as required
by this section.
   (I)   The Village Manager may order a user to take interim measures for
emergency containment as determined necessary by the Village Manager under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.205 SUBMISSION OF POLLUTION INCIDENT PREVENTION PLAN.
   (A)   Each user required to develop a pollution incident prevention (PIP)
plan as provided by Part 5 of the Michigan Water Resources Commission Rules,
1979 A.C.R. §§ 323.1151 et seq., as amended (promulgated pursuant to Public Act
451, Part 31 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., as amended), shall
submit a copy of that plan to the Village Manager.
   (B)   The PIP plan shall be submitted to the Village Manager within 60 days
of the effective date of this chapter for an existing source, or 30 days prior
to the date of discharge for a new source.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.206 POSTING OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE INFORMATION.
   All non-domestic users shall post a clearly legible set of instructions in
the area where the user manages wastewater so that the applicable reporting and
notice requirements are made known and are available to the user’s employees.
In addition, all non-domestic users shall instruct their employees on the
applicable reporting and notice requirements of this section.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.207 NOTICE OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In the case of an accidental discharge, a user shall immediately
notify the POTW of the incident by telephone.
   (B)   The notification shall include the name of the person placing the
call, the name of the user, and all available information regarding the
location of the discharge, its volume, duration, constituents, loading and
concentrations, corrective actions taken and required, and other available
information as necessary to determine what impact the discharge may have on the
POTW.
   (C)   A detailed written report providing the same and any additional
available information (including specifying the measures that will be taken by
the user to prevent similar future discharges) shall also be provided by the
user to the Village Manager within five days of the incident.
   (D)   Providing notice of an accidental discharge shall not relieve a user
of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notice relieve a user of any fines, civil penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable
law.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.208 SLUG CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall prepare and implement an
individualized slug control plan to address notification, slug and/or spill
prevention, containment, spill cleanup, and employee training. Existing
significant industrial users shall submit a slug control plan to the Village
Manager for approval within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter. New
sources that are significant industrial users shall submit a slug control plan
to the Village Manager for approval before beginning to discharge. Upon written
notice from the Village Manager, non-domestic users that are not significant
industrial users may also be required to prepare and implement a slug control
plan, and the plan shall be submitted to the Village Manager for approval as
specified in the notice.
   (B)   Slug control plans must also be submitted for review and approval by
the Village Manager:
      (1)   As part of a user permit application and before the permit is
issued; and an updated plan may be required in connection with any permit
modification or reissuance; and
      (2)   The Village Manager may also require a new or updated plan before
constructing any new facilities.
   (C)   Approval of a slug control plan shall not relieve a user from
complying with laws and regulations governing handling of hazardous substances.
   (D)   All slug control plans shall contain at least the following elements:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   A description of stored chemicals, raw materials, and waste;
      (3)   The procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate any discharge
prohibition, limitation or requirement under this chapter, and procedures for
follow-up written notification within five days of the discharge;
      (4)   The procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and measures and
equipment for emergency response;
      (5)   A description of any best management practices required by a
pretreatment standard or requirement, a user permit, or other applicable laws
and regulations.
   (E)   If a user has submitted to the Village Manager plans or documents
pursuant to other requirements of local, state, or federal laws and regulations
which meet all applicable requirements of this section, the Village Manager, in
the Village Manager’s sole discretion, may determine that the user has
satisfied the slug control plan submission requirements of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Whether or not a user has an approved slug control plan in
place, the user shall notify the POTW immediately of:
         (a)   Any slug discharges from the user’s premises; and/or
         (b)   Any changes at the user’s facility affecting the potential for a
slug discharge from the user’s premises.
      (2)   The notice shall be provided to the POTW as required for accidental
discharges as required by §
51.207 (immediate notice by telephone followed by a written report).
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** UPSET AND ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES ****
§ 51.220 UPSET.
   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought for
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if all of the
requirements of division (A), below, are met. However, in the event of an
upset, the user may still be liable for surcharges for exceeding applicable
discharge limitations as provided by this chapter. In any enforcement
proceeding, the user seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have
the burden of proof.
   (A)   Conditions necessary to demonstrate upset. A user seeking to establish
the affirmative defense of upset must demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence, all of the
following:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission containing the same information must be provided
within five days of becoming aware of the upset):
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of non-compliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   The steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (B)   User responsibility in case of upset. The user shall control
production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards and other applicable limits upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.221 ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought against it
alleging a violation of the general prohibitions under §
51.090(A) and specific prohibitions under §
51.090(B)(4), (5), (6) or (7) if the user can demonstrate that all of the
conditions necessary to establish the defense under R323.2303(3)(a) and (b) of
the State Administrative Code are met. However, even if the affirmative defense
is established, the user may still be liable for surcharges for exceeding
applicable discharge limitations as provided by this chapter. In any
enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the affirmative defenses
provided by R323.2303(3) of the State Administrative Code shall have the burden
of proof.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** BYPASS ****
§ 51.240 BYPASS NOT VIOLATING APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR
REQUIREMENTS.
   A non-domestic user may allow any bypass to occur that does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if the bypass
is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. A bypass that meets
the requirements of the preceding sentence of this section is not subject to
the provisions in §§
51.241 through
51.243. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a
discharge that exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation under this chapter
or other applicable laws or regulations; nor to relieve a user for any expense,
loss, damage, or liability that may be incurred as a result of the bypass, such
as damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property;
nor to relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability that may be
imposed by applicable laws or regulations as a result of the bypass.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.241 BYPASS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided by §
51.240, the bypass of industrial wastes from any portion of a user’s facility
is prohibited, and shall be subject to enforcement action, unless all of the
following apply:
   (A)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage.
   (B)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. (This condition is not satisfied
if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass that occurred during normal
periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance.)
   (C)   The user submitted the notices as required under §
51.242.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.242 REQUIRED NOTICES.
   (A)   Anticipated bypass. If a user knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, it must submit prior notice of the bypass to the POTW. Such notice
shall be submitted to the POTW as soon as the user becomes aware of the need
for the bypass, and if possible, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass.
   (B)   Unanticipated bypass. A user shall submit oral notice of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the POTW
within 24 hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Village Manager may waive the written
report on a case-by- case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.243 POTW-APPROVED BYPASS.
   The Village Manager may approve an anticipated bypass after considering its
adverse effects, if the Village Manager determines that it meets the conditions
set forth in §
51.241. It shall be a violation of this chapter for a user to allow an
anticipated bypass to occur without the prior approval of the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION ****
§ 51.250 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   The following provisions shall apply regarding the treatment by the POTW of
confidential information submitted to or obtained by the POTW in the
administration of this chapter:
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this subchapter, all
information and data regarding a user’s discharges obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits, monitoring activities, and from
inspections is subject to disclosure to the public and other governmental
agencies pursuant to the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (Public Act 442 of
1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231, et seq.).
   (B)   Information submitted to the Village Manager in the administration of
this chapter may be claimed by the user as confidential and not subject to
public disclosure, only if all of the following requirements and conditions are
met:
      (1)   The information sought to be kept confidential qualifies as a
protected trade secret or commercial or financial information as determined by
the appropriate public official or is otherwise exempt from public disclosure
under Public Act 442 of 1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
(Michigan Freedom of Information Act).
      (2)   The user specifically requests at the time that the information is
submitted that the release of the information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets or
commercial or financial information of the user.
      (3)   The information submitted by a user for which confidentiality is
requested shall be clearly marked using the words the words “confidential
business information” on each page as to the portion or portions considered by
the user to be entitled to protection as trade secrets or commercial or
financial information of the user; and shall be accompanied by a written
explanation of why the user considers the information to be confidential or why
the release of the information would divulge information entitled to protection
as trade secrets or commercial or financial information.
   (C)   If information is determined to be protected as a confidential and not
subject to public disclosure as provided by this subchapter, the information
shall be treated as provided by this subchapter and applicable state and
federal laws and regulations governing confidentiality of information submitted
by users to the POTW; provided, however, that all such information shall
nevertheless be made available upon written request to governmental agencies
for uses related to matters regulated by this chapter and shall be made
available for use by the state, any state agency, or the POTW in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings that involve the user that submitted the
information.
   (D)   Claims of confidentiality for the following information shall be
denied and shall be subject to public disclosure as provided by this
subchapter: Information furnished to the POTW on the volume or characteristics
of wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to be discharged by a user
into the POTW. This shall include, but shall not be limited to, all information
submitted on user permit applications; information associated with user
monitoring or sampling results; information in required user reports and
notifications; and information regarding flow measurements and other production
data used to determine compliance with mass-based limits or to calculate or
apply a combined waste stream formula.
   (E)   Observations made by POTW inspectors shall be subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section as if they were in writing if the
user specifies to the Village Manager in writing for which particular
observations made by the inspector the user seeks confidentiality and
demonstrates to the Village Manager’s satisfaction that the information
associated with the observations meets the requirements and conditions to be
exempt from public disclosure as provided by division (B).
   (F)   All confidential information and/or data with respect to a particular
user that is on file with the POTW shall be made available upon written request
by that user or its authorized representative during regular business hours.
   (G)   If information initially determined to be confidential as provided by
this subchapter is subsequently determined by the Village Manager or any other
governmental agency to be non-confidential, such information shall thereafter
be subject to public disclosure consistent with applicable law and regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** RECORDS RETENTION ****
§ 51.260 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   All users shall retain and preserve records, including, without limitation,
all books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence, and similar
materials, related to matters regulated by this chapter as provided by the
minimum requirements of this subchapter or as provided by a permit or order
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   Discharge records. A non-domestic user shall retain, preserve, and
make available to the POTW for inspection and copying, for the period specified
in division (C), all records related to matters regulated by this chapter,
including, without limitation, all documents, memoranda, correspondence, and
similar materials; copies of all required reports, notifications, and
applications; all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip
chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation; copies of results
of all sampling, monitoring, measurements, and analyses; all documentation
associated with best management practices; and records of all data used to
complete the application for a permit. Any non-domestic user subject to the
sampling, monitoring, analysis, or reporting requirements of this chapter shall
maintain copies of all records and information pertaining to those requirements
or resulting from any monitoring activities (whether or not such monitoring
activities are required by this chapter). For all samples, the records shall
include, at a minimum, the information required to be recorded by §
51.176.
   (B)   Hazardous or solid waste. A non-domestic user shall retain and
preserve all records regarding its generation, treatment, storage, or disposal
of hazardous waste or solid waste for the period specified in division (C) and
shall make them available to the POTW for inspection and copying, subject to
the provisions in this chapter regarding confidential information. (As used in
this section, the terms HAZARDOUS WASTE and SOLID WASTE shall have the same
definition as provided in the State Hazardous Waste Management Act, Public Act
451, Part 111 of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq., as amended, and the rules
promulgated under that act.)
   (C)   Retention period.
      (1)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter (or of
any permit or order issued pursuant to this chapter) shall retain the records
specified in divisions (A) and (B) for a period of at least three years from:
         (a)   The date the record was created; or
         (b)   The date the record was first used or relied upon by the user,
whichever is later.
      (2)   The three-year retention period shall be extended during any
administrative or judicial action, enforcement proceeding, or litigation
regarding matters regulated by this chapter (or regarding discharges of the
POTW under its NPDES permit), until all such actions, proceedings, or
activities have concluded and all periods of limitation with respect to any and
all appeals have expired. The three-year retention period may also be extended
at any time at the request of the POTW, EGLE, or the U.S. EPA. The POTW shall
retain all records, notices, and other information regarding discharges to the
POTW submitted to it by non-domestic users of the POTW for a period of not less
than three years.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** MANAGEMENT, SUPERVISION, AND CONTROL OF THE POTW ****
§ 51.270 MANAGEMENT, SUPERVISION, AND CONTROL OF POTW.
   The POTW shall be under the management, supervision, and control of the
Village Council. The Village Council may employ or designate such persons in
such capacities as the Village Council deems necessary and advisable to ensure
the efficient and effective operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, and
management of the POTW, to comply with the POTW’s NPDES permit, and to
discharge its financial obligations. The Village Council has the exclusive
right to establish, maintain, and collect rates and charges for use of the
POTW.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.271 POWERS OF VILLAGE MANAGER.
   The Village Manager, subject to the approval of the Village Council, shall
have the authority (either directly, through, or in conjunction with other
authorized representatives of the village) to take the following actions:
   (A)   Supervise the implementation of this chapter.
   (B)   Review plans submitted by users for pretreatment equipment.
   (C)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered sampling, metering, or pretreatment
equipment to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Verify the completeness, accuracy, and representativeness of self-
monitoring data submitted and/or maintained by users.
   (E)   Upon a determination that any discharge (or proposed discharge) would
have a reasonable potential to cause pass through or interference, be in
noncompliance with applicable discharge prohibitions or with any applicable
local, state, or federal standard or requirement, the Village Manager may take
actions, including, but not limited to, the following: reject the discharge,
require pretreatment of the discharge, and/or require controls over the
quantities and rates of discharge.
   (F)   Determine and assess IPP fees and surcharges as provided by this
chapter.
   (G)   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter, make inspections
and observations of discharges, and maintain a record of the investigations,
complaints, inspections, and observations.
   (H)   Issue orders and notices of violation and take other actions as
necessary to require compliance with this chapter.
   (I)   Develop and implement a control authority enforcement response (CAER)
plan as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5). The CAER plan shall provide a non-
binding guideline of the procedures available to the POTW to investigate and
respond to instances of noncompliance by users. The CAER plan and any
associated regulations developed by the Village Manager shall become effective
upon approval by resolution of the Village Council.
   (J)   In conjunction with the village’s legal counsel, institute necessary
civil or criminal judicial legal actions and proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction against all users violating this chapter to prosecute
violations of this chapter, to compel the abatement or prevention of
violations, to compel compliance with this chapter and any order,
determination, permit, or agreement issued or entered into under this chapter,
and to pursue any other necessary or advisable legal and/or equitable judicial
relief or remedies with respect to violations of this chapter.
   (K)   In conjunction with the village’s legal counsel, commence a municipal
civil infraction action against any user violating this chapter and issue
municipal civil infraction citations and municipal civil infraction violation
notices for violations of this chapter.
   (L)   Establish laws, rules, regulations, and procedures as determined
necessary and advisable by the Village Manager to undertake the activities as
provided by this section, to assure the efficient management and operation of
the POTW, to provide equitable charges for POTW services, and to otherwise meet
the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
   (M)   Perform any other actions authorized by this chapter, or as necessary
or advisable for the supervision, management, and operation of the POTW and the
enforcement of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** USER POLLUTION CONTROLS ****
§ 51.290 PROVISION BY USERS OF NECESSARY PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements within the time
limitations specified by applicable law or regulation, and as required to
comply with the requirements of a user permit or order issued pursuant to this
chapter. All facilities required to pretreat discharges shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user’s sole expense. Detailed, professionally
signed, and sealed plans showing the pretreatment facilities, specifications,
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the POTW for review and approval
prior to construction. The POTW may approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the plans, specifications, and operating procedures. A user shall
not begin discharging from the treatment facilities until facilities have been
approved and all conditions and requirements of the approval have been met as
determined by the Village Manager. The review and approval by the Village
Manager of such plans and operating procedures does not in any way relieve the
user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce
an effluent acceptable to the POTW under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the Village Manager prior to the user’s
initiation of the changes. (Users shall notify the POTW regarding the
installation of new pretreatment facilities or modification of existing
facilities as provided by §
51.146.)
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.291 PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A user shall at all times properly operate and continuously maintain, at the
user’s sole expense, all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and
related appurtenances) that are installed or used by the user to comply with
the requirements of this chapter. Proper operation and maintenance includes,
without limitation, effective performance, adequate funding (including
replacement costs), adequate operator staffing, and adequate quality assurance/
quality control (QA/QC) procedures for sampling and analysis, so as to provide
adequate wastewater collection and treatment on a continuing basis, to conform
with all local, state, and federal laws and regulations, and to assure optimum
long-term management of the facilities and system.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.292 REMOVED SUBSTANCES.
   Solids, sludges, filter backwash, or other pollutants removed in the course
of treatment or control of wastewaters shall be disposed of in accordance with
Section 405 of the Clean Water Act and Subtitles C and D of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, and other applicable local, state, and federal
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.293 DUTY TO HALT OR REDUCE ACTIVITY.
   Upon reduction of efficiency of operation, or loss, or failure of all or
part of a user’s pretreatment equipment or facility, the user shall, to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
and other applicable standards, requirements, and limits, control its
production and all discharges until operation of the equipment or facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in situations, including, without limitation, where the primary source
of power for the pretreatment equipment or facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
It shall not be a defense for a user in an enforcement action that it would
have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to
maintain compliance with the conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.294 DUTY TO MITIGATE.
   A user shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse
impact to the POTW or the environment resulting from noncompliance with this
chapter, including such accelerated or additional monitoring as necessary to
determine the nature and impact of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.295 DUTY TO PRETREAT PRIOR TO DISCHARGE TO POTW.
   Except as otherwise expressly required by this chapter, by a user permit, by
an order or other determination of the Village Manager, or by other applicable
law or regulation, the prohibitions and limitations provided by this chapter or
a user permit shall apply at the point where wastewater and pollutants are
discharged or caused to be discharged into the POTW and any required
pretreatment shall, at a minimum, be completed before that point of discharge
is reached.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.296 IMPLEMENTATION OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Manager may require any user to develop and implement best
management practices to control, contain, treat, prevent, or reduce the
discharge of wastewater, pollutants, or other substances from the user’s
premises to the POTW, as determined necessary by the Village Manager.
   (B)   In addition, the Village Manager may require a user to develop and
submit a best management practices plan (“BMPP”), including an enforceable
implementation schedule, for review and approval by the Village Manager. The
BMPP shall be submitted within 30 days after notification by the Village
Manager or as otherwise required by a user permit. The BMPP shall be directed
at preventing the entrance of pollutants, directly or indirectly, into the
POTW. The BMPP shall be available for inspection at all times at the user’s
premises. At a minimum, a user’s BMPP shall contain all of the following
elements, as determined necessary by the Village Manager, at a level of detail
and in units and terms as determined necessary by the Village Manager to
adequately evaluate the plan:
      (1)   A statement of the purpose and objectives of the plan.
      (2)   A description of the strategies, methods, policies, and procedures
to prevent, minimize or reduce the introduction of pollutants into the user’s
discharge and to minimize waste generation.
      (3)   A description of the options available to the user to control
accidental spillage, leaks, and drainage.
      (4)   A description of best available or practicable control technologies
available for the user’s specific circumstances.
      (5)   A detailed facility layout and site diagram showing points of entry
into the POTW.
      (6)   A description of the waste handling, treatment, and discharge
disposal facilities, including flow diagrams and process schematics.
      (7)   A description of operating and maintenance processes and
procedures.
      (8)   Inventory of raw materials and a list of waste sources, including a
list of all chemicals used or stored at the facility.
      (9)   A description of employee training programs, policies, and
procedures; continuing education programs; and participation.
      (10)   A description of documentation, including record keeping and
forms.
      (11)   A description of monitoring activities.
      (12)   Information log of facility personnel, organization chart,
emergency phone numbers, contact persons, and maintenance or service
representatives.
      (13)   Certification by a qualified professional that the plan is
adequate to prevent spills, leaks, slug loads, or non-customary discharges of
regulated substances, directly or indirectly, to the POTW.
      (14)   Such other information, documents or diagrams as required by the
Village Manager, including, but not limited to, any of the information required
under §
51.113.
   (C)   The BMPs or BMPP required of a user or approved for a user shall be
incorporated in a user permit issued to the user. If the user already has a
user permit, the existing permit may be modified to incorporate the BMP
requirements. If the user does not currently have a user permit, a permit shall
be issued for that purpose.
   (D)   The Village Manager may require revisions to users’ BMPP if the
Village Manager determines that the plan contains elements that are inadequate,
or as otherwise determined necessary by the Village Manager to ensure
compliance with applicable requirements of this chapter. Review of a BMPP by
the Village Manager shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to comply with local, state, and federal laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.297 FOG INTERCEPTOR; ALTERNATE FOG PRETREATMENT TECHNOLOGY; SAND TRAPS.
   (A)   General requirements applicable to all FOG interceptors, alternate FOG
pretreatment technology, and sand traps.
      (1)   Any user required to install a FOG interceptor, an alternate FOG
pretreatment technology (“AFPT”), or a sand trap to prevent the discharge of
fats, oils, grease, sand, or other materials to the POTW shall comply with the
minimum requirements as provided by this section, or the Plumbing Code,
whichever requirements are most restrictive, or as otherwise specified by the
Village Manager.
      (2)   Interceptors, AFPTs, and traps that are required by this section
shall be provided, cleaned, maintained in proper operating condition, and kept
in continuously efficient operation at all times, at the sole expense of the
owner of the premises.
      (3)   All interceptors, AFPTs, and traps shall be of a design, type,
construction, and capacity approved in advance by the Village Manager.
      (4)   The installation of all interceptors, AFPTs, and traps shall be
subject to the Village Manager’s prior review and written approval.
      (5)   All interceptors, AFPTs, and traps shall be located so as to be
readily and easily accessible for maintenance, cleaning, and inspection.
      (6)   All users required to install and maintain an interceptor, AFPT, or
trap shall develop and carry out a system of maintenance and cleaning for the
interceptor, AFPT, or trap, and shall keep accurate, detailed written records
of the following:
         (a)   The maintenance and cleaning schedule;
         (b)   The names of the persons who maintained and cleaned the
interceptor, AFPT, or trap, and the dates that the interceptor, AFPT, or trap
was maintained and cleaned; and
         (c)   The method of cleaning and disposal location for removed
materials for each maintenance and/or cleaning.
      (7)   At a minimum, all interceptors, AFPTs, and traps shall be
inspected, cleaned, and maintained according to the manufacturer’s
specifications or as otherwise provided by this section, whichever requirements
are more stringent, at the property owner’s expense.
      (8)   All written records and documentation required to be kept by this
section with regard to interceptors, AFPTs, and traps shall be kept by the user
on the premises for at least three years and shall be available for review by
the Village Manager during all operating hours. The user shall provide copies
of required records to the Village Manager upon the Village Manager’s request
at the user’s sole cost.
      (9)   Any problems with or damage to an interceptor, AFPT, or trap shall
be reported immediately to the property owner and to the Village Manager.
      (10)   Any problems with or damage to an interceptor, AFPT, or trap shall
be rectified and/or repaired immediately by the property owner at the owner’s
sole cost.
      (11)   Interceptor, AFPT, or trap clean-out material, including, but not
limited to, accumulated fats, oils, grease, and sand, shall not be discharged
into the POTW.
      (12)   Bacteriological, chemical, or enzymatic products shall not be used
to maintain or clean interceptors, AFPTs, or traps.
      (13)   The Village Manager may require sampling and testing of the
effluent from an interceptor, trap, or AFPT to verify that the effluent
complies with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The sampling
and testing shall be conducted using the protocols and on a frequency as
specified by the Village Manager.
   (B)   Requirements for FOG interceptors and AFPTs. A FOG interceptor or AFPT
shall be required for all food service establishments (FSEs), and may also be
required for any other user, premises, or establishment determined by the
Village Manager to have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the POTW due
to discharges of FOG.
      (1)   Outdoor FOG interceptors.
         (a)   Outdoor FOG interceptors required. All FSEs shall install,
operate, and maintain an outdoor FOG interceptor of a type, design,
construction, and size approved in advance by the Village Manager; provided
that if the Village Manager determines that installation of an outdoor FOG
interceptor would not be economically and/or technically feasible due to
existing circumstances unique to the premises in question, the Village Manager
may instead allow the installation of alternate FOG pretreatment technology as
provided by division (B)(2). In all cases, the user shall bear the burden of
demonstrating to the Village Manager, at the user’s sole cost, that the
installation of an outdoor FOG interceptor is not feasible and that an
alternate FOG pretreatment technology should instead be allowed.
         (b)   Compliance schedule.
            1.   Existing FSEs/users. Any FSE discharging into the POTW as of
the effective date of this chapter (and any other existing user determined by
the Village Manager to have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the POTW
due to discharges of FOG) shall, upon notification from the Village Manager,
submit plans for an outdoor FOG interceptor for approval by the Village
Manager, and shall install and begin operation of the interceptor, in
compliance with the schedule specified by the Village Manager.
            2.   New FSEs/users. Any FSE that proposes to commence discharging
into the POTW after the effective date of this chapter (and any other new user
determined by the Village Manager to have a reasonable potential to adversely
affect the POTW due to discharges of FOG) shall submit plans for an outdoor FOG
interceptor to the Village Manager for the Village Manager’s approval, and
shall install and begin operation of the interceptor in compliance with the
schedule specified by the Village Manager. In all cases, the interceptor plans
must be approved by the Village Manager prior to submitting plans to the
village for a building permit and the village shall not issue a building permit
for the premises until the POTW has approved the proposed interceptor plans.
Further, the village shall not issue a certificate of occupancy for the
premises until the interceptor has been installed and deemed acceptable by the
Village Manager.
         (c)   Minimum design and installation requirements for outdoor FOG
interceptors. Outdoor FOG interceptors shall comply with all of the following
minimum design and installation requirements:
            1.   The interceptor shall provide a minimum capacity of 1,500
gallons, unless the Village Manager determines that a smaller minimum capacity
is adequate for the premises.
            2.   The interceptor shall have a minimum of two compartments with
fittings designed for FOG retention.
            3.   The interceptor shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
            4.   The interceptor shall be installed at a location, subject to
the prior approval of the Village Manager, where it can be easily accessible
for inspection, cleaning, and removal of intercepted FOG, but shall not be
located in any part of a building where food is handled.
            5.   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall
be provided over each outdoor FOG interceptor chamber and sanitary tee. The
access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and be designed and
maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also
have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection, FOG removal, and
sampling which, when bolted into place, shall be gastight and watertight.
         (d)   Minimum inspection, maintenance, and cleaning requirements for
outdoor FOG interceptors. Outdoor FOG interceptors shall comply with all of the
following minimum maintenance, cleaning, and inspection requirements:
            1.   At a minimum, an outdoor FOG interceptor shall be inspected
monthly by the property owner, or more often if dictated by site-specific
conditions or if required more frequently by the Village Manager.
            2.   Pump-out of all accumulated FOG, water, and sludge shall occur
quarterly at a minimum, or more often if the combined height of floatables and
settled solids (including both the top and bottom layers of solids) exceed 25%
of any interceptor compartment operating depth; if there is a visible discharge
of FOG; or if required more frequently by the Village Manager. The operating
depth of a trap shall be determined by measuring the internal depth from the
outlet water elevation to the bottom of the trap.
            3.   Each pump-out of the interceptor shall be complete and remove
all contents, including removal of the entire grease mat, liquids, sludges, and
solids from screens, baffles, air-relief chambers, and wash down of interior
walls. The interceptor shall be refilled with clear water before being returned
to service.
            4.   The interceptor shall be kept free of inorganic solid
materials such as grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes,
shells, towels, rags, etc., which could reduce the effective volume for FOG and
sludge accumulation.
            5.   Water removed during pump-out shall not be returned to the
interceptor, and accumulated FOG and sludge shall not be reintroduced into any
drainage piping leading to the public sewer.
            6.   Sanitary wastes shall not be discharged to sewer lines
serviced by an outdoor FOG interceptor without specific prior approval by the
Village Manager.
            7.   The pump-out operation and disposal of the accumulated FOG,
water, and sludge shall be done only by a licensed contractor and shall be
witnessed by the property owner or operator. The Village Manager shall be
notified prior to any scheduled pump-out so that the operation can be witnessed
if desired.
      (2)   Alternate FOG pretreatment technology.
         (a)   If the Village Manager determines that installation of an
outdoor FOG interceptor is not required as provided by division (B)(1)(a), then
the Village Manager may instead authorize the installation of an alternate FOG
pretreatment technology (“AFPT”) approved by the Village Manager as provided by
this section.
         (b)   The design, type, construction, capacity, installation,
operation, and maintenance requirements for an AFPT for a user’s proposed or
existing discharge shall be as determined by the Village Manager based on
nature of the discharge and the unique circumstances applicable to the premises
in question.
         (c)   Indoor grease traps. If the AFPT approved by the Village Manager
is an indoor grease trap, the following requirements shall apply:
            1.   Indoor grease traps shall be installed in all waste lines from
sinks, drains, and other fixtures or equipment where grease may be discharged
to the POTW; provided that no food waste disposal unit, dishwasher, wastewater,
or other liquid in excess of 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Centigrade)
shall be discharged into an indoor grease trap. Further, no acidic or caustic
cleaners shall be discharged into an indoor grease trap.
            2.   Traps shall never be operated without the flow restrictor
supplied by the unit’s manufacturer.
            3.   Sizing and installation of the indoor grease traps shall be
subject to the POTW’s prior review and written approval.
            4,   Traps shall be inspected and cleaned at least once per week,
or more often if dictated by site-specific conditions, as needed to be
maintained in fully functional and efficient operation, or as otherwise
specifically required by the Village Manager.
            5.   FSEs with indoor grease traps shall employ kitchen best
management practices (BMPs) for pre-cleaning of plates, pots, pans, and similar
methods to minimize grease loadings to the drainage system. Kitchen BMPs for
FSEs shall include, without limitation, dry wiping of pots and pans prior to
washing, use of absorbents on grease spills prior to mopping, posting of “No
Grease” signage on all sinks and drains not connected to an interceptor or
trap, training of personnel on BMPs, and other practices as determined
appropriate by the Village Manager.
         (d)   Other AFPT. If the proposed AFPT is a technology other than
indoor grease traps, the FSE shall submit design plans, installation details,
and operation and maintenance procedures to the Village Manager for prior
review and written approval.
   (C)   Sand and FOG interceptors and traps. Sand and FOG interceptors and
traps may be required by the Village Manager in any premises where the Village
Manager has determined that there is a reasonable potential for sand, fats,
oil, grease, flammable wastes, or other harmful ingredients to enter the
premise’s discharges. If a plug or backup occurs that is caused by any such
substance, the Village Manager may require premises to install an interceptor
or trap as determined appropriate by the Village Manager. Interceptors and
traps shall be required for all premises engaged in the washing of motor
vehicles.
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   The village shall have the right to enter and inspect any premises
where an interceptor, AFPT, or trap is required to be installed for purposes of
determining compliance with the requirements of this section and as otherwise
provided by §
51.310.
      (2)   If a user fails to provide or maintain a required interceptor/AFPT,
the village may do so (or cause the same to be done) and charge all of the
costs to the user.
      (3)   The failure of any premises where an interceptor/AFPT is required
to comply with this section may subject the violator to enforcement action and
the remedies that are available by law and the terms of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, termination of the discharges from the premises
to the POTW.
   (E)   Permits. The Village Manager may issue and/or require a user permit
for any user discharging FOG or sand to the POTW; provided that the provisions
of this section shall apply whether or not a user permit is issued. User
permits may include requirements that are more stringent than, or in addition
to, the requirements specified by this section, as determined appropriate by
the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.298 DENTAL AMALGAM; AMALGAM SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section only, the following
definitions shall apply.
      AMALGAM SEPARATOR. A device designed to remove dental amalgam waste
particles from dental office wastewater.
      CODE. The Michigan Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 to 333.25211. Terms defined in the Code
have the same meanings when used in this section.
      DENTAL AMALGAM. A mixture of mercury and other metals used as a dental
restorative material.
      DENTAL AMALGAM WASTE. Waste from a dental office containing any of the
following:
         (a)   Contact amalgam waste, which means dental amalgam that has been
in contact with the patient including, but not limited to, extracted teeth with
dental amalgam restorations; carving scrap
collected at chair-side; and dental amalgam captured by chair-side traps,
vacuum pump filters, amalgam separators, or other dental amalgam capture
devices.
         (b)   Non-contact amalgam scrap, which means dental amalgam that has
not been in contact with the patient including, but not limited to, excess
dental amalgam mix remaining at the end of a dental procedure.
         (c)   Empty amalgam capsules, which means individually dosed
containers left over after mixing precapsulated dental amalgam.
         (d)   Dental amalgam that may have accumulated in the plumbing system
or that is found in other areas of a dental office.
      DENTAL DISCHARGER. For purposes of compliance with this section, a
facility where the practice of dentistry is performed, including, but not
limited to, institutions, permanent or temporary offices, clinics, home
offices, and facilities owned and operated by federal, state, or local
governments, that discharges wastewater the POTW.
      DENTIST. An individual licensed under Section 16611 of the Code who uses
or removes dental amalgam or who owns or operates a dental office that
generates dental amalgam waste.
      DEPARTMENT. The Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.
      DISCHARGE. The release of any dental amalgam waste into the environment.
This includes any releases to land, ground or surface waters, septic systems,
or wastewater treatment systems.
      HOLDING TANK. A closed, watertight, sealed structure designed and used to
receive and store wastewater. Holding tanks are designed and constructed for
ultimate disposal of collected wastewater at another site.
   (B)   Amalgam separator; installation and operation; requirements.
      (1)   On or before December 31, 2013, a dentist shall install, or shall
have installed, an amalgam separator on each wastewater drain in his or her
dental office that is used to discharge dental amalgam waste. In addition to
meeting the requirements of the Code and this section, a dentist who is
required to install an amalgam separator shall comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   Install an amalgam separator that meets the requirements of
division (C).
         (b)   Install, operate, and maintain the amalgam separator according
to the manufacturer’s instructions.
         (c)   Ensure the installed amalgam separator is properly sized to
accommodate maximum dental amalgam wastewater flow rates at the dental office.
The maximum allowable flow rate through an amalgam separator at a dental office
shall not exceed the maximum flow rate capacity at which the amalgam separator
was tested under division (C)(1)(a).
         (d)   Ensure that all wastewater from the dental office containing
dental amalgam waste passes through an installed and properly functioning and
maintained amalgam separator before being discharged.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) shall not apply to any of the following: oral and
maxillofacial surgeons; oral and maxillofacial radiologists; oral pathologists;
orthodontists; periodontists; dentists while providing services in a dental
school, in a hospital, or through a local health department; and dentists who
install and use a holding tank and do not discharge amalgam waste.
   (C)   Amalgam separator; requirements.
      (1)   An amalgam separator that is installed in a dental office under
division (B) shall meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Be certified as passing the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) 11143:2008 standard for evaluating amalgam separators.
         (b)   Have a removal efficiency of not less than 95% as determined by
the testing required under division (C)(1)(a), based on the overall average of
the three empty and the three simulated full test results.
         (c)   Be tested and certified by any of the following: SP technical
research institute of Sweden; Tuv nord, Germany; NSF international; or both of
the following: a testing laboratory accredited by an accreditation body that is
a signatory to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation’s mutual
recognition arrangement and has a scope of accreditation that includes ISO
11143; and a certification body accredited by an accreditation body that is a
signatory to the International Accreditation Forum’s multilateral recognition
arrangement and has a scope of accreditation that includes ISO 11143.
      (2)   Any amalgam separator that meets the requirements of division (C)
(1) shall qualify as an amalgam separator approved by the Michigan Board of
Dentistry.
   (D)   Collection, disposal, and recycling of dental amalgam waste;
requirements.
      (1)   A dentist shall comply with all of the following:
         (a)   Use amalgam only in a precapsulated form.
         (b)   1.   Salvage, store, and recycle non-contact and contact dental
amalgam materials, including empty amalgam capsules.
            2.   As used in this division (D) and division (E), RECYCLE or
RECYCLING means sending mercury or dental amalgam waste to either the
contracted separator company or a facility in the United States that will
reclaim or distill the mercury for reuse. RECYCLE or RECYCLING shall not
include any of the following:
               a.   The on-site processing of mercury or dental amalgam waste;
               b.   The sale, donation, or exchange of mercury or dental
amalgam waste through internet lists; or
               c.   The sale or donation of mercury or dental amalgam waste to
any individual or company for any other reuse purpose.
         (c)   Collect and recycle extracted teeth or portions of teeth that
contain dental amalgam materials.
         (d)   Store all dental amalgam waste in enclosed and structurally
sound containers until a sufficient amount has been collected for shipment to a
reclamation facility or recycler or at a minimum, recycled annually.
         (e)   Label all containers holding dental amalgam waste. The label
shall include, at a minimum, the title “dental amalgam waste for recycling” and
the date the waste was initially placed in the container.
         (f)   Use chair-side traps to retain amalgam and recycle the content.
         (g)   Recycle all amalgam materials collected in amalgam separators,
vacuum pump filters, chair-side traps, or other wastewater processing devices.
         (h)   Ensure that the separators operate properly and do not become
full and bypass. This may include inspecting the separators annually, halfway
through the operating life, or as required by the manufacturer.
         (i)   Follow the steps for the cleanup of mercury spills at schools
and businesses as recommended by the Department at www.michigan.gov/mercury (or
at such other location that such information may hereafter be provided by the
Department).
      (2)   A dentist shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Store bulk elemental mercury that is not in capsule form.
         (b)   Put dental amalgam waste down a toilet or drain.
         (c)   Put dental amalgam waste or empty amalgam capsules into trash
containers, or biohazard or infectious waste bags.
         (d)   Disinfect teeth or any item containing dental amalgam by
autoclaving or using heat.
         (e)   Use cleaners containing bleach or chlorine to flush drains or
wastewater lines.
      (3)   A dentist shall train and have written procedures for training
dental office staff who manage or dispose of dental amalgam waste to ensure
compliance with this rule.
      (4)   This division (D) shall not apply to a dentist listed in division
(B)(2). A dentist who installs and uses a holding tank and does not discharge
amalgam waste shall comply with the requirements of divisions (D)(1), (2), and
(3), as applicable.
   (E)   Record keeping.
      (1)   A dentist who is subject to the provisions of division (B)(1) shall
maintain records at his or her dental office that include all of the following:
         (a)   Type of amalgam separator installed, including the manufacturer
and model.
         (b)   Date the amalgam separator became operational.
         (c)   Documentation verifying that the amalgam separator meets the
requirements of division (C).
         (d)   Documentation of the manufacturer’s instructions for the
operation and maintenance of the amalgam separator.
         (e)   Service records for each amalgam separator in use at the dental
office that includes all of the following:
            1.   Dates of maintenance;
            2.   Dates separator contents were recycled; and
            3.   Name of the staff or contractor performing the service.
         (f)   Documentation verifying that the dentist disposed of and
recycled any dental amalgam waste that was generated from the individual’s
dental office consistent with the requirements of division (D). The
documentation shall include all of the following:
            1.   Name and address of the collection service or recycler;
            2.   Amount by weight of dental amalgam waste that was collected
and the date it was
collected or shipped from the dental office for recycling;
            3.   Name and address of the facility where the dental amalgam
waste will be recycled; and
            4.   Shipping or manifest papers documenting transfer of the dental
amalgam waste to the recycler.
      (2)   The records required under division (E)(1) shall be provided upon
request to an authorized state official, local public health department staff,
or representative of the village, including, but not limited to, the Village
Manager.
      (3)   All records required under division (E)(1) shall be retained for a
minimum of three years.
   (F)   Verification. Upon the request of the Village Manager, a dentist who
is subject to the provisions of division (B)(1) shall verify in writing that he
or she is in compliance with this section and shall provide the amalgam
separator make and year that each separator was installed.
   (G)   Federal dental office point source category requirements.
      (1)   Dental dischargers subject to 40 C.F.R. Part 441 (“Dental Office
Point Source Category”) as provided by 40 C.F.R. § 441.10 shall comply with all
applicable requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 441, by the compliance deadlines
stated by those regulations, including but not limited to, the dental office
pretreatment standards, best management practices, and reporting and
recordkeeping requirements provided by 40 C.F.R. §§ 441.30, 441.40, and 441.50.
      (2)   One time compliance report (“OTCR”). Dental dischargers subject to
40 C.F.R. Part 441 as provided by 40 C.F.R. § 441.10 shall comply with the
following requirements in connection with submittal of OTCRs to the POTW:
         (a)   Deadlines. For existing sources, an OTCR must be submitted to
the POTW no later than October 12, 2023, or 90 days after a transfer of
ownership. For new sources, an OTCR must be submitted to the POTW no later than
90 days following the introduction of wastewater into the POTW.
         (b)   Signature and certification. The OTCR must be signed and
certified by a responsible corporate officer, a general partner or proprietor
if the dental discharger is a partnership or sole proprietorship, or a duly
authorized representative in accordance with the requirements of 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(1).
         (c)   Contents. The OTCR shall contain the information and
certifications required by 40 C.F.R. § 441.50(a)(3).
         (d)   Transfer of ownership. If a dental discharger transfers
ownership of the facility, the new owner must submit a new OTCR to the POTW no
later than 90 days after the transfer.
         (e)   Retention period. As long as a dental discharger subject to this
division (G) is in operation, or until ownership is transferred, the dental
discharger or an agent or representative of the dental discharger must maintain
the OTCR and make it available for inspection in either physical or electronic
form for the periods specified by 40 C.F.R. § 441.50(a)(5).
      (3)   Additional recordkeeping and retention requirements. Dental
dischargers or an agent or representative of the dental discharger must
maintain and make available for inspection in either physical or electronic
form, for a minimum of three years, the documentation as provided by 40 C.F.R.
§ 441.50(b).
      (4)   Interaction with state and local dental amalgam requirements. The
requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part 441 are incremental to state and local dental
amalgam requirements, including, but not limited to, the requirements of this
chapter and of Public Act 368 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 333.16631.
If 40 C.F.R. Part 441 contains requirements applicable to dental amalgam that
are more stringent than, or are in addition to, state and local dental amalgam
requirements, the more stringent and additional requirements of 40 C.F.R. Part
441 shall control.
   (H)   Compliance and enforcement. Failure to comply with the requirements of
this section is a violation of this chapter and may result in enforcement as
provided by this chapter, or as otherwise provided for by applicable local,
state, and federal laws and regulations.
   (I)   Permits. The Village Manager may issue and/or require a user permit
for any dentist who uses or removes dental amalgam or who owns or operates a
dental office that generates dental amalgam waste; provided that the provisions
of this section shall apply whether or not a user permit is issued. User
permits may include any conditions and requirements that are consistent with
the provisions of this section and as provided by applicable state or federal
laws and regulations, as determined appropriate by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.299 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   The POTW may require users to take additional pretreatment measures, as
determined necessary by the Village Manager, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste streams, and
such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install
and continually maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow, subject to
approval by the Village Manager.
   (C)   Users with the reasonable potential to discharge explosive or
flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved
explosion hazard meter, combustible gas detection meter, or similar device, as
determined appropriate by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 51.310 POTW INSPECTION, SURVEILLANCE, AND MONITORING AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF
ENTRY.
   (A)   In general. The POTW is authorized to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, sampling, and monitoring activities and procedures, as necessary
to determine, independent of information supplied by users or any other
persons, compliance or noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements, with this chapter, and with other applicable laws and
regulations. This authority includes, without limitation, the authority:
      (1)   To verify the completeness, accuracy, and representativeness of
self-monitoring data submitted by users.
      (2)   To determine compliance with the terms, conditions, and
requirements of this chapter or of any permit, order, notice, or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter.
      (3)   To support enforcement actions taken by the Village Manager against
noncompliant users.
      (4)   To determine if users have corrected problems identified in
previous inspections.
      (5)   To identify which (and to what degree) users influence the quality
of the POTW’s influent, effluent and sludge quality.
      (6)   To evaluate the impacts of the POTW’s influent on its treatment
processes and receiving stream.
      (7)   To evaluate the need for revised local limits.
      (8)   To maintain current data on each user.
      (9)   To assess the adequacy of each user’s self-monitoring program and
user permit.
      (10)   To provide a basis for establishing sampling and monitoring
requirements for users.
      (11)   To evaluate the adequacy of each user’s operation and maintenance
activities on its pretreatment system.
      (12)   To assess the potential for spills and/or slug discharge control
measures, and evaluate the effectiveness of spill and slug discharge control
measures.
      (13)   To gather information for user permit development.
      (14)   To evaluate compliance with existing enforcement actions.
      (15)   To require any user to submit one or more representative samples
of the wastewater discharged or that the user proposes to discharge into the
POTW.
      (16)   To determine compliance with requirements regarding implementation
of best management practices; accidental discharge controls and protections;
spill prevention or containment measures; and pollution prevention,
minimization, or reduction measures.
   (B)   Right of entry.
      (1)   The Village Manager and other designees and authorized
representatives of the village bearing proper credentials and identification
are authorized to enter a user’s premises (and any other person’s premises, as
determined necessary by the Village Manager) to conduct inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring activities as necessary to determine compliance
with this chapter, and in that regard shall have, without limitation, the
following minimum authority:
         (a)   To enter into any premises of any person in which a discharge
source, treatment system or activity is located or in which records are
required to be kept as provided by this chapter, for the purpose of inspecting,
observing, measuring, sampling, and testing the wastewater discharge, removing
samples of wastewater for analysis, and inspecting and making copies of
required records. This shall include the right to take photographs.
         (b)   To set up and maintain on the person’s property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations, or to require the person to do so, at the person’s sole
expense.
         (c)   To randomly sample and analyze the discharge from any person or
premises and conduct surveillance activities to identify occasional and
continuing noncompliance with applicable standards and requirements. The POTW
shall inspect and sample the discharge from each significant industrial user at
least once a year.
         (d)   To inspect any production, manufacturing, fabrication, or
storage area where pollutants, subject to regulation under this chapter, could
originate, be stored, or be discharged to the POTW.
         (e)   To enter all private properties through which the POTW, the
village, or other governmental agency holds an easement for the purposes of,
but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the POTW or wastewater transmission facilities
lying within the easement.
      (2)   POTW representatives entering a person’s premises for purposes
authorized by this chapter shall comply with the person’s plant safety
requirements regarding such matters as entry into confined spaces, use of
safety glasses, and hearing protection requirements, as requested by the
person. Entry shall be commenced and completed as expeditiously as practicable,
consistent with the purposes for which the entry was made.
   (C)   Access without delay required. Persons shall allow the POTW ready
access at all times to all parts of the person’s facility or premises where
wastewater governed by this chapter is created, handled, conveyed, treated, or
discharged, or where any production, manufacturing, fabrication, or storage
area where pollutants regulated under this chapter could originate, be stored,
or be discharged to the POTW, or where wastewater records are kept, for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, or in the performance of
any of the POTW’s duties. If a person has security measures in force that would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises by
the Village Manager, the person shall make necessary arrangements in advance
with its security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification,
authorized representatives of the POTW (or authorized state or federal
personnel) will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities. Upon arrival at a person’s
premises, POTW representatives shall inform the person or the person’s
employees that inspections, sampling, compliance monitoring, metering or other
POTW procedures are to be performed and that the person has the right to
accompany the POTW employee/representative during the performance of the
person’s duties.
   (D)   Refusal to allow entry. If a person refuses to permit access (or
unreasonably delays access) to an authorized POTW representative or to permit
the representative to obtain, take, and remove samples or make copies of
documents or undertake other authorized inspection, surveillance, and
monitoring activities as provided by this chapter, the Village Manager may
order the termination of the discharge of wastewater to the POTW; order the
person to permit access within a time certain; issue the person a notice of
violation of this section; or take other appropriate action as provided by this
chapter and other applicable laws and regulations (including, but not limited
to, seeking the issuance of a search warrant). Further, the refusal to permit
access (or causing an unreasonable delay in access) as provided by this section
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Emergency inspections. In an emergency which creates an immediate and
substantial danger to the health, safety, and welfare of individuals or
property, the premises of a user may be inspected immediately, at any time, and
without permission or a warrant.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.311 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating a provision of this chapter may be
served with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction of the violation. The
person shall, within the period of time stated in notice, permanently cease all
violations. The notice of violation (NOV) shall be served and shall contain the
information as provided by §
51.313.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified by the NOV, the following provisions shall
apply: Within at least 30 days of the date of the NOV, the person shall submit
to the POTW a written explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions. Submission of the required plan shall not in any way relieve the
person of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the
notice of violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the village or
the POTW to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation, or otherwise
require the village or the POTW to first issue a notice of violation before
initiating a civil or criminal action against a person for violating this
chapter. Further, receipt, or non- receipt, of a notice of violation shall in
no way relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated with any
violation.
   (D)   Failure to comply with any requirement of a notice of violation shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.312 ORDERS AND SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT TOOLS.
   The Village Manager may issue an order to any person as determined by the
Village Manager to be appropriate under the circumstances, as provided by this
section. Multiple orders may be issued simultaneously or in combination as a
single order with respect to a single person.
   (A)   Service. An order shall be served upon a person and shall contain the
information as provided by §
51.313. However, orders to immediately cease and desist discharge, or to
terminate sewer services, or other emergency orders where delay might endanger
human health, the environment, or the POTW, may be oral and may be served by
telephone, to be followed within five days by written confirmation of the oral
order by the Village Manager.
   (B)   Types of orders. The Village Manager may issue the following types of
orders:
      (1)   Order to immediately cease and desist discharge. The Village
Manager may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any wastewater,
pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this chapter. The order shall
have immediate effect if the Village Manager determines that the actual or
threatened discharge to the POTW presents, or may present, imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or to the
environment; or causes, or may cause, interference or pass through; or may
cause the POTW to violate any term or condition of its NPDES permit. The
Village Manager shall implement whatever action is necessary to halt or prevent
the discharge, including, but not limited to, emergency suspension of service.
The person shall be assessed for any penalties, fines, charges, surcharges,
expenses, or losses incurred due to the actual or threatened discharge of
pollutants as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   Order to cease discharge within a time certain. The Village Manager
may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any wastewater,
pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this chapter by a certain time
and date. The proposed time for remedial action shall be specified in the
order. In addition to any other circumstances as determined appropriate by the
Village Manager, an order may be issued under this section for the failure to
pay applicable permit fees or to comply with any term of a user permit.
      (3)   Order to effect pretreatment. The Village Manager may issue an
order to a user requiring the user to pretreat its discharge in accordance with
this chapter. Any user subject to an order to pretreat shall prepare a plan to
pretreat its discharge so that the discharge complies with the requirements of
the order and this chapter. The plan shall be submitted to the Village Manager
within a reasonable period as specified in the order. The plan shall be
prepared in accordance with good engineering practice and shall state whether
construction is necessary, as well as identify measures that can be completed
without construction. The plan shall contain a schedule of compliance for
completion of each of the various phases necessary to implement full
pretreatment. The schedule of compliance must be approved by the Village
Manager. The schedule of compliance shall consist of one or more remedial
measures, including enforceable timetables for a sequence of actions or
operations leading to compliance with an effluent standard, or other
prohibition or standard. The following steps or phases shall be included in the
schedule of compliance as determined necessary by the Village Manager:
         (a)   Retain a qualified engineer and/or consultant.
         (b)   Obtain any engineering or scientific investigation or surveys
deemed necessary.
         (c)   Prepare and submit a preliminary plan to achieve pretreatment.
         (d)   Prepare plans and specifications, working drawings, or other
engineering or architectural documents that may be necessary to effect
pretreatment.
         (e)   Establish a time to let any contract necessary for any
construction.
         (f)   Establish completion times for any construction necessary.
         (g)   Establish a time limit to complete full pretreatment pursuant to
the final order.
         (h)   If a phase or unit of construction or implementation may be
effected independently of another phase or unit, establish separate timetables
for the phases or unit.
      (4)   Order to affirmatively respond. The Village Manager may issue an
order requiring a person to perform any action required under this chapter,
including, without limitation, requiring a person to submit samples; to install
sampling, metering, and monitoring equipment; to submit reports; to permit
access for inspection, sampling, testing, monitoring, and investigations; to
reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge; or to pay permit
fees or other applicable charges.
      (5)   Order to terminate sewer services.
         (a)   The Village Manager may issue an order to terminate the sewer
services of a user, including, but not limited to, immediate physical blockage
of the user’s sewer connection, for reasons including, without limitation, the
following:
            1.   A discharge that violates any general or specific discharge
prohibition, including any pretreatment standard or requirement, and that
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to human health, the
environment, or the POTW.
            2.   Failure of a user to notify the POTW of any discharge as
described in division (B)(5)(a) of which the user was aware or reasonably
should have been aware.
            3.   Failure of a user to sample, monitor, pretreat, or report, or
failure to install monitoring or pretreatment facilities, as required by an
order of the Village Manager.
            4.   A knowing, willful violation of any term, condition, or
requirement of an order or user permit, or any provision of this chapter.
            5.   A negligent violation of any major term, condition or
requirement of an order or user permit. For purposes of this section, a MAJOR
term, condition, or requirement is one the violation of which is reasonably
likely to endanger human health, the environment, the POTW, or cause the POTW
to violate its NPDES permit.
         (b)   If the POTW determines that physical blockage is necessary, the
POTW shall make a reasonable attempt to deliver to the person who appears to be
in control of the user’s facility a written notice describing the reason for
the physical blockage order. After delivery of the notice (or after a
reasonable attempt to deliver the notice, even if delivery was unsuccessful),
the POTW may immediately install the physical blockage. No person shall remove
or tamper with a physical blockage installed by the Village Manager without
prior written permission from the village.
      (6)   Order to show cause. The Village Manager may issue an order
requiring a person to appear and explain any noncompliance with the
requirements of this chapter or any permit, order, decision, or determination
promulgated, issued, or made under this chapter, and to show cause why more
severe enforcement actions against the person should not go forward. A show
cause hearing shall be held within ten days after the order to show cause is
issued, as follows:
         (a)   The Wastewater Board of Appeals shall conduct the hearing and
take evidence. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to require the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing.
         (b)   Any testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and
recorded. A copy of the transcript of the hearing shall be made available at
cost to any person upon payment of applicable charges for the transcript.
         (c)   After reviewing the evidence taken at the hearing, the
Wastewater Board of Appeals shall decide whether further enforcement action is
required and, if so, the nature and extent of that further action, including,
without limitation, the issuance of any order or imposition of any fines, fees,
surcharges, or penalties, as authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   Immediate response to order by user may be required. Any user issued
an order as provided by this section to immediately suspend its discharge to
the POTW shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge using whatever means
are necessary to do so, or take any other action as required by the order. If
the user fails to comply voluntarily with the order to immediately suspend its
discharge, the POTW shall take any action determined necessary as authorized by
this chapter, including, without limitation, immediate suspension of water
service and/or severance of the sewer connection or commencement of judicial
proceedings, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW or endangerment to
public health, safety, or the environment. The POTW may reinstate the
wastewater treatment service and terminate any judicial proceedings, as
applicable, upon satisfactory proof or other demonstration by the user that the
noncomplying discharge has been eliminated or will not reoccur. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
noncomplying discharge and the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence
shall be submitted to the Village Manager within 15 days of the occurrence.
   (D)   Noncompliance due to factors beyond user’s control. If noncompliance
with an order is unintentional and temporary and due to factors beyond the
reasonable control of a user, and the user can demonstrate the conditions
necessary for demonstration of an upset as provided by §
51.220(A), the Village Manager may modify the order or take other actions as
determined appropriate. However, a user shall not be relieved of liability for
noncompliance with an order to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed or inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (E)   Amendment, suspension and revocation of orders. An order shall be
subject to amendment, suspension or revocation as determined appropriate by the
Village Manager. Notice of the amendment, suspension or revocation shall be
served upon the person in the same manner as notice was provided for the
original order. An amendment, suspension, or revocation of an order shall be
subject to the same procedures for review and appeal as the original issuance
of the order, as provided by this chapter.
   (F)   Consent orders and agreements. The Village Manager may enter into a
consent order or agreement with a person to resolve disputed claims and address
identified and potential deficiencies in the person’s compliance status. The
order or agreement shall be in the form of a written agreement with the person
and may contain appropriate provisions, including, without limitation,
compliance schedules and stipulated fines and remedial actions.
   (G)   POTW authority to require financial assurances. The Village Manager
may require any user to post a performance bond (or other form of surety
acceptable to the Village Manager) sufficient to cover expenses (direct and/or
indirect) that might reasonably be incurred by the Village Manager as a result
of the user’s discharges to the POTW (including, but not limited to, the costs
to restore or repair any damage to the POTW) or sufficient to achieve
consistent compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as determined
necessary by the Village Manager. Further, any person that has in the prior two
years been responsible for causing interference or pass through at the POTW may
be required to obtain liability insurance sufficient to cover the reasonable
costs of responding or restoring the POTW in the event of a second such
incident. These financial assurance requirements may also be made conditions of
a user permit.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.313 SERVICE OF NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS, ORDERS, AND NOTICES OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter, all orders, notices
of violations, and notices of assessments shall be served upon persons and
shall contain the information as provided by this section.
   (A)   Service. Service shall be by personal delivery or certified mail
(return receipt requested), addressed to the user, alleged violator, or other
person, as applicable, at the person’s last known address as shown by POTW’s
records. The person served shall sign and date the order or notice and shall
return the signed original copy to the POTW; provided, that the failure to do
so shall not affect in any way the person’s obligation to comply with the order
or notice. Further, a notice or order served by mail may not actually be
received by the person, but this shall not nullify in any way any enforcement
action subsequently taken by the Village Manager against the person under
authority of this chapter. Receipt, or non-receipt, of a notice or order shall
not in any way relieve the affected person of any liability associated with the
violation. Further, the issuance of a notice or order will not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions by the village
against the affected person.
   (B)   Contents. All orders and notices shall contain at least the following
information, to the extent known by the Village Manager and as determined by
the Village Manager to be applicable to the situation:
      (1)   The name and address of the violator;
      (2)   The location and time that the violation occurred or was observed,
and the duration of the violation;
      (3)   The nature of the violation, including the provisions of this
chapter or of any permit, order, decision, determination, or agreement
violated;
      (4)   The basis for determining that a violation has occurred (personal
observation, pollutant analysis, etc.);
      (5)   The amount of the fine, penalty, cost, or charge assessed or due,
if any;
      (6)   The manner in which, and time and date by which, any fine, penalty,
cost, or charge must be paid, including any penalty or charge for late payment;
      (7)   The remedial action ordered, the time within which required actions
must be taken, and any consequences for failure to do so;
      (8)   The right to appeal the issuance of the order or notice and a
summary of the procedures for appeal, or other applicable administrative
procedures;
      (9)   The date and time the order or notice was issued.
   (C)   Request for additional information. A person served may request
additional information from the Village Manager regarding the contents or
requirements of any order or notice. However, a request for additional
information shall not extend the time for compliance with an order or notice.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.314 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The POTW shall publish once per year in the largest newspaper circulated in
the village, a list of non-domestic users that, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. For the purposes of this section, a user shall be
considered to be in significant noncompliance if its violations meet one or
more of the following criteria:
   (A)   Chronic violation of discharge limits, defined as results of analyses
in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement,
including instantaneous limits, for the same pollutant parameter.
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as results of
analyses in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and
1.2 for all other pollutants, except pH).
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (instantaneous
minimum, instantaneous maximum, daily maximum or long-term average, or
narrative standard) that the POTW determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of Department personnel or the general public).
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent the discharge.
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a permit or enforcement order, for starting
construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance.
   (F)   Failure to provide any required reports within 30 days after the due
date.
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, that the Village Manager determines
will adversely affect the POTW or the operation or implementation of the POTW’s
pretreatment program or this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.315 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as provided by §
51.316, and notwithstanding any other provision of the village’s laws,
ordinances and regulations to the contrary, a person who violates or fails to
comply with any provision of this chapter (including, without limitation, any
notice, order, permit, decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by
the Village Manager under this chapter) is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $1,000 per day
for each infraction and not more than $10,000 per day for each infraction, plus
costs and other sanctions.
   (B)   Repeat offenses; increased fines. Increased fines may be imposed for
repeat offenses. As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision of this chapter committed by a person within any one calendar year
period and for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible. The increased fine for a repeat offense under this chapter shall
be as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $2,500, plus costs.
      (2)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $5,000, plus costs.
   (C)   Amount of fines. Subject to the minimum fine amounts specified in
divisions (A) and (B), the following factors shall be considered by the village
or, if applicable, by the court in determining the amount of a municipal civil
infraction fine following the issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation
for a violation of this chapter: the type, nature, severity, frequency,
duration, preventability, potential and actual effect, and economic benefit to
the violator (such as delayed or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of a
violation; the violator’s recalcitrance or efforts to comply; the economic
impacts of the fine on the violator; and such other matters as justice may
require. A violator shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence and
degree of any mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount of
a fine. However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is
determined that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and
terminate all violations.
   (D)   Authorized local official. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
village’s laws, ordinances and regulations to the contrary, the following
persons are designated as the authorized local officials to issue municipal
civil infraction citations directing alleged violators to appear in district
court for violations of this chapter (or, if applicable, to issue municipal
civil infraction notices directing alleged violators to appear at a municipal
ordinance violations bureau): the Village Manager, any sworn law enforcement
officer, and any other persons so designated by the village.
   (E)   Other requirements and procedures. Except as otherwise provided by
this section, the requirements and procedures for commencing municipal civil
infraction actions; issuance and service of municipal civil infraction
citations; determination and collection of court-ordered fines, costs and
expenses; appearances and payment of fines and costs; failure to answer,
appear, or pay fines; disposition of fines, costs, and expenses paid; and other
matters regarding municipal civil infractions shall be as set forth in Public
Act 236 of 1961, as amended.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.316 CRIMINAL PENALTIES; IMPRISONMENT.
   (A)   Any person who:
      (1)   At the time of a violation knew or should have known that a
pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of this
chapter, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued or made by the Village Manager under this chapter; or
      (2)   Intentionally makes a false statement, representation, or
certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a permit, or in a
notice, report, or record required by this chapter, or in any other
correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the POTW regarding
matters regulated by this chapter; or
      (3)   Intentionally falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
chapter;
   (B)   Shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both
in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.317 CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Each act of violation, and each day or portion of a day that a violation of
this chapter (or of any permit, order, notice, or agreement issued or entered
into under this chapter) exists or occurs, constitutes a separate violation
subject to the fines, penalties and other sanctions and remedies as provided by
this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.318 NUMBER OF VIOLATIONS.
   The number of violations resulting from a user’s noncompliance with
applicable discharge prohibitions or effluent limitations shall be determined
as follows:
   (A)   Applicable concentration limitations and mass (or loading) limitations
shall be treated as separate limitations, and a user may be liable and
penalized separately for exceeding any of those limitations for a single
pollutant or sampling parameter.
   (B)   Each violation of a daily maximum limit for a single pollutant or
sampling parameter shall constitute a separate violation for each day on which
the violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Each violation of an instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum
limit for a single pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a separate
violation for each such occurrence, and there may be multiple violations for
each day on which such a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Each violation of a monthly average limit (or of some other average
limit period) for a single pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a
separate violation for each day of the month (or other stated period) during
which the violation occurred, regardless of the number of days on which samples
were actually taken. (For example, in a month with 31 days, a violation of the
monthly average limit for that month constitutes 31 violations for each
pollutant parameter for which the monthly average limit was exceeded during the
month.)
   (E)   Except with regard to violations of average limits as provided by
division (D), a violation will be deemed to have continued to occur each day
beginning with the first day the violation occurred to the day the user is able
to demonstrate through appropriate sampling results that the violation is no
longer occurring.
   (F)   If for any period a user has violated both a daily maximum limit and
an average limit for a particular pollutant parameter, then the total number of
violations is the sum of the days on which the daily maximum limit was violated
plus the number of days in the averaging period.
   (G)   If a user permit regulates more than one outfall, each outfall shall
be considered separately in computing the number of violations as provided by
this section.
   (H)   If a user is discharging a wastestream that is required to be
monitored and analyzed under continuous monitoring procedures, then all of the
following shall apply:
      (1)   If at any time during a daily 24-hour period the continuous
monitoring shows that the monitored parameter exceeded the instantaneous
minimum, instantaneous maximum, or daily maximum limit for that parameter, then
a violation has occurred.
      (2)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds the instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum,
during that period, then each such exceedance shall be considered a separate
violation.
      (3)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds the instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum,
or daily limit into the next daily 24-hour period (i.e., the exceedance occurs
both before and after midnight), then the exceedance will be considered a
separate violation on both days.
   (I)   One violation occurs:
      (1)   On each day that a report is late; and
      (2)   Each day after an action required to be completed is not completed.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.319 NUISANCE.
   A violation of this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice, or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter, is deemed to be a public nuisance
and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the village. In addition to any
other legal or equitable remedies available under the law, any person creating
a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of state law, this
chapter, or other ordinance of the village governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the village for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or
remedying said nuisance, as applicable.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.320 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who discharges to the POTW (including, but not
limited to, any person who causes or creates a discharge that violates any
provision of this chapter, produces a deposit or obstruction, or otherwise
damages, injures, or impairs the POTW, or causes or contributes to a violation
of any federal, state or local law governing the POTW, whether any such act is
intentional or unintentional) shall be liable to and shall fully reimburse the
village for all expenses, costs, losses or damages (direct or indirect) payable
or incurred by the village as a result of or associated with any such
discharge, deposit, obstruction, damage, injury, impairment, violation,
exceedence, noncompliance, or act. The costs that must be reimbursed to the
village shall include, but shall not be limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   All costs incurred by the village in responding to the violation
or discharge, including, expenses for any cleaning, repair or replacement work,
and the costs of sampling, monitoring, and treatment, as a result of the
discharge, violation, or noncompliance.
         (b)   All costs to the village of monitoring, surveillance, and
enforcement in connection with investigating, verifying, and prosecuting any
discharge, violation, or noncompliance.
         (c)   The full amount of any fines, assessments, penalties, and
claims, including natural resource damages, levied against the village, or any
village representative, by any governmental agency or third party as a result
of a violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit (or other applicable law or
regulation) that is caused by or contributed to by any discharge, violation, or
noncompliance.
         (d)   The full value of any village staff time (including any
administrative and overhead costs and any required overtime), consultant and
engineering fees, and actual attorney fees and defense costs (including the
POTW’s legal counsel and any special legal counsel), associated with reviewing,
responding to, investigating, verifying, and/or prosecuting any discharge,
violation, or noncompliance, or otherwise incurred by the Village Manager in
administering and enforcing the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Further, the POTW is authorized to correct any violation of this
chapter or damage or impairment to the POTW caused by a discharge and to bill
the person causing the violation or discharge for the amounts to be reimbursed.
The costs reimbursable under this section shall be in addition to fees, amounts
or other costs and expenses required to be paid by users under other sections
of this chapter.
   (B)   In determining the amounts to be reimbursed, the POTW may consider
factors such as, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The volume of the discharge.
      (2)   The length of time the discharge occurred.
      (3)   The composition of the discharge.
      (4)   The nature, extent, and degree of success the POTW may achieve in
minimizing or mitigating the effect of the discharge.
      (5)   The toxicity, degradability, treatability, and dispersal
characteristics of the discharge.
      (6)   The direct and indirect costs incurred by the Village Manager, or
imposed upon the POTW to treat the discharges, including sludge handling and
disposal costs.
      (7)   Fines, assessments, levies, charges, expenses, and penalties
imposed upon and/or incurred by the Village Manager, including the POTW’s costs
of defense of actions, or suits brought or threatened against the POTW by
governmental agencies or third parties.
      (8)   Such other factors, including the amount of any attorney’s fees;
engineering, consultant, and expert fees; expenses, costs, sampling, and
analytical fees; and repairs, as the POTW deems appropriate under the
circumstances.
   (C)   Costs to be reimbursed to the POTW as provided by this section may be
assessed to the user as provided by 51.313 of this chapter, or as otherwise
determined appropriate by the Village Manager in conjunction with an
enforcement action.
   (D)   The failure by any person to pay any amounts required to be reimbursed
to the POTW as provided by this section shall constitute an additional
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.321 REVIEW OR APPROVAL BY VILLAGE.
   In no case shall the review and/or approval by the village of a user’s
plans, specifications or operating procedures entitle a user to relief from
enforcement actions for failure to achieve compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.322 SEVERANCE OR SUSPENSION OF SEWER AND/OR WATER SERVICE.
   If a user violates or continues to violate any provision of this chapter
(including, without limitation, any notice, order, permit, decision or
determination promulgated, issued, or made by the Village Manager under this
chapter), or if the village determines that the user’s actual or proposed
discharge may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons or the environment, the Village Manager may immediately, and
without notice, sever or suspend sewer and/or water service provided to the
user by the village. If severed or suspended, the sewer and/or water service
shall recommence only after the user has satisfactorily demonstrated to the
Village Manager the user’s ability to comply with all applicable provisions of
this chapter, and only at the user’s sole expense.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.323 JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   With the approval of the village, in conjunction with the village’s legal
counsel, the Village Manager may institute legal proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to seek all appropriate relief for violations of this
chapter or of any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered into
under this chapter. The action may seek temporary or permanent injunctive
relief, damages, penalties, costs, and any other relief, at law or equity, that
a court may order. The Village Manager may also seek collection of surcharges,
fines, penalties, and any other amounts due to the POTW that a person has not
paid.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.324 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The imposition of a single penalty, fine, notice, order, damage, or
surcharge upon any person for a violation of this chapter, or of any permit,
order, notice, or agreement issued or entered into under this chapter, shall
not preclude (or be a prerequisite for) the imposition by the Village Manager
or a court of competent jurisdiction of a combination of any or all of those
sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions and remedies with respect to the
same violation, consistent with applicable limitations on penalty amounts under
state or federal laws or regulations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a
criminal action against a person shall not be dependent upon and need not be
held in abeyance during any civil, judicial, or administrative proceeding,
conference, or hearing regarding the person.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEALS ****
§ 51.340 PROCEDURES AVAILABLE.
   Any person aggrieved by a notice of violation, order, final decision, final
determination, or other final action taken by the Village Manager under this
chapter may request an informal review and reconsideration of the action by the
Village Manager as provided by this section. Following the Village Manager’s
informal review and reconsideration, the person aggrieved may appeal the
Village Manager’s final decision to the Wastewater Board of Appeals (“WBA”) as
provided by this section. The person requesting the appeal shall pay an appeal
fee in the amount determined from time to time by the village. The appeal fee
shall be paid at the time that the request for informal review/reconsideration
or appeal is requested. If a request for informal review and reconsideration by
the Village Manager or an appeal to the WBA is not properly and timely
requested, including payment in full of the appeal fee and submission of all
required supporting documents and information as provided by this section, the
right to request a review and appeal shall be deemed waived and the action
shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.341 INFORMAL REVIEW AND RECONSIDERATION BY THE VILLAGE MANAGER.
   A request for a review and reconsideration by the Village Manager of an
action taken by the Village Manager shall be made in writing within ten
calendar days from the date of the Village Manager’s action in question. The
request shall state the reasons for the review and shall include all supporting
documents and dates. A hearing on the request shall be scheduled at the
earliest practicable date as determined by the Village Manager, as applicable.
The hearing shall be conducted by the Village Manager on an informal basis at
the WWSL or at another location designated by the Village Manager. Following
the informal hearing, the Village Manager may affirm or reverse, in whole or in
part, the action appealed from, or may make any order, requirement,
determination, or decision (these actions by the Village Manager are
hereinafter collectively referred to as the Village Manager’s FINAL DECISION)
that in the Village Manager’s opinion ought to be made in the case under
consideration. The aggrieved person shall be notified of the Village Manager’s
final decision within 30 calendar days of the hearing. The Village Manager may
request additional information and extend the time for the final decision by up
to an additional 30 calendar days following the submission of all of the
additional requested information. The Village Manager’s final decision may be
appealed to the WBA as provided by §
51.342. All supporting documentation and information shall be provided solely
by the person requesting the appeal (the APPELLANT), at the appellant’s sole
cost.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.342 FORMAL APPEAL TO WASTEWATER BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The WBA shall consider appeals from final decisions of the Village
Manager (and other appeals as expressly provided by this chapter).
   (B)   The WBA shall be comprised of five members appointed from time-to-time
by the Village Council on an as-needed basis. The members of the WBA shall have
the technical expertise and backgrounds sufficient to enable them to consider
and decide the matters brought before them consistent with good utility
practices. At least one of the members of the WBA shall be a Michigan licensed
engineer. No member of the WBA shall be an employee of the village’s Public
Services Department.
   (C)   A member of the WBA with a conflict of interest (direct or indirect;
personal or professional, or financial) with respect to the matter on appeal
shall not participate in any hearing, any discussion, or any decision on that
matter. Before participating in a hearing, any discussion, or any decision on a
matter on which a member may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of
interest, the member shall disclose the potential conflict of interest to the
Village Manager. If a member is uncertain regarding a potential conflict of
interest, the Village Attorney shall make a determination prior to the hearing
of the matter and communicate that determination to the member and the Village
Manager. If it is determined that one or more of the current WBA members has a
conflict of interest, the Village Manager shall appoint alternate members that
do not have conflicts of interest to hear the appeal in question.
   (D)   The WBA may adopt its own rules of procedure, and shall keep a record
of its proceedings, showing findings of fact, the action of the board, and the
vote of each member upon each question considered. The presence of three
members of the WBA shall be necessary to constitute a quorum. All decisions of
the WBA shall require a majority vote of those members present at a scheduled
meeting for which a quorum exists.
   (E)   The following provisions shall govern appeals of final decisions of
the Village Manager made to the WBA under this chapter:
      (1)   A request for an informal review and reconsideration leading to a
final decision of the Village Manager as provided by §
51.341 shall be required before an appeal of any action of the Village Manager
may be made to the WBA as provided by this section.
      (2)   An appeal from any final decision of the Village Manager shall be
made to the WBA within ten calendar days from the date of the Village Manager’s
final decision being appealed. The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved
by the Village Manager’s final decision. The appellant shall file a written
notice of appeal with the WBA. The notice of appeal shall specify in detail the
grounds for the appeal and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable appeal fee
in the amount set from time to time by the village.
      (3)   Prior to a hearing before the WBA regarding an appeal, the Village
Manager shall transmit to the WBA a written summary of all previous action
taken in connection with the final decision being appealed. The WBA may, at the
WBA’s discretion, request the Village Manager to provide further information
regarding the final decision that is the subject of the appeal and may require
the appellant to submit further documents and information in support of the
appeal.
      (4)   The WBA shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided to the appellant at least ten calendar
days in advance of the hearing to require the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in the
hearing. The appellant shall submit an exhibit and witness list to the WBA at
least five calendar days before the hearing or as otherwise directed by the
WBA.
      (5)   The WBA shall conduct the hearing. At the hearing, attorneys may
represent the WBA and the appellant and they may file briefs, present evidence,
and call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses (provided that no party to the
hearing shall be required to be represented by an attorney, and may represent
himself/herself). Any testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and
recorded unless the oath or recording are waived by agreement of the WBA and
appellant. A copy of the transcript of the hearing (and/or a recording, if
made) shall be made available at cost to any person upon payment of applicable
charges for the transcription or recording.
      (6)   The WBA shall admit all testimony having reasonable probative value
and shall exclude irrelevant or unduly repetitious testimony, as determined by
the WBA. The WBA shall not be bound by common law or statutory rules of
evidence. The appellant shall have the burden of proof and persuasion for
showing that the decision being appealed was clearly erroneous.
      (7)   Within 30 days after the completion of the hearing, the WBA shall
mail or otherwise deliver to the appellant a written decision granting,
denying, or modifying the final decision of the Village Manager that was the
subject of the appeal. The decision of the WBA on the matter shall be final and
shall be a final determination for purposes of judicial review.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.343 PAYMENT OF CHARGES, PENALTIES, FINES, AND OTHER COSTS OR FEES.
   All service charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs, or expenses
outstanding during any appeal process shall be due and payable to the village,
as applicable. Further, if the Village Manager’s decision that was reviewed or
appealed is upheld, the person that requested the review and/or appeal shall
pay all of the costs incurred by the village in conducting the review and/or
appeal, including, but not limited to, any applicable sampling and analytical
costs, legal and engineering consultant costs, and costs of transcription and
recording. If the Village Manager’s decision is only partially upheld or
reversed, upon resolution of the review and/or appeal, any amounts due and
payable to the village shall be equitably adjusted accordingly, provided that
any refunds of any amounts already paid to the village by the appellant shall
be retroactive to the previous four monthly billings only. In no case shall any
portion of the appeal fee be refunded. The POTW may terminate wastewater
treatment services if a corrective course of action is not taken or if service
charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs, or expenses are not paid by
a user.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.344 FINALITY OF ACTION.
   If a review or appeal is not demanded as provided by this section within the
periods specified by this section, the Village Manager’s action shall be deemed
final. If a review or appeal is properly demanded, the action in question shall
be suspended until a final determination has been made by the Village Manager
or WBA, as applicable, except for orders to immediately cease and desist
discharge; orders to terminate sewer services; other emergency orders or
actions where a suspension or delay might endanger human health, the
environment, or the POTW; and as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter
(such as for permit appeals, see §
51.123).
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.345 APPEALS FROM DETERMINATION OF WASTEWATER BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Appeals from a final determination of the WBA may be made to a court of
competent jurisdiction as provided by law. All findings of fact made by the
WBA, if supported by the evidence, shall be deemed conclusive.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE ****
§ 51.360 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to maliciously or willfully break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with, climb upon, or enter any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment that is part of the POTW. Any person
violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct; shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to
90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court; and shall be subject to other
sanctions and remedies as provided by this chapter, including, but not limited
to, reimbursement of the POTW as provided by §
51.320.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** MUNICIPAL LIABILITY ****
§ 51.370 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the POTW nor the village (including, but not limited to, village
staff, employees, and officials) shall be responsible for interruptions of
service due to natural calamities, equipment failures, or the actions of users.
It shall be the responsibility of the users that all connected equipment remain
in good working order so as not to cause disruption of service of any sewer or
treatment plant equipment.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS CONDITIONAL ****
§ 51.380 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS CONDITIONAL.
   The use of the public sewer is conditional upon the user complying with all
applicable provisions of this chapter, the rules and regulations promulgated
pursuant to this chapter, user permits and all other applicable federal, state,
and local laws, rules, regulations, standards, and requirements. Use of the
public sewer is also conditional upon the payment of all applicable charges,
surcharges, rates, fees, and penalties.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FEES ****
§ 51.390 PURPOSE.
   It is a purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery from users of
the POTW of all costs incurred by the Village Manager for the administration
and implementation by the Village Manager of the industrial pretreatment
program (IPP) established by this chapter. The IPP fees provided for by this
section are separate from, and in addition to, amounts chargeable to users for
sewage disposal services by the village and/or the POTW, and costs required to
be reimbursed to the village and/or the POTW under any other provisions of this
chapter or other laws and regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.391 IPP FEES.
   IPP fees payable by users shall be established by the village, and shall be
subject to amendment or revision by the village from time to time. Such fees
shall be sufficient to meet the costs to administer and implement the village’s
IPP and any associated regulations and written procedures as provided by this
chapter and authorized by applicable law. IPP fees may include, but shall not
be limited to, any of the following:
   (A)   Fees to reimburse the POTW for the costs of development and operation
of an industrial pretreatment program, and fees to reimburse the POTW for
monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures, including expenses
incurred for analysis of samples.
   (B)   Fees for reviewing discharge reports and for related enforcement
procedures.
   (C)   Fees associated with permit applications, permit renewals, and permit
transfers.
   (D)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
   (E)   Fees for appeals filed under this chapter.
   (F)   Such other charges or fees that the village deems necessary or
required to fully perform the provisions of applicable federal and state laws
or regulations, this chapter, and other village laws or regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.392 IPP FEE AMOUNTS.
   (A)   IPP fees shall be paid by users to the POTW in amounts determined
necessary by the Village Manager from time to time to reimburse the POTW for
all costs and expenses incurred by the Village Manager in administering the
IPP. To the extent practical, the fees shall be set in an amount to include at
least the POTW’s average total costs for that purpose. With regard to IPP
activities undertaken by the Village Manager with regard to particular users,
the fees shall be charged to the users on a time and materials basis,
including, but not limited to, the full value of any village staff time
(including any administrative and overhead costs and any required overtime),
consultant and engineering fees, testing fees, and actual attorney fees and
defense costs, plus general administrative expenses, based on the nature and
requirements of the IPP activities undertaken for each user.
   (B)   If the POTW determines that it is necessary to evaluate the ability or
capacity of the POTW to accept any current or proposed discharge by means,
including, but not limited to, a headworks analysis or treatability study, all
such evaluation and analysis or other required work shall be at the sole cost
of the user. Such costs shall be paid in full by the user according to the
timetable and subject to any terms or conditions established by the Village
Manager and shall be paid whether or not the discharge (or any part thereof) is
ultimately approved. The Village Manager may require the user to post a deposit
or other form of surety, as determined sufficient and appropriate by the
Village Manager, to ensure payment by the user of all such costs.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.393 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Surcharges are intended to reimburse the POTW for all costs incurred
by the Village Manager in handling or treating a discharge that contains
pollutants in excess of specified surcharge concentrations, loadings, or other
applicable limits. These costs may include, but are not limited to, the actual
cost of treatment including chemical, equipment, and personnel costs.
   (B)   Any user exceeding applicable surcharge thresholds shall be subject to
the imposition of one or more surcharges as provided by this section to
reimburse the POTW for any costs or expenses, direct or indirect, the POTW may
incur in handling or treating the discharge, or which may be imposed upon the
POTW, where the exceedence of applicable limits causes or contributes to those
costs or expenses.
   (C)   The village may establish surcharge thresholds and surcharge rates for
BOD, COD, and TSS and any other pollutant parameter for which a surcharge is
determined appropriate by the Village Manager. These surcharge thresholds and
rates shall be reviewed, calculated, and determined from time to time, as
determined appropriate by the village.
   (D)   All violations of applicable discharge prohibitions and limitations
and all instances of noncompliance with applicable discharge requirements shall
constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to applicable fines, penalties
and other enforcement actions provided by this chapter. In no event shall the
imposition of a surcharge for a discharge that does not meet the applicable
prohibitions, limitations, or requirements be construed as authorizing the
illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.394 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF IPP FEES.
   User permit application fees shall be due upon submission of permit
applications. Except as otherwise required by the Village Manager, all other
IPP fees shall be due within 30 days of the date of the activity or service for
which the fee is required. For fees not paid at the time of service, the amount
of the fee shall be added to the user’s sewage disposal service charges or
billed separately. IPP fees provided for by this section, including, but not
limited to, surcharges, shall be otherwise billed, collected, and enforced
pursuant to the procedures for sewer service charges, rates, and fees as
provided by §§
51.410 through
51.415 and other applicable village laws or regulations.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
**** SEWER SERVICE CHARGES, RATES, AND FEES ****
§ 51.410 USER RATES AND CHARGES FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT SERVICE; GENERAL.
   (A)   The sanitary sewer system of the village shall be operated and
maintained on a public utility basis as authorized by law. Each premises within
the village connected to and using facilities of the sanitary sewer system
shall pay user charges, rates, and fees as fixed and established from time to
time by resolution of the Village Council. Those charges, rates, and fees shall
be billed, collected, and enforced pursuant to the procedures for sewer service
charges, rates, and fees as provided by this subchapter and other applicable
village laws, regulations, and resolutions.
   (B)   Charges for wastewater treatment services furnished to premises
outside the corporate limits of the village shall be fixed by agreement between
the village and the governmental unit receiving the service.
   (C)   No free service shall be furnished by the sanitary sewer system to the
village or to any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, or to any
public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.411 RATES.
   (A)   Monthly rates and any associated charges for the use and services
furnished by the village sewer system shall be as provided herein.
   (B)   Sewer charges for all customers shall be based on a minimum charge
(hereafter READY TO SERVE CHARGE) plus the quantity of water used as measured
by the respective village municipal water supply meters, for each billing
period, except as otherwise provided.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, a SINGLE RESIDENCE is defined as
a house, apartment, mobile home, trailer, condominium, or other permanent
construction, having kitchen and/or toilet facilities, in which a person or
family live in an individual or private state apart from other persons
primarily as a place of residence per unit.
      (2)   Other customers are comprised of units or dwellings designed for
multiple person occupancy either by single apartments or other multi-family
dwellings, individual shops, stores, businesses, restaurants, coin washers,
gasoline service stations, tourist homes, and other nonresidential buildings.
      (3)   For those multi-unit premises whose water is measured jointly by
one water meter, the ready to serve charge shall be applicable to each separate
unit on the multi-unit premises. Usage charges shall also apply.
      (4)   For the purposes of establishing billing charges for sewer usage on
a per month basis, each customer’s water meter shall receive either an actual
meter reading, at least once per quarter, weather permitting, or an estimated
reading based on the average water usage over a period of time. Following an
estimated reading, a customer’s billing may be adjusted either up or down when
the following actual reading is taken.
      (5)   For temporary customers such as contractors or for construction
purposes and the like, sewer service that is provided shall be charged on the
basis of the below stated ready to serve charge (prorated) and usage rates.
When a water meter is installed for such purposes, the ready to serve charge
and sewer usage rates shall apply and the temporary user shall pay for the
installation and removal of the meter, and shall be responsible for said meter
and appurtenances.
   (C)   (1)   Monthly sewer rates of the village customers shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the Village Council, including, but not limited
to, ready to serve charges, additional usage rates per gallons used based on
meter size, and sewer flat rates.
      (2)   The sewer rates established shall be sufficient to provide for the
payment of expenses of administration and for the operation, maintenance and
replacement of the sewer disposal system as are necessary to preserve the same
in good repair and in good working order, to provide for the payment of
contractual obligations of the village to the state and/or federal government
pursuant to statute and contractual obligations as they become due and to
provide for such other expenditures and funds for the sewer system as this
section may require.
   (D)   (1)   All applications for sewer service attachments to the sewer
collection piping for the purposes of collecting sanitary sewage from the
premises, as well as application for the sewer must be made at the village
offices by the owner of the premises from which the sanitary sewage is proposed
to be collected. The application for sewer service shall be upon forms
prescribed by the village and signed by the prospective customer or an
authorized agent.
      (2)   The prospective customer shall pay in advance for the sewer service
hook-up, as the minimum charge; charges for service piping, backhoe services,
operator service, and all labor shall be accounted for, then the complete cost
of the attachment shall be charged to the customer on a cost plus basis upon
completion. Charges for equipment and labor are in addition to the tap charges.
      (3)   A sewer tap charge shall be in the amount as established from time
to time by resolution of the Village Council.
   (E)   Special rates for miscellaneous services shall be established and
fixed by the Village Council from time to time.
   (F)   (1)   The following non-recurring charges shall be made for those
transactions and/or services provided by the Water Department in the amounts as
established from time to time by resolution of the Village Council:
         (a)   Service charges.
         (b)   Equipment charges.
      (2)   Requests for adjustments of sewer billings shall be made in writing
to the village within 30 days of the date of the billing. Adjustments will be
made only for clerical errors, misreads or unexplained failure of village-owned
equipment; there will be no adjustments made for leaks, pool fills, or other
causes within the control or responsibility of the property owner. Adjustments
may be made for one pool fill per property per year upon prior written request
of the property owner to the village.
   (G)   The village shall review the rate structure annually and shall adjust
the fixed charges, usage charges, fees, and other customer charges to generate
adequate revenues and maintain a proportionate system of customer charges. This
shall be accomplished by a resolution of the Village Council after a public
hearing thereon.
   (H)   (1)   Bills will be rendered monthly and shall be immediately due and
payable and may be paid without penalty up to and including the last day of the
month when rendered. If the bill is not paid in full on or before the last day
of the month in which the bill is rendered, a penalty of 10% on the unpaid
balance shall be added.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right to
shut off water service to any premise for which water and sewer services have
not been paid by the last day of the following month and such service shall not
be reestablished until all delinquent charges, penalties, and turn-off and
turn-on charges have been paid. Charges and penalties may be recovered through
court action.
   (I)   Collection of all sewer system charges, fees, penalties, and any
assessment issued in accordance with any provision of this section as adopted
by the Village Council shall be performed by the Water Clerk or other
appropriately designated village employee, as provided by applicable law, and
deposited in an approved financial intuition.
   (J)   Charges for services furnished to a premises may be a lien on the
premises, and those charges delinquent for six months or more may be certified
annually to the proper tax assessing officer or agency who shall enter the lien
on the next tax roll against the premises to which the services shall have been
rendered, and the charges shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in
the same manner as provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll
and the enforcement of the lien for the taxes. The time and manner of
certification and other details in respect to the collection of the charges and
the enforcement of the lien shall be prescribed by an ordinance adopted by the
village. However, in a case when a tenant is responsible for the payment of the
charges and the village is so notified in writing, the notice to include a copy
of the lease of the affected premises, if there is one, then the charges shall
not become a lien against the premises after the date of the notice. In the
event of filing of the notice, the public corporation shall render no further
service to the premises until a cash deposit of not less than one full year’s
service shall have been made as security for the payment of the charges. In
addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the payment of charges for
sewer service to any premises may be enforced by discontinuing the water
service to the premises and the payment of charges for sewage disposal service
or storm water disposal service to a premises may be enforced by discontinuing
the water service, the sewage disposal service or the storm water disposal
service to the premises, or any combination of the services.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.412 RATES TO PROVIDE FOR EXPENSES; ANNUAL RATE REVIEW.
   (A)   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of the expenses of administration and operation, such expenses for
maintenance of the said system as are necessary to preserve the same in good
repair and working order, to provide for the payment of the contractual
obligations of the village as the same become due, and to provide for such
other expenditures and funds for said system as this subchapter may require.
   (B)   Such rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time, by resolution
of the Village Council after a public hearing thereon, as may be necessary to
produce these amounts. The village shall review the rate structure annually and
adjust the capital charges and user charges to generate adequate revenues and
maintain a proportionate system of user charges (user charges must reflect the
costs incurred by the village to provide each user with treatment services).
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.413 OPERATING YEAR OF SYSTEM.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of an operating year commencing on
October 1 and ending on September 30 next following.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.414 REVENUES TO BE DEPOSITED INTO RECEIVING FUND.
   The revenues of the system shall be set aside, as collected, and deposited
in a separate depository account in The Bank of Three Oaks, a bank duly
qualified to do business in the state, in an account to be designated Sewage
Disposal System Receiving Fund (hereinafter, for brevity, referred to as the
RECEIVING FUND), and said revenues so deposited shall be transferred from the
Receiving Fund periodically in the manner and at the times hereafter specified.
   (A)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the Receiving
Fund, there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depositary account,
designated Operation and Maintenance Fund, a sum sufficient to provide for the
payment of the next quarter’s current expenses of administration and operation
of the system and such current expenses for the maintenance thereof as may be
necessary to preserve the same in good repair and work order. EQUIPMENT
REPLACEMENT means expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. Replacement is an operation and maintenance
expense.
   (B)   Contract Payment Fund. There shall next be established and maintained
a depository account, to be designated Contract Payment Fund, which shall be
used solely for the payment of the village’s obligations to the county pursuant
to the aforesaid contract. There shall be deposited in said fund quarterly,
after requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been met, such
sums as shall be necessary to pay said contractual obligations when due. Should
the revenues of the system prove insufficient for this purpose, such revenues
may be supplemented by any other fund of the village legally available for such
purpose.
   (C)   Replacement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained a
depository account designated Replacement Fund, which shall be used solely for
the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the system, if needed.
There shall be set aside into said fund, after provision has been made for the
Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Contract Payment Fund, such revenues as
the Village Council shall deem necessary for this purpose.
   (D)   Improvement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained an
Improvement Fund for the purpose of making improvements, extensions, and
enlargements to the system. There shall be deposited into said fund, after
providing for the foregoing fund, such revenues as the Village Council shall
determine.
   (E)   Surplus monies. Monies remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of
any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of the
foregoing funds, may, at the option of the Village Council, be transferred to
the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other project of the
village reasonably related to purposes of the system.
   (F)   Bank accounts. All money belonging to any of the foregoing funds or
accounts may be kept in one bank account, in which event the monies shall be
allocated on the books and records of the village within this single bank
account, in the manner above set forth.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.415 TRANSFER OF MONIES.
   In the event the monies in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to provide
for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any monies
and/or securities in other funds of the system, except sums in the Contract
Payment Fund derived from special assessments or tax levies, shall be
transferred to the Operation and Maintenance Fund, to the extent of any deficit
therein. User charges for operation, maintenance and equipment replacement
shall be immediately adjusted to reflect increased costs and defray amounts
borrowed from other funds.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 51.416 INVESTMENTS.
   Monies in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
subchapter may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in
the manner and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.140, as amended. In the event such
investments are made, the securities representing the same shall be kept on
deposit with the bank or trust company having on deposit the fund or funds from
which such purchase was made. Income received from such investments shall be
credited to the fund from which said investments were made.
(Ord. 230, passed 8-9-2023)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water System Operation and Rates
   
52.01   Rates and charges established in this subchapter
   
52.02   Basis of charges
   
52.03   Monthly water rates
   
52.04   Applications for water service
   
52.05   Special rates may be adopted by Village Council
   
52.06   Non-recurring charges; requests for adjustments
   
52.07   Annual rate review
   
52.08   Billing; penalty for late payment
   
52.09   Collections by Village Water Clerk
   
52.10   Charges a lien on premises
   
52.11   Tampering or interfering with waterworks property
   
52.12   Conflicting provisions
Private Wells
   
52.25   Private well defined
   
52.26   Prohibitions; permits
   
52.27   Temporary use
   
52.28   Property split or conveyance
   
52.29   Modification notice
Additional Regulations
   
52.40   Prohibiting the addition of fluoride to drinking water
   
52.41   Source of contamination or pollution prohibited
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** WATER SYSTEM OPERATION AND RATES ****
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED IN THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Monthly rates and any associated charges for the use and services furnished
by the village water system shall be as provided herein.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.02 BASIS OF CHARGES.
   Water charges for all customers shall be based on a minimum charge
(hereafter “ready to serve charge”) plus the quantity of water used as measured
by the respective village municipal water supply meters, for each billing
period, except as otherwise provided.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a SINGLE RESIDENCE is defined as
a house, apartment, mobile home, trailer, condominium or other permanent
construction, having kitchen and/or toilet facilities, in which a person or
family live in an individual or private state apart from other persons
primarily as a place of residence per unit.
   (B)   Other customers are comprised of units or dwellings designed for
multiple-person occupancy either by single apartments or other multi-family
dwellings, individual shops, stores, businesses, restaurants, coin washers,
gasoline service stations, tourist homes and other nonresidential buildings.
   (C)   For those multi-unit premises whose water is measured jointly by one
water meter, the ready to serve charge shall be applicable to each separate
unit on the multi-unit premises. Usage charges shall also apply.
   (D)   For the purposes of establishing billing charges for water usage on a
per month basis, each customer’s meter shall receive either an actual meter
reading, at least one per quarter weather permitting, or an estimated reading
based on the average water usage over a period of time. Following an estimated
reading, a customer’s billing may be adjusted either up or down when the
following actual reading is taken.
   (E)   For temporary customers such as contractors or for construction
purposes, and the like; water service that is provided shall be charged on the
basis of the below stated ready to serve charge (pro rated) and usage rates.
When a water meter is installed for such purposes, the ready to serve charge
and water usage rates shall apply and the temporary user shall pay for the
installation and removal of the meter, and shall be responsible for said meter
and appurtenances.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009; Ord. 196, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 52.03 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   (A)   Monthly water rates of village customers.
 
Ready to serve charge                                  $30
Additional usage rate per 1,000 gallons:                
total per 1,000 gallons up to 100,000 gallons          $6.41
Additional usage rate per 1,000 gallons: above 100,000 $4.68
gallons
Fire protection, public hydrants                       $8.33 per hydrant
 
   (B)   The above stated rates are established to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of expenses of administration and for the operation, maintenance
and replacement of the waterworks system as are necessary to preserve the same
in good repair and in good working order, to provide for the payment of
contractual obligations of the village to the state and/or federal government
pursuant to statute and contractual obligations as they become due and to
provide for such other expenditures and funds for the water system as this
subchapter may require.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009; Ord. 190, passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 213, passed 10-
11-2017; Ord. 224, passed 8-11-2021)
§ 52.04 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   All applications for water service attachments to the water
distribution piping for the purposes of introducing water from the waterworks
system into any premises, as well as application for the water must be made at
the village offices by the owner of the premises into which the water is
proposed to be introduced. The application for water service shall be upon
forms prescribed by the village and signed by the prospective customer or an
authorized agent.
   (B)   The prospective customer shall pay in advance for the following water
service tap charges, as the minimum charges, which will include only a
corporation stop, curb stop, service box and appurtenances for the attachment;
charges for service piping, backhoe services, operator service and all labor
shall be accounted for, then the complete cost of the attachment shall be
charged to the customer on a cost-plus basis upon completion. Charges for
equipment and labor are in addition to the tap charges.
 
Water Service Tap Charges
5/8 to 1 inch           $2,200
over 1 inch to 2 inches $7,800
over 2 inches           Contact village office for quote
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.05 SPECIAL RATES MAY BE ADOPTED BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Special rates for miscellaneous services shall be established and fixed by
the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.06 NON-RECURRING CHARGES; REQUESTS FOR ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The following non-recurring charges shall be made for those
transactions and/or services provided by the Water Department:
 
                               Per equipment rental schedule utilized by the
Equipment charge:              village to comply with Public Act 51 of 1951
                               (State Transportation Law)
Meter turn-on/turn-off orders: $25 flat fee
Service charge:                Two times the actual hourly rate labor rate
 
   (B)   Requests for adjustments of water billings shall be made in writing to
the village within 30 days of the date of the billing. Adjustments will be made
only for clerical errors, misreads or unexplained failure of village-owned
equipment; there will be no adjustments made for leaks, pool fills or other
causes within the control or responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.07 ANNUAL RATE REVIEW.
   The village shall review the rate structure annually and shall adjust the
fixed charges, usage charges, fees and other customer charges to generate
adequate revenues and maintain proportionate system of customer charges. This
shall be accomplished by a resolution of the Village Council after a public
hearing thereon.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.08 BILLING; PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills will be rendered monthly and shall be immediately due and
payable and may be paid without penalty up to and including the last day of the
month when rendered. If the bill is not paid in full on or before the last day
of the month in which the bill is rendered, a penalty of 10% on the unpaid
balance shall be added.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right to shut
off water service to any premise for which water and sewer services have not
been paid by the last day of the following month and such service shall not be
reestablished until all delinquent charges, penalties and turn-off and turn-on
charges have been paid. Charges and penalties may be recovered through court
action.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.09 COLLECTIONS BY VILLAGE WATER CLERK.
   Collection of all water system charges, fees, penalties and any assessment
issued in accordance with any provision of this subchapter as adopted by the
Village Council shall be performed by the Water Clerk or other appropriately
designated village employee, as provided by applicable law and deposited in an
approved financial intuition.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.10 CHARGES A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   Charges for services furnished to a premises may be a lien on the premises,
and those charges delinquent for six months or more may be certified annually
to the proper tax assessing officer or agency who shall enter the lien on the
next tax roll against the premises to which the services shall have been
rendered, and the charges shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in
the same manner as provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll
and the enforcement of the lien for the taxes. The time and manner of
certification and other details in respect to the collection of the charges and
the enforcement of the lien shall be prescribed by an ordinance adopted by the
village. However, in a case when a tenant is responsible for the payment of the
charges and the village is so notified in writing, the notice to include a copy
of the lease of the affected premises, if there is one, then the charges shall
not become a lien against the premises after the date of the notice. In the
event of filing of the notice, the public corporation shall render no further
service to the premises until a cash deposit in a sum fixed in the ordinance
authorizing the issuance of bonds under this act is made as security for the
payment of the charges. In addition to any other lawful enforcement methods,
the payment of charges for water service to any premises may be enforced by
discontinuing the water service to the premises and the payment of charges for
sewage disposal service or storm water disposal service to a premises may be
enforced by discontinuing the water service, the sewage disposal service, or
the storm water disposal service to the premises, or any combination of the
services.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
Statutory reference:
   The Revenue Bond Act, see Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. §
141.121
§ 52.11 TAMPERING OR INTERFERING WITH WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person other than the Water Department Superintendent, his or her
designee or person authorized by the Village Council or Village Manager may
adjust, alter or otherwise exert dominion over the village waterworks property.
   (B)   In addition to any fines and penalties, any person found to have
committed the above named acts with respect to village property shall be
responsible for replacing the damaged property and any labor associated with
replacement or repair.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.12 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All prior ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict with the
subject matter of this subchapter are hereby repealed in their entirety.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
**** PRIVATE WELLS ****
§ 52.25 PRIVATE WELL DEFINED.
   A PRIVATE WELL is defined as an opening in the surface of earth for the
purpose of removing water through mechanical or non-mechanical means for any
purpose except construction site dewatering or conducting response activity,
including sampling or treatment of the groundwater, under a plan approved by
the State Department of Environmental Quality. These exceptions apply only when
all necessary permits have been obtained for the well in question.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 52.26 PROHIBITIONS; PERMITS.
   No person shall install a private well, without first obtaining a permit
from the Department of Public Works. No permit for a private well shall be
issued where village water is available within 200 feet of the property. If
municipal water service is unavailable within 200 feet of any developable
parcel, a private well may be permitted if the well water is tested annually
and approved for human consumption by the State Department of Environmental
Quality, Drinking Water and Radiological Protection Division or the County
Health Department, and if written proof of such annual approval is delivered to
the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 TEMPORARY USE.
   A well meeting the above criteria may be used temporarily for water until
the village water service is available within 200 feet of the property, at
which time the well shall be properly capped and abandoned and proper hook-up
to the village water system shall be required. The cost of proper abandonment
of a well that was temporarily allowed under this section and proper hookup to
the village water system shall be the owner’s responsibility.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 52.28 PROPERTY SPLIT OR CONVEYANCE.
   No split or conveyance of any property shall be effective to render village
water service unavailable.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 52.29 MODIFICATION NOTICE.
   At least 30 days prior to adopting a modification of this subchapter or 30
days prior to the lapsing or revocation of this subchapter, the village shall
notify the Director of the State Department of Environmental Quality by
registered mail.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
**** ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 52.40 PROHIBITING THE ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO DRINKING WATER.
   The addition of fluoride to the drinking water of the municipal water system
of the village is hereby expressly prohibited. The specific purpose of this
section is to exempt the water system of the village from the provisions of
Public Act 346 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.191 and 325.192, which Act makes
the addition of fluoride to the drinking water of a public water system
mandatory unless the municipality exempts itself from the provisions of said
Act by ordinance duly enacted by the Village Council.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-7-1973)
§ 52.41 SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION OR POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct
or maintain, or permit to be constructed or maintained, within a radius of 100
feet from any of the wells supplying the municipal water system of the village,
any source of possible contamination or pollution to said wells.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any
act, or to allow to be done any act, that may contaminate or pollute or
contribute to the contamination or pollution of the water supply wells or water
system of the village.
(Ord. 27, passed 8-9-1959) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person tampering, altering, adjusting, damaging, destroying or
otherwise interfering with the Water Department property or who violates any of
the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.12 or §§
52.25 through
52.29 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250 plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
the sections listed in division (B) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.   
   (C)   Each day on which any violation of §§
52.25 through
52.29 continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense. In addition, the village
specifically reserves the right to proceed in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction, restraining order or
other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.29.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
52.41 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100, and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a term of not exceeding 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 27, passed 8-9-1959; Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 179, passed 2-25-
2009)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS CONNECTIONS
Section
   
53.01   State water supply cross connection rules adopted by reference
   
53.02   Inspections by Water Department
   
53.03   Right of entry
   
53.04   Water service discontinued for violation
   
53.05   Non-potable water
   
53.06   Regulations supplement State Plumbing Code
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 STATE WATER SUPPLY CROSS CONNECTION RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village adopts by reference the water supply cross connection rules of
the State Department of Public Health being R325.431 to R325.440 of the State
Administrative Code.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.02 INSPECTIONS BY WATER DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Water Department to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water supply where cross connections
with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspection
and reinspections based on potential health hazards shall be as established by
the Water Department.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The representative of the Water Department shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems on such property. Refusal of such information or refusal of access,
when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.04 WATER SERVICE DISCONTINUED FOR VIOLATION.
   The village water system is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross connections have been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.05 NON-POTABLE WATER.
   The potable water supply made available on the property served by the public
water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified by
this chapter and by the State Plumbing Code. Any water outlet which could be
used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable
system must be labeled in a conspicuously manner as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENT STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   This chapter does not supercede the State Plumbing Code or any other village
ordinance but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
liable to a fine of not more than $100, or by imprisonment in the county jail
not to exceed 90 days or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
State Provisions Adopted
   
70.01   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages adopted by
reference
Tourist Signs, Bicycles and Railroads
   
70.15   Tourist-oriented directional signs
   
70.16   Use of bicycles and other wheeled vehicles on sidewalks
   
70.17   Manually controlled crossing gates at railroad crossing
 
   
70.99   Penalty
**** STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED ****
§ 70.01 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.1 through 257.923, is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to “local authorities” shall
mean the village.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publish this section in the manner required by
law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Michigan Vehicle Code and the fact that a complete copy of the code is
available to the public at the office of the Village Clerk for inspection.
   (D)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the village may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
(Ord. 165, passed 11-10-2005)
§ 70.02 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR CITIES, TOWNSHIPS AND VILLAGES ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages as
promulgated by the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police pursuant
to the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 Public Act 306 of 1969,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 through 24.328 and made effective October 30, 2002,
and all future amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they
are promulgated and effective in this state are incorporated by reference.
   (B)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages to a “governmental unit” shall mean the village.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publish this section in the manner required by
law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages and the fact that a
complete copy of the Code is available to the public at the office of the
Village Clerk for inspection.
   (D)   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 166, passed 4-12-2006)
**** TOURIST SIGNS, BICYCLES AND RAILROADS ****
§ 70.15 TOURIST-ORIENTED DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   (A)   The village may permit tourist-oriented directional signs as defined
by M.C.L.A. § 247.401 within its jurisdictional boundaries as provided by and
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 247.403(7).
   (B)   An operator of a tourist-oriented activity who wishes to participate
in a directional sign program under Public Act 299 of 1996, as amended, and is
applying for a sign that would reside with the boundaries of the village in
accordance with the provisions of Public Act 299 of 1996 § 2, being M.C.L.A. §
247.402, shall submit the application for review by the Village Council or its
designee.
   (C)   The Village Council or its designee may approve or reject the
placement of any tourist-oriented directional sign within its jurisdictional
boundaries under the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The Village Council may appoint a designee by resolution to approve or
reject placement of any tourist oriented directional sign within its
jurisdictional boundaries.
(Ord. 200, passed 4-10-2013)
§ 70.16 USE OF BICYCLES AND OTHER WHEELED VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. Any wheeled vehicle propelled by means of chain driven gears
using footpower, electrical power or gasoline motor power, except that vehicles
defined as “motorcycles” or “mopeds” under the Motor Vehicle Code for the State
shall not be considered as BICYCLES under this section. This definition shall
include, but not be limited to, single-wheeled vehicles, also known as
unicycles; two-wheeled vehicles, also known as bicycles; three-wheeled
vehicles, also known as tricycles; and any of the above-listed vehicle which
may have training wheels or other wheels to assist in the balance of the
vehicle.
      ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing non-tandem
two-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person at a time, having an
electrical propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or one horsepower
and a maximum speed on a paved level surface of not more than 15 mph.
      ROLLER SKATES. Any shoe-like device with wheels attached, including, but
not limited to, ROLLER SKATES, in-line roller skates and roller blades.
      SKATEBOARD. Any surfboard-like object with wheels attached. SKATEBOARD
shall also include, under its definition, vehicles commonly referred to as
“scooters,” being surfboardlike objects with wheels attached and a handle
coming up from the forward end of the surfboard area.
   (B)   Prohibited activity. No person shall ride or operate a bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates, scooter, electric personal assistive mobility device
or any other wheeled device, except a wheelchair or a wheeled device to aid the
person to walk, on any public sidewalk of the following streets within the
village:
      (1)   Elm Street between Ash Street and Sycamore Street.
      (2)   Linden Street between Oak Street and Elm Street.
      (3)   Maple Street between Elm Street and Cherry Street.
(Ord. 161, passed 7-13-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 MANUALLY CONTROLLED CROSSING GATES AT RAILROAD CROSSING.
   Manually controlled crossing gates, which when lowered form a barricade
across Elm Street and the abutting sidewalk on each side of the railroad where
it crosses Elm Street in the village, shall be operated and maintained at all
times by any person, partnership, corporation or combination of same, operating
said railroad through said village.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-3-1947)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.15 or who installs or causes to be installed a tourist-oriented directional
sign without the approval of both the State Department of Transportation and
the Village Council, shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
punishable by a civil fine of not more than $100, plus costs, and if
applicable, damages and expenses as provided by law. A municipal civil
infraction action brought for any violation of §
70.15 shall follow the procedures set forth in Public Act 12 of 1994, M.C.L.A.
§ 600.113, as amended, and a defendant charged with a municipal civil
infraction violation shall have all of the rights, duties, responsibilities and
obligations set forth therein.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
70.16 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
70.16:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
   (D)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
the provisions of §
70.17, shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $100, and the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county jail for
a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 161, passed 7-13-2005; Ord. 200, passed 4-10-
2013)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Rules and regulations
   
71.03   Enforcement of and obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.04   Restrictions as to speed
   
71.05   Turning at intersection
   
71.06   Driving on right side
   
71.07   Overtaking and passing vehicles
   
71.08   Limitation on overtaking and passing
   
71.09   Following too closely
   
71.10   Right-of-way
   
71.11   Reckless driving
   
71.12   Driving while intoxicated
   
71.13   Vehicle left unattended
   
71.14   View or control of driver
   
71.15   Projecting articles
   
71.16   Signals on starting, stopping or turning
   
71.17   Equipment and license
   
71.18   Parades, processions and funerals
   
71.19   Removal of disabled vehicles
   
71.20   Restrictions on backing
   
71.21   Noise and smoke
   
71.22   Accidents
   
71.23   Vehicles passing school buses
   
71.24   Mandatory child restraints and safety belts
   
71.25   Weight restriction on Hickory Street viaduct
   
71.26   General weight limit on village streets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used in this Title VII shall have their usual and customary meaning;
provided, however, that all words defined in the Michigan Vehicle Code (Public
Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923, as amended) and used
in this title shall have the meaning given in the Michigan Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)
§ 71.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village President is hereby empowered, within the limits
prescribed by statute and this title, to direct and control traffic and to make
rules and regulations.
   (B)   The Village President is empowered, subject to approval of the Village
Council by resolution, to designate through or stop streets, to designate the
location of traffic-control signals, to prescribe the manner and duration of
parking vehicles, to establish loading zones for buses, trucks, taxicabs and
dray stands, to designate the maximum length of any vehicle permitted to park
upon any streets.
   (C)   The Village President is empowered to create quiet and safety zones;
to designate streets or portions thereof to be closed to traffic by reason of
construction or repair; and to designate streets for recreational use and their
hours of use.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)
§ 71.03 ENFORCEMENT OF AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic in conformance with the provisions of this title, provided that, in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, they may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding
the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Members of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, or in an
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic, and when so
doing shall have the authority of police officers.
   (C)   No person shall do any act forbidden, or shall fail to perform any act
required, in this title, or in the rules and regulations established hereunder.
   (D)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of a police officer.
   (E)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this title,
unless otherwise directed by police officers.
   (F)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “go,” “caution” or “stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, said terms and lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as specified in the
Michigan Vehicle Code (Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through
257.923, as amended).
   (G)   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles
shall apply to Police and Fire Department vehicles of the village, except that
such vehicles may:
      (1)   Park notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red light or stop signal or stop sign, but only
after slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limit so long as life or property is
not in danger;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning so
long as life or property is not in danger; and
      (5)   Drive on the left hand side of any highway, provided life or
property is not in danger.
   (H) The foregoing exemptions shall not protect the operator of such vehicle
from the consequences of his or her disregard of the property or safety of
others.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RESTRICTIONS AS TO SPEED.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
to any other conditions then existing, and no persons shall drive any vehicle
upon a street at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of division (A) above and except in those
instances where a lower speed is specified in this title, it shall be prima
facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive the same at a speed not to
exceed the following, but in any case when such speed would be unsafe it shall
not be lawful; 25 mph on all streets in a business or residential district and
25 mph in public parks unless a difference speed is fixed and duly posted; and
12 mph in any alley.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to exceed the foregoing speed limitations except
upon through streets or state trunkline highways where a difference speed limit
is authorized and has been marked by adequate signs giving notice of
permissible speed.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TURNING AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows: both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be
made as close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway;
approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the
roadway nearest the center line thereof and after entering the intersection the
left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
center line of the roadway being entered.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or “U” turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of
any such sign.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width all vehicles shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, when the right half of a roadway is closed to
traffic, and upon one-way streets.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 OVERTAKING AND PASSING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction except as otherwise provided in this title, shall pass at a safe
distance to the left thereof, and when safely clear of such overtaken vehicle
shall take up a position as near the right-hand edge of the main traveled
portion of the street as is practical.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of an
overtaken vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions, and then only under conditions
permitting such movement in safety; when the vehicle overtaken is making or
about to make a left turn, upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in either direction
and when such vehicles are moving in substantially continuous lanes of traffic.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 LIMITATION ON OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of a two-lane
street or in the center lane of a three-lane street in overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side or
center lane is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon the condition of the highway.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles enter an intersection at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver having so yielded and having
given a proper signal, may make such left turn and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn; provided, that at an
intersection at which a traffic signal is located, a driver intending to make a
left turn shall permit vehicles bound straight through the intersection before
making the turn.
   (C)   All vehicles approaching the intersection of a state trunkline highway
or a street designated by a stop sign as a through street shall come to a full
stop before entering or crossing such highways or through streets.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway or street
from an alley, private road or driveway, shall come to a full stop, before
driving onto a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across such alley, private
road or driveway, and upon entering the roadway portion of said highway or
street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or street carelessly
and heedlessly in willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others
or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of
reckless driving.
   (B)   Any person once convicted of reckless driving, upon a second or
subsequent offense shall be charged under the applicable state law and not
under the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is any habitual user of
narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital or any person who is
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, barbital or any
derivative of barbital, to drive any vehicle upon any street or other public
place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any motor vehicle or any person
having such in charge or in control thereof to authorize or knowingly permit
the same to be driven or operated upon any street or other public place by any
person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of
barbital or any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital.
   (C)   Any person once convicted of driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, upon a second or subsequent offense
shall be charged under the applicable state law and not under the provisions of
this title.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand on any street unattended without first effectively setting the
brakes thereon and stopping the motor of said vehicle, and when standing upon
any grade without turning the wheels towards the curb.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 VIEW OR CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the
driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No more than three persons shall occupy the front or driver’s seat of
a motor vehicle and no person, adult or minor, nor any animal, shall be seated
or carried in the lap of the driver, or shall the driver be seated in the lap
of a person occupying the front seat when the motor vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in any position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (D)   The windshield, at all times, in front of the driver shall be kept
clear of dirt, snow and ice, or open so that the driver’s view is unobstructed
to the front of the vehicle at all times.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 PROJECTING ARTICLES.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be placed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise and at such times as driving conditions shall require, a
red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the sides and rear. At any other time, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 SIGNALS ON STARTING, STOPPING OR TURNING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street before starting, stopping or
turning from a direct line shall first see that such movement can be made in
safety and shall give a signal as required by this section.
   (B)   The signal herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm in the manner herein specified, or by a mechanical or electrical signal
device which conveys an intelligible signal or warning to another driver
approaching from the rear.
   (C)   Whenever the signal is given by means of the hand and arm, the driver
shall indicate his or her intention to start, stop or turn by extending the
hand and arm horizontally from and beyond the left side of the vehicle.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 EQUIPMENT AND LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle or permit the same to be operated
on any street unless the same complies with the Michigan Vehicle Code (Public
Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923, as amended) in
reference to size, height, weight, construction and equipment and the use,
condition and operation of such equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle unless he or she is licensed as an
operator or chauffeur as required by the state, and unless he or she has the
license so granted in his or her possession at all times while operating a
vehicle. No person shall violate any condition of such license. No person shall
permit an unlicensed driver to operate any vehicle owned by him or her or under
his or her control.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 PARADES, PROCESSIONS AND FUNERALS.
   (A)   No funeral, procession or parade, excepting the armed forces of the
United States or of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street
except in accordance with a permit issued by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall not issue such permit if its issuance would,
in his or her opinion, create an unnecessary and unwarranted traffic hazard or
interference except upon the order of the Village Council.
   (C)   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as
such by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a flag as required by
the Michigan Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as is safe.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 REMOVAL OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled upon a street or because of damage or
other reason cannot be moved by its own power, and consequently blockades the
street or interferes with the use of the same by other vehicles, it shall be
the duty of its owner and its operator to remove it by towing or otherwise
within a reasonable time, and upon the owner’s failure to remove the vehicle
within a reasonable time the vehicle may be removed as provided in §
72.23.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20 RESTRICTIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall back the same, unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection
or over a crosswalk and shall not in any event on any street or alley back his
or her vehicle more than 60 feet.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 NOISE AND SMOKE.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any vehicle shall make with such
vehicle or any device connected with same, any noise so excessive as to annoy
the public, or unnecessarily race his or her motor while running idle, or open,
remove or detach, the muffler of any vehicle, or permit the muffler to remain
open, removed or detached while the motor of such vehicle is running, or permit
such vehicle or any device thereon to emit an unnecessary quantity of smoke,
obnoxious gases, flames or vapors.
   (B)   No person shall drive or propel upon the paved streets in the village
any steam engine, thrashing machine or other machines or equipment or vehicles
of any kind which may injure or damage the pavement of such street without the
written permission of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in any accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person shall immediately comply with the requirements of the
Michigan Vehicle Code (Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through
257.923, as amended) with regard to stopping, giving information and rendering
assistance. Any person failing to comply with said requirements shall be
charged under the applicable state law and not under this chapter.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only to
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop at the scene of such accident and shall give his or her name, address and
the registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, also the name and
address of the owner and exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license
to the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or, if such
owner cannot be located, shall forthwith report it to the nearest or most
convenient police officer.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to fixtures legally upon or adjacent to a street shall take reasonable
steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such property of
such accident and of his or her name and address and of the registration number
of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request exhibit his or her
operator’s license, and if such owner cannot be found, shall forthwith report
such accident to the nearest or most convenient police officer.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 VEHICLES PASSING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake, or meet and pass any
school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
passengers.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking or meeting any school bus which has
stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging any passengers, shall bring
such vehicle to a full stop at least ten feet from the school bus, and shall
not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the school bus driver
signals to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. The driver of
the school bus before resuming motion shall signal stopped traffic to proceed
and shall, when resuming motion, proceed in such manner as to allow congested
traffic to disperse by keeping the bus as near to the right side of the road as
can be done with safety. Passengers crossing the road upon being discharged
from a school bus shall cross in front of a stopped school bus. At an
intersection where traffic is controlled by an officer or a traffic stop-and-go
signal, a vehicle need not be brought to a full stop before passing any such
bus but may proceed past such school bus at a speed no greater than is
reasonable and proper and in no event greater than ten mph and with due caution
for the safety of passengers being received or discharged from such school bus.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon any highway which has been divided into
two roadways by leaving an intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or
clearly indicated dividing sections so constructed as to impede vehicular
traffic, need not stop upon meeting a school bus which has stopped in the
roadway across the dividing space, barrier or section.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-2-1961) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 MANDATORY CHILD RESTRAINTS AND SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   Mandatory child restraints.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, or as otherwise provided by
law, a rule promulgated pursuant to Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§
24.201 through 24.328 as amended, or federal regulation, each driver
transporting a child in a motor vehicle shall properly secure each child in a
child restraint system as follows:
         (a)   Any child less than one year of age in a child restraint system
which meets the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213;
         (b)   Any child one year of age or more but less than four years of
age when transported in the front seat, in a child restraint system which meets
the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213; and
         (c)   Any child one year of age or more but less than four years of
age when transported in the rear seat, in a child restraint system which meets
the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213, unless the child is secured by
a safety belt provided in the motor vehicle.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a nonresident driver transporting a
child in this state or to any child being nursed.
      (3)   This section does not apply if the motor vehicle being driven is a
bus, school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other motor vehicle not required
to be equipped with safety belts under M.C.L.A. § 257.710B or federal law or
regulations.
   (B)   Mandatory safety belt usage.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to a driver or passenger of:
         (a)   A motor vehicle manufactured before January 1, 1965;
         (b)   A bus;
         (c)   A motorcycle;
         (d)   A moped;
         (e)   A motor vehicle if the driver or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician that the driver is unable to wear a safety belt
for physical or medical reasons;
         (f)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with safety
belts under federal law;
         (g)   A commercial or United States postal service vehicle which makes
frequent stops for the purpose of pickup or delivery of goods or services; or
         (h)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural carrier of the United States
postal service while serving his or her rural postal route.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to a passenger of a school bus.
      (3)   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on
a street or highway in this state shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt, except that a child less than four years of age shall be protected
as required in this section. Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a
child four years of age or more but less than 16 years of age in the front seat
of the motor vehicle shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt.
      (4)   Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when a driver of a motor vehicle has been detained for a
suspected violation of another traffic ordinance, statute, chapter, section or
rule.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-14-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.25 WEIGHT RESTRICTION ON HICKORY STREET VIADUCT.
   From and after the effective date of this section, the viaduct, or bridge,
on Hickory Street over the Penn Central Railroad right-of-way in said village
shall be limited solely to the use of passenger vehicles or pickup trucks
having a gross weight of not to exceed five tons. All other trucks, semi-
trucks, farm tractors, self-propelled farm machinery, farm machinery and any
other type vehicle, conveyance or equipment exceeding five tons in gross weight
are strictly prohibited from crossing said viaduct.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-5-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 GENERAL WEIGHT LIMIT ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   (A)   On and after the effective date of this section it shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to propel or drive any vehicle whose gross
weight exceeds 18,000 pounds on the streets enumerated in division (B) below.
   (B)   All streets within the corporate limits of the village except Ash
Street and Elm Street, except as may be required for loading and unloading
purposes.
   (C)   The Village Street Commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered to
post all streets enumerated in division (B) above in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 31, passed - -1962; Ord. 127, passed 4-8-1998; Ord. 246, passed 3-12-
2025) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, his, her, or their employee or agent violating the
provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.21 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 and not more than $100
and costs of prosecution, or imprisoned in the county jail not to exceed 90
days or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
71.23 or §
71.25 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100 and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
   (D)   A person who violates §
71.24 is responsible for a civil infraction.
   (E)   (1)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
71.26 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
71.26:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of §
71.26 continues, constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952; Ord. 29, passed 3-2-1961; Ord. 51, passed 4-5-1973;
Ord. 101, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
Parking Violations Bureau
   
72.01   Establishment
   
72.02   Duties of Village Clerk
   
72.03   Violations to be disposed of by Bureau
   
72.04   Violation to be settled only at request of violator
   
72.05   Traffic ticket or notice of violation
   
72.06   Schedule of offenses and fines
Parking Regulations
   
72.20   Obedience to parking signs
   
72.21   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.22   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.23   Removal of vehicles parked in violation
   
72.24   Overnight parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
**** PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU ****
§ 72.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, M.C.L.A. § 600.8395, as
added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a Parking
Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking violations
within the village is hereby established. The Parking Violations Bureau shall
be under the supervision and control of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.02 DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall, subject to the approval of the Village Council,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint a
suitable person or persons to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation of the Bureau.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.03 VIOLATIONS TO BE DISPOSED OF BY BUREAU.
   No violation that is not scheduled in §
72.06 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau. The fact that a
particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau, and in any case, the person in
charge of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation. In such a case,
any person having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any
court having jurisdiction of the offense provided by law.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.04 VIOLATION TO BE SETTLED ONLY AT REQUEST OF VIOLATOR.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of the parking violation at
the Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any
such violations processed for a court having jurisdiction thereof, if so
desired. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges and protection according to him or her by the law.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.05 TRAFFIC TICKET OR NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of the parking violation. Such
traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in
which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking
Violations Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours
in which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the
offense for which the ticket was issued, advise that a warrant for the arrest
of the person to whom the ticket was issued will be issued if such a person
fails to respond within the time limited. The Bureau may provide self-addressed
envelopes for distribution to violators who may utilize such envelopes for
mailing fines into the Bureau if they so desire rather than appear in person.
Mailing in such a voluntary fine shall constitute complete acquittance by the
violator under this subchapter.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.06 SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES.
Uniform Traffic Code Violations
Offense UTC Section Penalty
Uniform Traffic Code Violations
Offense                                                                UTC     Penalty
                                                                       Section
Abandoned vehicle plus towing and storage charge                               $5
All night parking in prohibited area                                           $2
Angle parking violation                                                (8.3)   $2
Bicycle parking violations                                             (6.17)  $1
Disabled vehicle, failure to move                                              $10
Failure to set brakes                                                  (5.58)  $3
In an alley                                                            (.13)   $3
In prohibited zone (signs required)                                    (8.10)  $3
Loading zone violations                                                (8.17,  $2
                                                                       8.16)
Obstructing traffic                                                    (8.5)   $5
Parking between the sidewalk and the curb                                      $3
Parking for prohibited purpose                                         (8.14)
   (1)   Displaying advertising                                          $3
   (2)   Displaying vehicle for sale                                     $3
   (3)   Parking over 48 hours                                           $5
   (4)   Selling merchandise                                             $3
   (5)   Working or repairing vehicle                                    $3
Parking on private property, without the owner’s consent                     $5
Parking too far from curb                                              (8.1,   $2
                                                                       8.2)
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary)                                 (8.10)
   (1)   Blocking emergency exit                                         $5
   (2)   Blocking fire escape                                            $5
   (3)   Double parking                                                  $5
   (4)   In front of drive                                               $5
   (5)   In front of theater                                             $3
   (6)   On a bridge or viaduct                                          $10
   (7)   On crosswalk                                                    $5
   (8)   On the sidewalk                                                 $5
   (9)   Side street when traffic obstructed                             $5
   (10) Within intersection                                                 $10
   (11) Within 15 feet of a hydrant                                         $5
   (12) Within 20 feet of crosswalk or 15 feet of corner lines              $5
   (13) Within 20 feet of fire station entrance                             $5
   (14) Within 30 feet of street side traffic sign or signal                $5
   (15) Within 50 feet of a railroad crossing                               $5
   (16) Within 75 feet of fire station entrance on opposite side of         $5
street (signs required)
   (17) Within 200 feet of accident where police are in attendance          $3
 
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
**** PARKING REGULATIONS ****
§ 72.20 OBEDIENCE TO PARKING SIGNS.
    No person shall park or stand a vehicle upon the portion of any street upon
which authorized signs or markings have been erected designating the manner or
length of time or parking, in a manner or for a length of time contrary to such
posted signs or markings.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the
directions of a police officer or a traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection;
   (C)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (D)   On a crosswalk;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street; or
   (J)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley, in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet from the center
of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, and no persons shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES PARKED IN VIOLATION.
   The Chief of Police and any member of the Police Department shall have the
authority to remove all vehicles parked in violation of this subchapter, and
any vehicle so removed shall be taken into custody of the Police Department and
not released until the reasonable costs of such removal are paid to the Police
Department.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   (A)   No motor vehicle or motorcycle shall be parked on any street or
village parking lot in the village between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
at any time.
   (B)   Signs showing the prohibition against overnight parking shall be
posted on all principal streets used for entrance into the village.
(Ord. 63, passed 8-5-1976) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm their employee or agent, violating the provisions of
§§
72.20 through
72.23 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 and not more than $100
and costs of prosecution, or imprisoned in the county jail not to exceed 90
days or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
   (C)   (1)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
72.24, or
Chapter 73, is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment
of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
72.24 or
Chapter 73:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of §
72.24 or Chapter 73 continues, constitutes a separate offense and shall be
subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952; Ord. 63, passed 8-5-1976; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking time limited
      
II.   Parking prohibited during certain hours
      
III.   Parallel parking
      
IV.   Angle parking
      
V.   Double parking
      
VI.   Truck parking prohibited
      
VII.   Loading and unloading prohibited
SCHEDULE I: PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   No motor vehicle or motorcycle shall be parked for a period of time
exceeding two hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except
Sunday, on the following streets in the village:
 
Street          Location
Elm Street      Between Ash Street (US 12) and Sycamore Street
Elm Street      Between Linden and Maple Street
Elm Street      Between Maple Street and Sycamore Street
Linden Street   Between St. John United Church of Christ and Oak Street
Maple Street    Between Elm Street and Cherry Street
Sycamore Street Between Elm Street and Cherry Street
 
(Ord. 18, passed 6-3-1948; Ord. 19, passed 5-5-1949; Ord. 63, passed 8-5-1976)
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II: PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall park a motor vehicle
in the following locations, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. with
the exception of Sundays and legal holidays.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Schedule II, the word PERSON is hereby defined
to mean either the operator or the owner of a motor vehicle or truck as the
case may be.
 
Street        Location
              South side of street, between Elm Street and the east line of Lot
Linden Street 9 of the Subdivision of the east half of southeast quarter of
              Section 3, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
 
   (C)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who shall violate the
provisions of this schedule II, shall upon conviction be fined not less than $1
nor more than $100 or sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail not to
exceed 90 days, or both in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-5-1952)
SCHEDULE III: PARALLEL PARKING.
   Parking on the following streets shall be restricted to parallel parking as
specified:
 
Street             Location and Specifications
                   All portions where the pavement width is 33 feet, or less,
North Elm Street   measured from back to back of existing curbs, parallel
                   parking on one side only as designated by signs posted
                   thereon; angle parking prohibited
                   All portions where the pavement width is 33 feet, or less,
South Elm Street   measured from back to back of existing curbs, parallel
                   parking on one side only as designated by signs posted
                   thereon; angle parking prohibited
West Locust Street Parallel parking on one side only as designated by signs
                   posted thereon
 
(Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE IV: ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be permitted on those portions of the following streets
as designated by signs posted to permit such parking:
   (A)   East Linden Street; and
   (B)   Maple Street.
(Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE V: DOUBLE PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in the following locations
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 16
feet of the width of the street for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals of a police officer.
 
Street     Location
Elm Street Between Ash Street and Sycamore Street
 
(Ord. 16, passed 4-1-1948) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE VI: TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall park a truck of any kind
on the following streets:
 
Street     Location where Prohibited
Elm Street Between Ash Street and Sycamore Street
 
(Ord. 18, passed 6-3-1948) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE VII: LOADING AND UNLOADING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, partnership, firm or corporation using a vehicle to supply
goods, wares and merchandise to any business establishment on the following
streets shall place such vehicle on said portion of the street for the purposes
of loading and unloading such goods, wares and merchandise.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Schedule VII, the word PERSON as used herein
is defined to mean either the operator or the owner of said vehicle, or both as
the case may be.
 
Street     Location
Elm Street Between Linden Street and Maple Street
 
(Ord. 17, passed 4-1-1948; Ord. passed 6-3-1948) Penalty, see §
72.99
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Purpose
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Operation of golf carts on village streets
   
74.04   Registration and decals
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to secure the public peace, health, and
safety of the residents and property owners of the village for the regulation
of the use of golf carts on public roads within the corporate limits of the
village, to provide for the issuance of decals in connection with the
registration of golf carts, and to provide penalties for the violation of these
provisions.
(Ord. 237, passed 4-10-2024)
§ 74.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   DECAL. The sticker displayed on every registered golf cart within the
village, which are obtained by completing and submitting the proper
registration form to the Village Hall.
   DRIVER LICENSE. An operator’s or chauffeur’s license or permit issued to an
individual by the Secretary of State under Chapter III of the Michigan Vehicle
Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.301 to 257.329, as amended,
for that individual to operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are
attached to the license or permit.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed for transportation while playing the game of
golf.
   MAINTAINED PORTION. That portion of a road improved, designated, or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of a golf cart.
   REGISTRATION. The process through which every person intending to operate a
golf cart on roads or streets within the village must follow.
   STREET. A road, roadway, street, or right-of-way within the village street
system, but does not include a private road. The terms ROAD, ROADWAY, STREET
and RIGHT-OF-WAY are interchangeable.
   SUNSET AND SUNRISE. The time determined by the National Weather Service on
any given day.
(Ord. 237, passed 4-10-2024)
§ 74.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on village streets subject to the following
regulations:
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated in inclement weather, when visibility
is impaired by weather, or when streets are snow or ice covered.
   (B)   A golf cart shall not be operated on the streets of the village during
the time period from one-half hour before sunset to one-half hour after
sunrise.
   (C)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (D)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of M.C.L.A. § 257.648, as amended, that apply to the operation of a vehicle.
   (E)   All golf carts operating on village streets must be equipped with the
following safety equipment:
      (1)   One exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the golf cart
and either one exterior mirror mounted on the passenger side of the golf cart
or interior mirror as required for low- speed vehicles by 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.
      (2)   Brakes and a parking brake that comply with M.C.L.A. § 257.705.
   (F)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey by all sections pertaining to
traffic in the Michigan Vehicle Code and the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships, and Villages.
   (G)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on a state trunk line highway
or Elm Street. This division does not prohibit a person from crossing a state
trunk line highway when operating a golf cart on a village street, using the
most direct line of crossing.
   (H)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 miles per
hour and shall not be operated on a roadway or street with a speed limit of
more than 30 miles per hour except to cross that roadway or street.
   (I)   A golf cart shall not be operated on a public sidewalk or any other
structure constructed for pedestrian use.
   (J)   A golf cart shall not be used to carry more persons at one time than
the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (K)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a road or street in a negligent
manner, endangering any person or property, or obstructing, hindering, or
impeding the lawful course of travel of any motor vehicle or the lawful use by
any pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks, paths, trails, walkways, or parks.
   (L)   The owner of a golf cart operated on village streets shall obtain
insurance covering bodily injury and property damage liability in connection
with golf cart accidents occurring on such streets.
   (M)   Golf carts shall comply with all parking regulations that apply to
other vehicles operating in the village.
   (N)   No flags or banners shall be attached to any golf cart while such golf
cart is in motion on a village street.
(Ord. 237, passed 4-10-2024)
§ 74.04 REGISTRATION AND DECALS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, a golf cart owner shall
register each golf cart that operates on village streets by making application
to the Village Hall. Such application shall include proof of insurance as
required by §
74.03(L). The village shall approve the application after confirming that the
insurance requirements are satisfied. Each registration shall be renewed
biannually.
   (B)   A registration fee, as set by resolution of the Village Council, shall
be paid at the time of registration. Each approved golf cart shall be issued a
registration decal with a numerical identifier. The golf cart owner shall affix
the decal on the left front fender of the golf cart.
   (C)   Failure to register or renew an existing registration on a golf cart
as required by this section shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 237, passed 4-10-2024)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 or more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil
fine as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
this chapter committed by a person within any six-month period and for which
the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   (B)   A court may order a person who causes damage to the environment, a
road, or other public property as a result of the operation of a golf cart to
pay full restitution for that damage above and beyond the penalties paid for
civil infractions.
(Ord. 237, passed 4-10-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   DISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
90.01   Dogs running at large
   
90.02   Removal of animal defecation from public and private properties
   
90.03   Restrictions on number of dogs and cats
   
90.04   Exception to restrictions on number of dogs or cats
   
90.05   Location of doghouses, pens and kennels
   
90.06   Dogs creating a nuisance
   
90.07   Guard dogs and attack dogs
Other Animals
   
90.20   Restriction on the number of animals other than dogs and cats
   
90.21   Animals at large
   
90.22   Animals creating a nuisance
   
90.23   Maintenance of livestock or poultry
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** DOGS AND CATS ****
§ 90.01 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any dog to run at large anywhere outdoors in the
village. This regulation shall apply to all public places and to all private
property. No person shall permit any dog to be out of doors in any place unless
the dog is on a leash held by a person able to control the dog. The dog may be
left unattended out of doors in a yard with a fence adequate to prevent the dog
from leaving the yard or fastened to a chain of adequate strength to prevent
the dog from leaving the yard. Within one hour after a dog escapes from either
the owner or person having the custody of the animal, the owner or custodian of
the animal shall report the escape of said animal to the Police Department.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL DEFECATION FROM PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTIES.
   An owner or person having custody of any dog or any other animal shall not
permit said dog or other animal to defecate on any school ground, public
street, alley, sidewalk, tree bark, park or any other public grounds or any
private property within the village, other than the premises of the owner or
person having custody of said dog or other animal, unless said defecation is
removed immediately.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   Not more than two dogs or two cats shall be allowed in the residence or
apartment of the owner or the person who has custody of a dog or cat. Any
residence may contain both two dogs and two cats.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 EXCEPTION TO RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   The owner or person who has custody of a dog or cat may retain the
puppies or kittens, born of said dog or cat exceeding the permissible numbers
set forth in §
90.03 for 12 weeks after the birth of the animals. If, after that time, there
are more than two dogs and two cats in any one residence or apartment, the
owner or person in custody of the dogs or cats will be in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who lawfully owned more than two dogs or two cats prior to
the enactment of this chapter may retain their animals, provided they obtain a
special permit from the Chief of Police. The special permit shall be for a term
of one year and no renewal shall be issued without a subsequent inspection.
      (1)   If for any reason an animal is lost, sold, given away or dies and
there still remains in the residence or apartment two or more dogs or two or
more cats there can be no replacement of the lost, sold, given away or deceased
animal.
      (2)   A special permit shall be issued if, after an inspection, it is
determined by the Chief of Police that:
         (a)   The animals in the owner’s possession are not creating a
nuisance;
         (b)   There is adequate waste disposal; and
         (c)   There is no hazard to public safety, health and welfare.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 LOCATION OF DOGHOUSES, PENS AND KENNELS.
   No doghouse, pen or kennel shall be maintained closer than 40 feet to any
apartment house, residential condominium, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
retail food store, building used for school, religious or hospital purposes or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which said dogs are kept.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DOGS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   No person shall own, keep, have in possession or harbor any dog which, by
frequent or habitual howling, yelping or barking, shall cause a nuisance by
creating a serious annoyance or disturbance to any individual or to the
neighborhood. No person shall keep any cat that, by crying loudly or calling
loudly shall cause a nuisance by creating a serious annoyance or disturbance to
any individual or to the neighborhood. This section shall not apply to any
licensed kennel or licensed veterinary hospital.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 GUARD DOGS AND ATTACK DOGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term GUARD DOG or ATTACK DOG means any
dog intended to attack intruders, whether the dog has been trained to do so or
the dog does so without training.
   (B)   No person shall leave any guard dog or attack dog unattended in any
place in or out of any building unless a warning sign has been placed in a
clearly visible location at the premises, located so that it can be seen by any
person before entering the place to which the dog has access, warning that a
guard dog or attack dog is present.
   (C)   No guard dog or attack dog shall be left unattended in any place
except inside a building or out of doors in a fenced yard, with a fence
adequate to prevent the dog from leaving the yard.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** OTHER ANIMALS ****
§ 90.20 RESTRICTION ON THE NUMBER OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS.
   No more than two each of any other domestic or wild animals more than four
months old shall be kept or housed on any premises within the village limits,
except a special permit shall be issued for the keeping of any of such
creatures only when such animals were being lawfully kept on such lot prior to
the enactment of this chapter, or where, due to the conditions, size of the lot
or acreage involved and distances from other premises, no nuisance will be
created thereby. Each special permit shall be granted for the term of one year
and no renewal shall be granted without an inspection of the premises by the
Chief of Police and a finding of fact to the effect that no nuisance will be
created thereby.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall suffer or permit any domestic or wild animal of which he or
she is the owner, caretaker or custodian to be at large within the village. Any
such creature shall be deemed to be at large when it shall be off the premises
owned or rented by its owner and unaccompanied by the owner or an agent or
employee of the owner. Any such creature may be impounded by the village.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor or have in his or her possession any
animal which causes a serious annoyance or disturbance to any individual or to
the neighborhood. An individual may be prosecuted pursuant to this section only
if that particular animal is habitually disturbing any individual or being a
nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 MAINTENANCE OF LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY.
   (A)   No person or persons, partnership or corporation or combination
thereof, shall maintain cattle, swine, sheep, goats, horses or other livestock
within the corporate limits of said village, except that the place of
maintaining same shall be more than 200 feet from any building then being used
for dwelling purposes within said village.
   (B)   No person or persons, partnership or corporation or combination
thereof, shall maintain poultry within the corporate limits of said village,
unless same are confined to a coop or yard by fence, building or other type of
enclosure.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500,
plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Grasses
   
91.01   Weed growth prohibited
   
91.02   Duty of owner
   
91.03   Cutting by village
   
91.04   Notice of requirements
   
91.05   Exemptions
Junk, Trash, Rubbish, Abandoned Vehicles and the Like
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Determination
   
91.22   Accumulation of trash, junk, abandoned vehicles and the like
   
91.23   Keeping or maintaining blighted structures
   
91.24   Unfinished structures
   
91.25   Notice of violation
   
91.26   Storage of building materials
   
91.27   Removal of abandoned vehicle
Bulk Storage of Petroleum Products
   
91.40   Definition
   
91.41   Nuisance condition
   
91.42   Application for approval from Village Council
   
91.43   Approval of application by Village Council
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Second Hand Dealers, Junk Shops and Junk Dealers, see
Chapter 114
**** WEEDS AND GRASSES ****
§ 91.01 WEED GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning any premises shall permit or maintain on any such
premises any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth of grass or other rank
vegetation to a greater height than six inches on the average; nor any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush on any lot less than one acre in
size. On lots in excess of one acre in size, no person owning any premises
shall permit or maintain within 50 feet from the edge of the street or property
line, any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth of grass or other rank
vegetation to a greater height than six inches on the average; nor any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
   (B)   NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders
(any species of Custcuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian
mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed
(Convolvulus arvensis), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum
(Berteroa incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior I.), poison ivy (rhus
toxicondendron) and poison sumac (toxicondendron vernix).
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.02 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any premises within the village to cut
and remove or destroy by lawful means all such noxious weeds and grass as often
as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of §
91.01.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.03 CUTTING BY VILLAGE.
   If the provisions of the foregoing sections are not complied with, the
Police Chief shall serve, either personally or by regular first class mail,
written notice upon the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care
or control of any such lot or land to comply with the provisions of this
section. Posting a notice of the violation upon the property shall be deemed to
be adequate notice. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails to cut
or remove such weeds, grass or other vegetation within 48 hours after receipt
of such notice or if no owner can be found of such lot, the Police Chief shall
cause such weeds, grass and other vegetation to be removed and the actual cost
of such cutting and removal, plus 25% for inspection and other additional costs
in connection therewith, shall be certified by the Police Chief to the Village
Treasurer and shall become a lien upon the property on which such weeds, grass
and other vegetation were located, and shall be assessed and collected in the
same manner provided for collection of taxes. This notice shall suffice for the
entire growing season. If the provisions of §
91.02 are again not complied with, the Police Chief shall have the right to
cause such weeds, grass and other vegetation to be removed as provided for
herein without additional notice.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997; Ord. 204, passed 8-13-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.04 NOTICE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall on or before May 1 of each year give notice of the
requirements and provisions of this subchapter by publishing a notice thereof
once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 91.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exempted from the provisions of this subchapter are flower gardens, plots of
shrubbery, vegetable gardens, and small grain plots. An exemption under the
terms of this section cannot be claimed unless the land has been cultivated and
cared for in a manner appropriate to such exempt categories.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)
**** JUNK, TRASH, RUBBISH, ABANDONED VEHICLES AND THE LIKE ****
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes, but not by way of limitation, any vehicle which
has remained on private property for a period of 48 continuous hours, or more,
without the consent of the owner or occupant of the property, or for a period
of 48 continuous hours or more after the consent of the owner or occupant of
the property has been revoked.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE. Includes, but not by way of limitation, any dwelling,
garage or outbuilding, or any factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse
or any other structure or part of a structure which, because of fire, wind or
other natural disaster, or physical deterioration, is no longer habitable as a
dwelling, nor useful for the purpose for which it may have been intended.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Includes, but not by way of limitation, lumber, brick,
concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment,
heating ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete, cement or any other
materials used in constructing any structure.
   JUNK. Includes, but not by way of limitation, parts of machinery or motor
vehicles, broken and unusable furniture, stoves, refrigerators or other
appliances, remnants of wood, metal or any other cast-off material of any kind,
whether or not the same could be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes, but not by way of limitation, any vehicle
which is not licensed for use upon the highways of the state for a period in
excess of 60 days, and shall also include, whether licensed or not, any motor
vehicle which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess of 60 days;
provided, that there is excepted from this definition unlicensed, but
operative, vehicles which are kept as the stock in trade of a regularly
licensed and established dealer in new or used automobile or other motorized
vehicles, provided, further that the time limit such vehicles may remain upon
the premises of a motor vehicle repair garage shall be a period of 120 days
rather than 60 days, with extension of additional 30-day period upon
presentation to the enforcing officer of written proof the offending vehicle is
involved in insurance claim litigation or a similar matter and additional time
is required for settlement before a vehicle can be moved.
   PERSON. Includes all natural persons, firms, copartnerships, corporations
and all associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated,
whether acting by themselves, or by a servant, agent or employee. All persons
who violate any of the provisions of this subchapter, whether as owner,
occupant, lessee, agent, servant or employee shall, except as herein otherwise
provided, be equally liable as principals.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. Include any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
classified.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)
§ 91.21 DETERMINATION.
   It is hereby determined that the storage or accumulation of trash, rubbish,
junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, building materials and the maintenance
of blighted structures upon any private property within the village tends to
result in blighted and deteriorated neighborhoods, the spread of vermin and
disease, the increase in criminal activity and therefore is contrary to the
public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the community.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)
§ 91.22 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH, JUNK, ABANDONED VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, or to permit the storage or
accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles on
any private property in the village except within a completely enclosed
building or upon the premises of a properly zoned and licensed or approved junk
dealer, junk buyer, dealer in used auto parts, dealer in second hand goods or
junk gatherer.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 KEEPING OR MAINTAINING BLIGHTED STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted
structure, dwelling, garage, outbuilding, factory, shop, store or warehouse.
Vacant but still usable buildings and structures must be kept securely locked,
the windows kept glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent
entrance thereto by unauthorized persons.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 UNFINISHED STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any unfinished structure, dwelling, garage,
outbuilding, factory, shop, store, warehouse or other building to stand
unfinished in the village wherever such use shall constitute a menace to public
health and safety or contribute to the blight of a neighborhood. This section
shall be applicable wherever construction was begun in an authorized manner and
no work in good faith has been done for a continuous period of six months
toward completing the structure or building, or wherever a building or
structure has been moved upon the premises and is permitted to stand unfinished
for a continuous period of six months or longer. Whenever the strict
enforcement of this section would work an unnecessary hardship, the Village
Council may grant such extension of time for the completion of the building or
structure as may be deemed just under all the facts and circumstances so long
as good faith is demonstrated by the appellant and the spirit of this
subchapter is preserved.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   After written notice is given by the Village Clerk to the owner of record of
any property within the village that a violation exists under §
91.23 or §
91.24 of this subchapter such owner shall within 30 days begin completion of
construction or repairs or raze the blighted structure and clear and clean up
the site, and promptly proceed to the final abatement of such use within a
reasonable time.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)
§ 91.26 STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage or
accumulation of building materials on any private property, except in a
completely enclosed building or except where such building materials are part
of the stock in trade or a business located on said property, or except when
such materials are being used in the current construction of a structure on the
property, and unless such construction is completed within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   The Chief of Police on his or her own authority may remove or cause to be
removed any junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle, or parts of either, from any
public street without notice of any kind to the owner. In those cases where
junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of either, are stored on any
unenclosed private property, the Village Council may authorize the Chief of
Police to serve notice, in writing, on the owner or occupant of such property
or the owner of the vehicle, if known, of the village’s intention to remove
such vehicle. Such notice shall be served personally upon the owner or occupant
or it may be posted in a conspicuous place upon vacant or unoccupied property
and shall be served or posted at least seven days prior to such removal.
Failure to remove any junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle, or parts of either,
within the time specified in such notice shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter. Such junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of either, shall
be removed and disposed of in accordance with the law. Such removal by the
designated enforcement official shall not excuse or relieve any person of the
obligation imposed by this subchapter to keep his or her property free from
storage or accumulation of junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of
either, nor from the penalties for violation thereof.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** BULK STORAGE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS ****
§ 91.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the phrase BULK STORAGE OF PETROLEUM
PRODUCTS is defined as the storing of petroleum products in any single tank or
container, the capacity of which exceeds 275 gallons.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947)
§ 91.41 NUISANCE CONDITION.
   The location, construction, installation and maintenance of facilities for
the bulk storage of petroleum products within the village without the approval
of the Village Council as herein provided is hereby expressly prohibited and is
hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL FROM VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Before locating, constructing and/or installing facilities for the bulk
storage of petroleum products and/or extensions and additions thereto within
the village, any person, firm or corporation desiring to do so shall first make
written application for approval of the contemplated location, manner of
construction, manner of installation and maintenance thereof to the Village
Council. Such application shall be filed with the Village Clerk and such
application shall contain a description of the contemplated location, manner of
construction, installation and maintenance thereof and in addition thereto
shall contain information concerning the distance between the contemplated
location and adjacent buildings. Said application shall be executed by the
person, firm or corporation intending to locate, construct, install and/or
maintain facilities for the bulk storage of petroleum products and/or
extensions and additions thereto, within the village, or by his or her or its
duly authorized agent and said application shall then be filed with the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of such written application as described in §
91.42, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to present same to the Village
Council at the next succeeding general or special meeting of said Village
Council for approval by said Village Council. If the Village Council shall find
that the proposal contained in said application does not unreasonably affect
the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of said village, the
Village Council shall then adopt a resolution approving said application, and
the Village Clerk shall immediately notify the applicant of the action of the
Village Council concerning said application by mailing to the applicant a
certified copy of the resolution of the Council setting forth its action. A
certified copy of a resolution of approval shall constitute a permit for the
applicant to proceed with the location, construction, installation and
maintenance of facilities for the bulk storage of petroleum products and/or
extensions and additions thereto, with the village.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.05 or
91.20 through
91.27 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
the sections listed in division (B) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
91.40 through
91.43 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90
days or by both such fine and imprisonment, and each day that a violation shall
be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947; Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995; Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction of Sidewalks
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   New construction, reconstruction or replacement; resolution; notice;
public hearing
   
92.03   Cost of construction; replacement; certain repairs
   
92.04   Liability of property owner
   
92.05   Permit required; exception
   
92.06   Specifications, standards and inspection
   
92.07   Construction, reconstruction or replacement by village; lien
   
92.08   Repair or maintenance; notice; performed by village; lien
   
92.09   Construction, reconstruction, replacement or repair in conjunction with
street project
   
92.10   Lien; recovery of village expenses
   
92.11   Enforcement; appearance tickets
Use of Streets
   
92.25   Prohibiting operation of tractors or machinery with lugs over streets
   
92.26   Prohibiting dumping on streets, alleys and public places
Management and Regulation of Streets and Public Rights-of-Way
   
92.35   Compliance required
   
92.36   Placement of wires
   
92.37   Permits, applications, fees and obstructions
   
92.38   Insurance and bonds
   
92.39   Prohibition after paving or resurfacing
   
92.40   General regulations pertaining to construction, repair, excavations,
and obstructions
   
92.41   Removal of encroachment
   
92.42   Complete installation
   
92.43   Supplemental street construction, repair and maintenance regulations
   
92.44   Street vacation
   
92.45   Street names
   
92.46   Relocation of buildings
   
92.47   Damage by tree or bush
   
92.48   As-builts
   
92.49   Violations; cease work
   
92.50   Notice
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of bicycles and other wheeled vehicles on sidewalks, see §
70.16
**** CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS ****
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER.  A person who is a fee OWNER, whether as a tenant in common or in a
joint or entireties capacity. In the case of a recorded land contract, the
OWNER shall be the vendee thereon. A person whose ownership is only as security
for a debt shall not be considered the OWNER with the OWNER being the person
entitled to equitable possession.
   SIDEWALK. A concrete foot path designed for pedestrian use by the public
which is situated within the public right-of-way of a public street, highway or
road. The term shall not include any portion of a driveway between a street and
a proposed or existing sidewalk or a private walkway or foot path, nor any area
open to vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.02 NEW CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT; RESOLUTION; NOTICE;
PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the Village Council may by
resolution require the owners of lots or premises to construct sidewalks in the
public street right-of-way adjacent to or abutting upon such lots and premises
at locations where sidewalks are absent or have not previously existed; or to
reconstruct sidewalks at locations where the Village Council determines that
existing sidewalks are determined to require substantial repair such that
replacement with new sidewalks is proper. The resolution shall contain a
description of the sidewalk to be constructed, reconstructed or replaced, and
specify the period of time for performance. A certified copy of said resolution
shall be mailed by first class mail to each property owner of lots of premises
adjacent to or abutting said sidewalks or proposed sidewalks at the address
shown on the last general tax assessment roll of the village, and to each party
in interest whose name and address appears on said tax assessment roll.
   (B)   The resolution by the Village Council shall be preceded by a notice
and by a public hearing at which matters pertaining to new construction or to
the reconstruction or replacement of sidewalks, the period of time in which the
acts shall be performed and all other related matters shall be addressed and
considered. Property owners and parties in interest of adjacent or abutting
lots or premises shall be provided with notice providing a description of the
proposed work and the period of time for performance, and the date, time and
place of the public hearing. The notice shall be in writing and shall be served
in the manner prescribed in division (A) above not less than ten days prior to
the date of hearing. Notice shall also be made by one publication in a
newspaper published or circulated within the village. Publication shall be made
not less than seven days prior to the date of hearing. Property owners and
other interested parties may address the Village Council in person or by
representative, or in writing.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.03 COST OF CONSTRUCTION; REPLACEMENT; CERTAIN REPAIRS.
   The cost of new sidewalk construction, or reconstruction or replacement of
existing sidewalk, and of sidewalk repairs, shall be paid by the owner of the
property adjacent to or abutting thereon. At the discretion of the Village
Council, the expense of new sidewalk construction or of the reconstruction or
replacement of existing sidewalk, and the expense of sidewalk repairs exceeding
$500, may be paid by the establishment of a special assessment against the
adjacent/abutting property or by such other method as established by the
Village Council. The Village Council may by a two-thirds vote of the members
pay such part of the expense of building or rebuilding such walk as it may
consider proper from the General Street Fund.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005; Ord. 238, passed 4-11-2024)
§ 92.04 LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of lots or premises
adjacent to or abutting upon sidewalks that the same shall be kept at all times
in good repair and safe for pedestrian use, free of hazard and maintained as
herein provided; and the owner shall assume and pay the expense of repair,
maintenance and freedom from hazards. Sidewalk repairs shall consist of the
filling with concrete of cracks, hollows or crevices, and the correction of any
other condition of disrepair which presents a hazard to pedestrians. Sidewalk
maintenance shall consist of the removal of weeds, grass or other vegetation
from cracks or crevices in the surface of a sidewalk, and the removal or
trimming of tree limbs, shrubbery or other vegetation which restrict the full
use of a sidewalk for pedestrian travel or which constitute a hazard to
pedestrians. Freedom from hazards shall consist of removal of ice, snow and any
other object or condition hazardous to pedestrian travel.
   (B)   The failure, neglect or refusal of a property owner to keep in good
repair a sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon lands owned by him or her, and
safe for use as a public pedestrian way, or to maintain a sidewalk as
aforesaid, shall constitute a civil infraction, and the property owner shall,
upon being found responsible, be subject to the penalties provided for
municipal civil infractions.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005; Ord. 164, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) above, no person shall construct,
reconstruct, replace or repair any sidewalk without first obtaining a written
permit from the village prior to the commencement of such work. A permit shall
be prominently displayed at the work site.
   (B)   Minor sidewalk repairs which do not exceed one square foot in any
single place or ten square feet in total combined area adjacent to a lot or
premises may be performed by the property owner or his or her contractor
without the necessity of obtaining a permit. No permit is required for usual
and customary maintenance of sidewalks.   
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, replace or repair any sidewalk
except in accordance with the line, grade, slope and specifications approved by
the village, or without first complying with the provisions of §
92.05 above.
   (B)   Whenever practical, the village shall direct that the construction of
a sidewalk be on a line parallel with the edge of the public right-of-way;
provided that exceptions may be made for aesthetic design or preservation of
substantial trees.
   (C)   Line and grade stakes as may be necessary for proper control of the
work shall be approved by the village; provided, however, that the approval
shall not relieve the owner of the responsibility for making careful and
accurate measurements in sidewalk construction, reconstruction, replacement or
repair.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of four-inch thick, 3,000 pound per
square inch portland cement concrete poured on a compacted base. Sidewalks
shall be five feet in width, provided, however, that the village may approve a
greater or lesser width for the purposes of conformity of new or replacement
sidewalks with existing connecting sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed with
a slope toward the center of the right-of-way and constructed to the grades
specified by the village. Contraction joints shall be spaced every five feet
and expansion joints shall be spaced at least every 40 feet of length. One-half
inch thick, six-inch wide expansion joints shall be constructed where a
sidewalk touches a street curb. The Village Council, upon the recommendation of
the Department of Public Works and a finding of unique or special circumstances
with respect to a particular sidewalk or portion thereof, may alter or add to
said specifications as deemed necessary for proper construction,
reconstruction, replacement or repair.
   (E)   A property owner undertaking to construct, reconstruct, replace or
repair a sidewalk (with the exception of minor sidewalk repair as provided in
division (B) above) shall notify the village no less than 48 hours prior to
commencement thereof. The work shall not proceed until the village shall have
inspected the rails and subgrade and approved the work as in conformance with
slope, grade and other specifications. The sidewalk shall also be subject to
the approval of the village by a final inspection performed after all work has
been completed.
   (F)   The location and specifications of sidewalks shall be shown on site
development and grading plans for a new structure under consideration by the
Building Official for issuance of a building permit, and the same shall be
approved by the village prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT BY VILLAGE; LIEN.
   If an owner of lots or premises shall fail, neglect or refuse to construct,
reconstruct or replace any sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon property owned
by him or her in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter within the
period of time specified in a resolution so to do as provided in §
92.02(A), the village may, after the expiration of the time prescribed for the
work to be performed by the owner, cause the sidewalk to be constructed,
reconstructed or replaced by the village together with an administration fee of
10% of costs thereof, all of which shall be charged to the owner thereof and
shall be payable in full within 30 days after completion of the work; and if
not so paid, a lien shall be established upon the property pursuant to §
92.10.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.08 REPAIR OR MAINTENANCE; NOTICE; PERFORMED BY VILLAGE; LIEN.
   In instances in which sidewalk repairs or maintenance are determined by the
Department of Public Works to be necessary, the Department shall report same to
the Village President or designee thereof. If the Village President or designee
thereof concurs, he or she shall cause notice to the property owner to be made
in the manner prescribed in §
92.02(A), stating the determination of the necessity for repairs or
maintenance, specifying the site or sites requiring repair or maintenance,
methods or procedures for accomplishing same and the time for performance. In
the event a property owner fails, neglects or refuses to cause said sidewalk
repairs to be made or maintenance to be performed, the village shall undertake
the same. The expense so incurred, plus 10% as an administrative fee, shall be
payable in full within 30 days after completion of the work, and if not so
paid, a lien shall be established upon the property pursuant to §
92.10.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.09 CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR IN CONJUNCTION WITH
STREET PROJECT.
   When the Village Council shall consider the necessity for construction,
reconstruction, widening, resurfacing, installing curb and gutter or otherwise
improving a public street, the necessity of construction, reconstruction,
replacement or repair of abutting or adjacent sidewalks shall simultaneously be
considered. Whenever feasible, sidewalk work shall be performed in conjunction
with the street project as finally approved by the Village Council. A separate
special assessment district established for a street project may, at the
discretion of the Village Council, include all sidewalk work performed in
conjunction therewith.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.10 LIEN; RECOVERY OF VILLAGE EXPENSES.
   The failure, neglect or refusal of a property owner to pay in full when due
the total expenses, together with applicable administrative fee, incurred by
the village by reason of work performed for new sidewalk construction or for
the reconstruction or replacement of existing sidewalk, or for the repair or
maintenance of sidewalk, whether said expenses are incurred in the form of work
performed by village employees or by independent third parties with whom the
village has contracted, shall cause a lien in favor of the village to be
established on the property. If the amount due and owing is not paid by April 1
next following, and is certified as unpaid by the Village Treasurer, the
Village Assessor shall enter the total amount of the unpaid expenses and fees,
together with interest at 12% per annum, upon the next general tax roll of the
village as delinquent charges against the property. Said lien shall remain in
effect until the amount due and owing, and interest thereon, is fully paid; and
said amount, plus interest, may be collected in the manner provided by law for
delinquent and/or unpaid taxes, or at the direction of the Village Council, by
such proceedings as are permitted by law and as may be recommended by the
Village Attorney.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.11 ENFORCEMENT; APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Village
President or designee thereof.
   (B)   Any person(s) designated to enforce the provisions of this subchapter
pursuant to this section shall have the authority to issue and serve appearance
tickets for appearance before a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
**** USE OF STREETS ****
§ 92.25 PROHIBITING OPERATION OF TRACTORS OR MACHINERY WITH LUGS OVER STREETS.
   No person or persons, partnership, corporation or combination of same shall
operate any tractors or other implements or motor vehicles or machinery over
and across the streets of the village which have been paved or covered with
hard surfacing material or macadam or asphalt, if such machines, tractors,
motor vehicles or other implements are equipped with lugs or other fixtures
which in any way would imprint or break through or cut into the pavement,
macadam, asphalt or other surface of said street in said village.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 PROHIBITING DUMPING ON STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person or persons shall dump refuse, ashes, rubbish or any other
matter in any of the streets within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   No person or persons shall drive, operate or propel, or draw any
vehicle, implement or other machinery or equipment of any kind which drops dirt
or other material on any street within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
92.99
**** MANAGEMENT AND REGULATION OF STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY ****
§ 92.35 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All maintenance and repair of public streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public ways, and the placement and maintenance of aerial or above ground wires,
cable, lines, conduit and utility poles in, on or across the streets or public
rights-of-way of the village, shall be under the supervision and control of the
Village Council. No person shall excavate, cut or otherwise work within, cause
any damage to, place any article in, or obstruct any street or public right-of-
way in the village, except pursuant to a permit issued as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.36 PLACEMENT OF WIRES.
   Unless exceptions have been granted by the Village Council, upon
recommendation of the Village Engineer, all new or replacement distribution
lines for electricity, telephone, television, or similar services distributed
by wire or cable shall be placed entirely underground throughout the area.
Electrical distribution lines shall be defined in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Michigan Public Service Commission. Such conduits or cables
shall be placed within private easements provided to such service companies by
the proprietor, or within dedicated public ways. All such facilities placed in
public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground
utilities. All such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with
standards approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission. Private easements
for underground utilities shall be shown on the site plan.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.37 PERMITS, APPLICATIONS, FEES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Except for work performed under a contract with the village, no work
shall take place in a public right-of-way or street without a permit issued by
the Village Manager, or his or her designee. All work permitted in the public
right-of-way or street is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   No zoning permit for construction or alteration of any structure
requiring utility lines shall be issued permits required under this subchapter
for such utility work unless full compliance is adhered to as contained herein.
      (2)   All work shall be performed in such a fashion so as to minimize
inconvenience to pedestrian and vehicular traffic and to protect the public
health and safety. The Village Manager, or his or her designee, may limit
construction times, may require changes in precautionary measures, and may
otherwise impose reasonable requirements to enhance public health and safety
and to enhance pedestrian and vehicular traffic flow. However, the
responsibility for the public health and safety shall lie solely with the
person(s) performing the work pursuant to any permit. No dirt or other material
shall be placed on sidewalks or roadways.
      (3)   All facilities, both below ground and above ground, shall be
constructed, installed and located only as permitted by the Village Manager, or
his or her designee. If at any time the position of the utility lines or other
facilities interfere with any work the village plans to perform or allow to be
performed in, on or over the street or public right-of-way, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the utility lines or other facilities, at that
owner’s sole expense, to remove or relocate the lines or other facilities to a
location satisfactory to the village.
      (4)   Persons performing the work shall obtain and maintain any other
permits or approvals that may be required by other local, state or federal
agencies and/or utilities.
      (5)   When the work is fully completed, the street or public right of way
shall be restored to the condition it was in prior to that work.
      (6)   Anyone doing work in a street or right-of-way pursuant to a permit
shall hold the village (which, for purposes of this requirement, includes its
officers and employees) harmless from, indemnify the village for and defend the
village (with legal counsel reasonably acceptable to the village) against any
pending or threatened claim, cause of action, administrative proceeding, award,
judgment or order, for any injuries, deaths or property damage which may arise
as a result of the work done under the permit.
      (7)   The village, its employees, and assigns shall not be held liable or
responsible for the placement of any fencing, landscaping, or other item within
a public right of way or road owned by or within the jurisdiction of the
village. No person, firm, agent, or other entity shall place fencing,
landscaping, or any other non-vegetative obstruction or item within a public
right-of-way or road owned by or within the jurisdiction of the village without
first obtaining a permit from the village. The village may require that any
fence, landscaping, or other item located within a public road right-of-way or
road owned by or within the jurisdiction of the village be removed at any time
(regardless of whether a permit or approval for such item was given by the
village) if the village determines that such item constitutes a traffic hazard,
has not been maintained, or is aesthetically offensive.
   (B)   (1)   Permits authorized by this subchapter shall be obtained by
making application to the Village Manager, or his or her designee.
      (2)   An applicant for a permit for construction, repair, excavation,
obstruction, or use of any street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way
shall furnish to the Village Clerk or the Village Manager, or his or her
designee, a signed application setting forth the location of the activities,
the purpose and extent thereof, the location of the construction, excavation,
obstruction, or repair, the duration of the activities, the name of the person
responsible for performing the work, and the other information as the Village
Manager, or his or her designee, or Village Clerk may request.
      (3)   The Village Manager, or his or her designee, may cause the matter
to be investigated, and if satisfied that the work or other activity is
reasonable and necessary, shall give written approval to the application.
Reasonable conditions may be placed on the permit, and the permit shall be
issued only upon full compliance with any such conditions.
      (4)   From time to time, the Village Council may establish a fee for the
permit by resolution.
   (C)   (1)   A person, firm, corporation, or any other entity shall not place
or deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited, snow, ice, slush, grass,
leaves, or debris onto, into, or across any roadway or highway. This
prohibition shall include, but not be limited to, snowplowing and snow blowing.
      (2)   A person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall not remove or
place, or cause to be removed or placed, snow, ice, slush, leaves, or debris
onto, into, or across a roadway or highway or the shoulder of the roadway or
highway in a manner which interferes with traffic or obstructs the safety
vision of the driver of a motor vehicle other than off-road vehicles. For the
purpose of this subchapter, “safety vision” is defined as an unobstructed line
of sight enabling a driver to travel upon, enter, or exit a roadway or highway
in a safe manner.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.38 INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   (A)   A permit applicant shall provide proof of general liability insurance
that includes the village (including its officers and employees) as an insured
or additional insured. Such insurance shall provide coverage in an amount not
less than the following: a minimum of $1,000,000 for public liability and
$1,000,000 for property damage. A duplicate executed copy of the original of
such certificate of insurance showing the insurance to be in place and the
premium fully paid shall be filed with the village. Such insurance shall
provide that coverage may not be terminated or modified without at least 15
days prior written notice to the village. Upon request of the village, copies
of the policies and all endorsements shall be filed with the village.
   (B)   The village may require the applicant to furnish a bond in an amount
deemed adequate for the proposed activity. In lieu of or in addition to a bond,
the village may require the applicant to furnish a deposit to cover the expense
to the village if the construction or other activities are not performed in
accordance with the permit, village ordinance, or other applicable law. The
deposit shall be paid to the Village Clerk and will be used only for that
purpose. Upon completion of the work, any surplus not used by the village to
correct any failures to comply with the conditions of the permit and this
subchapter shall be refunded to the applicant, without interest.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.39 PROHIBITION AFTER PAVING OR RESURFACING.
   No permit to make any opening or excavation in or under a paved street shall
be granted to any person within a period of two years after the completion of
any paving or resurfacing unless those doing the work provide a seamless
resurfacing of an area determined to be appropriate given the size of the
paving or resurfacing project. The Village Council may suspend this prohibition
where a street opening is required to protect the public health or safety.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.40 GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, EXCAVATIONS,
AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Proper bracing for excavations shall be maintained to prevent the
collapse of adjoining lands.
   (B)   (1)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, conduits, other
underground structures, or any aboveground utility or sign in making
excavations.
      (2)   Before making excavation in which the pipes, cables, or conduits
may be disturbed, the person making the excavation shall give reasonable notice
to the person maintaining the pipes, cables, or conduits.
   (C)   To the extent possible, provision shall be made for allowing the
passage of pedestrian and vehicular traffic past the site of the work.
   (D)   After completion of excavation, all trenches and excavations shall be
promptly backfilled and thoroughly settled by wetting and tamping, and all
excess material promptly removed from the site.
   (E)   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be properly
barricaded and railed off, and provided with prescribed nighttime warning
lights so as to provide protection in a manner consistent with general industry
practice or as further enhanced by direction of the Village Manager. All
traffic control devices shall conform to the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.
   (F)   Each day as work progresses, and after work is finished, all streets
shall be thoroughly cleaned of excess earth and other debris resulting from the
work, at the expense of the person receiving the permit.
   (G)   No provision of this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the work
as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the
location of improper or unsafe conditions in any conduit or pipe, or for making
emergency repairs, provided that the person conducting the work shall apply to
the Village Manager, or his or her designee, or Village Clerk for an
appropriate permit on the first working day after the emergency work is
commenced.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to disturb or to interfere with any barricade or
railing lawfully placed to protect a mark ending new pavement, construction,
excavation, or opening in a public street, curb, alley, sidewalk, or other
public way.
   (I)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair, or remove any curb,
gutter, or structure for regulating, governing, or facilitating the flow of
water, except in accordance with the line, grade, or specifications established
by the village.
   (J)   Any person receiving a permit for the work who shall fail to comply
fully with all provisions of the permit, or other village ordinances, shall be
subject to the suspension of the permit by the Village Manager or the Village
Council. In the event of the suspension, the person shall not proceed with the
work for which the permit was issued until after the permit shall be reissued.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.41 REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT.
   Any encroachment, obstruction or excavation in a street or public right-of-
way which was not permitted under this subchapter shall be removed upon notice
by the Village Manager, or his or her designee. If, due to a lack of knowledge
of who is responsible for the encroachment, obstruction, or excavation, due to
the exigency of the circumstances, or due to a failure of a notified party to
remove it, the village undertakes its removal, the expense of doing so shall be
the responsibility of the persons or parties responsible for the encroachment,
obstruction or excavation.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.42 COMPLETE INSTALLATION.
   Any installation of wires, cables, lines, conduits or similar transmission
materials in the vicinity of the public right-of-way shall be completed such
that no such materials are left lying upon or over the street or public right-
of-way or placed in or upon trees or other vegetation located in the right-of-
way.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.43 SUPPLEMENTAL STREET CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or repair any curb or pavement on
any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, or other public way without having
first secured a permit from the village.
   (B)   The repair or replacement of existing streets, or extension of
streets, or construction of new streets (for example, within a new plat) by a
private party (but not the village) shall conform with all applicable County
Road Commission standards.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.44 STREET VACATION.
   (A)   When the Council considers it advisable to vacate, discontinue, or
abolish a street, alley, or other public way, or part of a street, alley, or
other public way, it shall by resolution declare its intent and appoint a time
not less than four weeks after the date of the resolution, when it shall meet
and hear objections to the resolution. Notice of the meeting, with a copy of
the resolution, shall be given in the manner prescribed by the Open Meetings
Act, as amended or replaced. An objection to the proposed action of the Council
may be filed with the Clerk in writing, and if an objection is filed, the
highway, street, lane, alley, or public ground, or part of a highway, street,
lane, alley, or public ground, shall not be vacated or discontinued, except by
a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council.
   (B)   Vacated portions of streets and alleys shall be shown on the village
street map and/or applicable plat. The vacating of a street, alley, or other
public way shall be done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the street
map and/or plat.
   (C)   Every resolution or ordinance discontinuing or vacating any street,
lane, alley, or public ground shall also be recorded in a book of street
records and the record shall be prima facie evidence of all matters therein set
forth.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.45 STREET NAMES.
   All streets shall be known and designated by the names applied thereto,
respectively, on the map of the village, and plats in reference thereto, filed
with the Village Clerk, which map and plats are hereby adopted and made a part
hereof. The naming of any new street, or the changing of a name of any street,
shall be done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the map and/or plat.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.46 RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall move, or cause to be moved, or aid in moving, any
building upon or across any street, alley, or other public place without first
obtaining a written permit from the Village Manager.
   (B)   The permit shall require that the building be in continuous movement,
without interruption as long as the building is upon the street or alley,
except in cases of emergency.
   (C)   The permit shall allow movement of the building only upon a particular
route approved by the Village Clerk, and during particular times approved by
the Village Manager.
   (D)   The person responsible for moving the building shall make appropriate
arrangements to avoid damage to utilities.
   (E)   A bond shall be furnished to the village in an amount not less than
$5,000 as security for any damage to any public property which may result
directly or indirectly from moving the building.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.47 DAMAGE BY TREE OR BUSH.
   (A)   When in the judgment of the Village Manager the roots of any tree or
bush are causing damage to any sewer, sidewalk, pavement, or other public
property, the same may be declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice shall be given to the property owner as provided in §
92.50.
   (C)   The notice will set a time for hearing at the next regular Village
Council meeting which is at least 30 days from the giving or posting of notice.
   (D)   If, at the hearing before the Village Council, the Council determines
that a public nuisance exists, the owner shall then be given 14 days in which
to remove the tree or bush and to repair, or pay for the repair of, the public
property damaged.
   (E)   If the owner fails to remove the tree or bush within 14 days, then the
owner shall be deemed to have committed a nuisance, and the village may abate
the nuisance.
   (F)   In addition to the fines and penalties as may be assessed against the
property owner for committing a nuisance, the village may recover the cost of
abating the nuisance, and repairing damage caused by the nuisance, in a civil
action against the property owner, or by any other means permitted by law.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.48 AS-BUILTS.
   Upon the completion of any work in any street or right-of-way, the person(s)
performing such work shall file with the village detailed, as-built drawings
showing what was installed in what location, what materials were used in
restoration and such other information as may be required by the Village
Manager.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.49 VIOLATIONS; CEASE WORK.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership, or other legal
entity which violates or refuses to comply with any provision of this
subchapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be
subject to fines, costs, and other relief as provided for in §
92.99.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties or remedies available, the village
is authorized and empowered to direct the property owner to remove or otherwise
abate the nuisance. If such notice is given, it shall be in writing, addressed
to the property owner as it appears on the latest ad valorem property tax
assessment roll, or current owner if such is different and known to the village
and be mailed via first class or posted at the property in violation, and shall
inform the property owner of the following:
      (1)   The nature of the violation/nuisance; and
      (2)   The time in which the violation/nuisance must be abated.
   (C)   Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any property owner to comply with
the provisions of this subchapter, the village or its authorized contractor, or
other designee, is authorized and empowered to enter the property owner's
property to abate the nuisance, or to provide and to make payment for the
abatement of the nuisance maintained.
   (D)   When the village abates a nuisance as provided herein, the cost of any
abatement, including legal expenses and the authorized administrative fee, will
be billed to the property owner. The cost and fee will be a debt of the
property owner to the village.
   (E)   The failure to receive the notice as provided for in division (B) of
this section is not a defense to any action brought by a member of the public
for injury or by the village to collect the costs of abatement or impose
penalties or other fees authorized by this subchapter.
   (F)   The Village Manager may suspend or revoke any permit and order any
permitted work to cease by serving notice of such action and the reason
therefore. The Village Manager may also order the permittee to remove or
correct work that threatens health, welfare or safety. If a permittee fails to
remove or correct the work, the village may remove or correct the same and the
permittee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses the village incurs to
do so. This remedy shall be in addition to all remedies available to the
village under this subchapter, at law or in equity.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.50 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice regarding any matters as to which notice is required or
permitted to be provided under the terms of this code, including notice
regarding any act required by this code, the expense of which, if performed by
the village, may be collected from the property owner, shall be served as
follows, in addition to any other means of service of notice required by law:
      (1)   By delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the
person's residence, office, or place of business with some person of suitable
age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by registered or certified mail to the person
at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the identity of a property owner is not known, or if his or her
whereabouts cannot be ascertained after diligent search and inquiry, by posting
the notice in some conspicuous place on the premises concerned not fewer than
five days prior to the date set therein for compliance.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal, or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by the village unless permission is
given to remove it.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.11 or
92.26 in addition to the other provisions of this chapter, is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
any of the sections listed in division (B) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of said sections continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
      (4)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
the provisions of §
92.25 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $100, and the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county jail for
a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
92.35 through
92.50 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 or more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to an
increased civil fine as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §§
92.35 through
92.50:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of §§
92.35 through
92.50 continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
      (4)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with §§
92.35 through
92.50 .
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 12, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995; Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005; Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park and Recreation Board
   
93.01   Creation of Board
   
93.02   Organization
   
93.03   Funding
   
93.04   Receipts, donations, disposition
   
93.05   Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Use of Public Parks
   
93.20   Public sale of alcohol in village parks at certain times authorized;
permit required; standards
   
93.21   Park closing hours
 
   
93.99   Penalty
**** PARK AND RECREATION BOARD ****
§ 93.01 CREATION OF BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Board consisting of seven
members appointed by the Village President with the consent of the Village
Council. The term of each appointed member shall be for three years or until
his or her successor takes office, except that the respective terms of two of
the members first appointed shall be for one and two of the members for two
years. One of the Board members must be a member of the Village Council and of
the Council’s Park Committee and such member’s term shall not exceed such
member’s term of office as a member of the Village Council. All members shall
serve at the pleasure of the President and Council and may be removed by the
President with consent of the Council. The President may appoint one member of
the Board who is not a village resident but a resident of Three Oaks Township.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010; Ord. 205, passed 7-8-2015; Ord. 207, passed 11-
11-2015)
§ 93.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall annually elect one of its members
Chairperson and one as Secretary. The Chairperson shall be a resident of the
village. The Board shall keep a correct and accurate record of its proceedings
and shall meet at such times as it may determine.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010; Ord. 227, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 93.03 FUNDING.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall prepare annual operating budgets and
shall review its budgets with the Village Council. The budget shall be
submitted to the Village Council by the Village Council’s Park and Recreation
Board representative. All budgets shall be subject to review and revision by
the Village Council upon consultation with the Park and Recreation Board.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 93.04 RECEIPTS, DONATIONS, DISPOSITION.
   All receipts on account of the village parks, whether arising from rentals,
donations, sale of any part thereof or of any lands so willed and devised by
any person to said village, shall be exclusively expended and applied under the
direction and control of the Village Council.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 93.05 PARKS AND RECREATION MASTER PLAN.
   The Village Five Year Parks and Recreation Master Plan shall be maintained
and kept up to date in compliance with State Department of Natural Resources
and Environment guidelines. The Parks and Recreation Board shall be responsible
for preparing any updates to the Plan under the direction and approval of the
Village Council.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
**** USE OF PUBLIC PARKS ****
§ 93.20 PUBLIC SALE OF ALCOHOL IN VILLAGE PARKS AT CERTAIN TIMES AUTHORIZED;
PERMIT REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sale authorized. The Village Council has deemed it advisable to allow
and permit limited public sale at retail and consumption of alcoholic beverages
in certain public parks within the village, namely Watkins Park, Dewey Cannon
Park and Carver Park, during community-wide events.
   (B)   Permit for sale. Permits for sale of alcoholic beverage in Watkins
Park, Dewey Cannon Park and Carver Park shall be obtained by application to the
Village Council in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application with the Village Clerk stating:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the person, persons,
corporation, association or entity sponsoring the activity or event for which
the permit is desired;
         (c)   The day or days and hours for which the permit is desired;
         (d)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired; and
         (e)   Any other information reasonably necessary to a determination as
to whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
      (2)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall submit with
the application:
         (a)   Proof satisfactory to the Village Council of public liability
insurance in a minimum amount of $250,000, per occurrence which shall name the
village as an additional insured under the policy;
         (b)   Proof satisfactory to the Village Council of compliance with the
State Liquor Control Act, being Public Act 8 of 1933 (Extra Session), being
M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1 et seq. as amended, and all rules and/or regulations
promulgated by the State Liquor Control Commission and obtaining a permit from
the State Liquor Control Commission for the requested activity; and
         (c)   Evidence of the applicant’s arrangements for security for the
event and clean up of the park or portion thereof use after the event.
   (C)   Standards for issuance of permit. Standards for issuance of a permit
for sale of alcoholic beverages in Watkins Park, Dewey Cannon Park and Carver
Park shall include the following findings by the Village Council:
[material missing]
(Ord. 132, passed 5-12-1999; Ord. 133, passed 6-9-1999; Ord. 186, passed 4-14-
2010)
§ 93.21 PARK CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to enter or remain on
the premises in the public parks of the village after 10:00 p.m. on any day.
   (B)   The closing hours provided in division (A) above shall apply to Dewey
Cannon Park and also the village park located at the corner of Ash Street and
South Elm Street in the village.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-5-1974) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
93.21 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
93.21:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of §
93.21 continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-5-1974; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Purpose; intent
   
94.03   Applicability; jurisdiction
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Responsibility of Village Manager
   
94.06   Tree Advocacy Group
   
94.07   Enforcement authority
   
94.08   Authority to accept monies
   
94.09   Permits
   
94.10   Standards and specifications manual
   
94.11   Tree protection; preservation
   
94.12   Obstruction
   
94.13   Nuisance and condemnation of trees on public and private property
   
94.14   Appeals
   
94.15   Interference
   
94.16   Emergencies
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Municipal Tree and Shrub Chapter for the
village.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection, management,
removal and replacement of trees on public property and public rights-of-way.
Proper planning and care will help ensure that these assets will continue to
thrive and benefit the citizens of the village in the future.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.03 APPLICABILITY; JURISDICTION.
   The Village Manager, or designee, shall have exclusive jurisdiction,
authority, control, supervision and direction over all trees, plants, shrubs
and grassy areas planted or growing in or upon the public rights-of-way and
public places of the village and the planting, removal, care, maintenance and
protection thereof, and he or she may promulgate and adopt rules and
regulations to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANOPY.  The part of the crown composed of leaves and small twigs.
   CROWN. The upper part of a tree, which includes the branches and leaves.
   DISEASED TREE.  Any tree with a combination of structural defect and/or a
health condition which makes it subject to a high probability of failure.
   LAWN EXTENSION. That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
   LINE CLEARANCE. The regulated trimming and the removal of trees near, under
and along utility lines to maintain reliable distribution of electricity.
   MUNICIPAL FORESTER OR DESIGNEE. Someone who possesses general knowledge of
specific trees and a broader knowledge base on the overall roles trees play in
the community setting.
   PARK. All public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the
village, or to which the public has free access.
   PARK TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the village, or to which
the public has free access as a park.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public highway, public park or any property
owned or held by the Village within its boundaries.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). Land owned and maintained by the village. Land
dedicated for streets, sidewalks, utilities, and similar public uses such as
parks, lawn extensions and the like.
   PUBLIC TREE. Any tree located on property owned or controlled by the
village.
   SHRUB. A low, small plant, the branches of which grow directly from the
earth without any supporting trunk, or stem. Any tree with a potential growth
of less than 15 feet shall be considered a SHRUB.
   STREET TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the village.
   TREE. A woody perennial plant, usually having one dominant vertical trunk
and capable of achieving a height greater than 15 feet.
   TREE ADVOCACY GROUP. A group of people designated by ordinance to advise a
governing body on matters related to an urban and community forestry program.
   UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Public right-of-way land where utilities such as gas,
electric, water, and the like are maintained.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF VILLAGE MANAGER.
   The Village Manager, or designee, as Municipal Forester, shall have
authority over any and all trees on public rights-of-way or any public property
in the village.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.06 TREE ADVOCACY GROUP.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. The Village Council has the authority to
create a Tree Advocacy Group for the village on an as needed basis. The Tree
Advocacy Group shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of the
village, who shall be appointed by the Village President with the approval of
the Village Council. The members shall come from different interest groups
including homeowners, tree professionals, Street Department and municipal
government.
   (B)   Terms of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Village President shall be set by Village Council. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Advocacy Group shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Advocacy Group to advise
and assist in the study, investigation, counsel, development and administration
of a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
municipal areas. Such plan could be presented annually to the Village Council
for possible acceptance and approval to constitute the official comprehensive
community tree plan if so desired by the Village Manager, or designee.
      (2)   The Tree Advocacy Group shall promote and supervise the
establishment of a tree inventory for street and park trees. The inventory
shall be updated with the results of ground inspections every three years.
      (3)   The Tree Advocacy Group, when requested by the Village Council,
shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any
special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
      (4)   If called on to do so, additional duties of the Tree Advocacy Group
may include coordinating annual Arbor Day celebrations; coordinating tree
plantings, volunteer efforts to install or maintain plantings or other
beautification projects on public land with citizens groups; provide a means to
involve the public in community forestry management plan; and promote new and
existing tree programs by motivating both local government and the public to
support community forestry management.
   (E)   Operation. The Tree Advocacy Group shall choose its own officers, and
keep a record of its proceedings.
   (F)   Meetings. The Tree Advocacy Group shall meet as needed and, in
addition, meetings can be called by the Chairperson or by the Village
President.
   (G)   Quorum. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business and any actions of the Tree Advocacy Group may be taken
by a majority of the members present at the meeting at which the action is
taken.
   (H)   Administrative support staff. Staff support to the Tree Advocacy Group
shall be appointed by the Village Manager, or designee.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.07 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Public Works, under the direction of the Village Manager,
or designee, shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
The Director of Public Works, or designee, shall have the authority to perform
site inspections and order the correction of unsafe trees on public and private
property that are a potential danger to the health and safety of public or
municipal property.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.08 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT MONIES.
   The Village Clerk and Village Treasurer, or either of them, are hereby
authorized to accept, on behalf of the village, all gifts of money for the
purpose of planting and maintaining trees.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.09 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall plant, spray, prune, remove, cut above or below ground
or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or municipal-owned property without
first filing an application and procuring a permit from the Village Manager, or
designee, or otherwise specified municipal authority. The person receiving the
permit shall abide by the arboricultural specifications and standards of
practice adopted by the Village Manager or designee. No permit, however, shall
be required for any municipal employee doing such work in the pursuit of their
public service endeavors. No permit shall be required to cultivate or water
public trees, shrubs or plants.
   (B)   The Village Manager or designee shall have the authority to require
posting of a bond adequate to fully repay the village for any and all costs
attendant to the completion of the work under the permit. In addition, the
contractor is required to show adequate insurance from potential damages during
the execution of the work, name the village as an additional insurance rider,
and sign a hold harmless clause.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL.
   The Tree Standards and Specifications Manual that accompanies Ordinance No.
202 is available for review at the village office, contains regulations and
standards for planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other
plants on municipally-owned property.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.11 TREE PROTECTION; PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Prohibiting the mutilation of public trees. It shall be a violation of
the provisions of this chapter for any person to abuse, destroy or mutilate any
tree, plant or shrub in a public parking strip or any other public place, or to
attach or place any rope, wire (other than one used to support a young or
broken tree), sign, poster, handbill or other things to or on any tree growing
in a public place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to
be placed or attached to any such tree, or allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid
substance which is harmful to such tree to come in contact with their roots,
trunks or leaves.
   (B)   Requiring protection of trees during construction, new developments,
sidewalk repair, utility work below ground. Trees of desirable species and good
health shall be protected as much as possible from damage during construction,
sidewalk repair, utilities work below ground, and other similar activities. The
zone of protection shall include the ground beneath the canopy and the drip-
line of the tree. In new subdivisions or when the new development of commercial
property occurs, the Village Manager, or designee, shall review landscaping
plans and may require street trees to be planted in any of the streets, parking
lots, parks and other public places abutting lands henceforth developed and/or
subdivided.
   (C)   Requiring protection of trees during utility work above ground.
Utility companies are responsible for conducting a courtesy call to the Village
Manager, or designee, to review all upcoming utility line clearance work to be
performed within the following four to six weeks. All utility line clearance
work will be performed based upon growth rates specific to individual tree
species and in accordance to the International Society of Arboriculture’s
Proper Pruning Techniques publication, found in Appendix C of the Standards and
Specifications Manual accompanying Ord. 202.
   (D)   Establishing standards to replace trees removed and protect endangered
trees. Whenever any vegetation is removed by any person, including the village,
for the construction of any public improvement, the Director of Public Works,
whenever practicable, shall require the replanting of at least 50% of the
removed diameter base with a similar tree or shrub to take the place of those
removed.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 OBSTRUCTION.
   If private property, a lawn extension or municipal right-of-way is not
maintained as required by this chapter, the Village Manager, or designee, may
have the work done to bring the property lawn extension or municipal right-of-
way into compliance. In the case of an immediate hazard to public safety, no
prior notice shall be necessary. The actual costs of the work needed to bring
the property, lawn extension or municipal right-of-way into compliance, plus an
administration fee of $50, may be assessed to the owner in addition to any
other penalties provided by law.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 NUISANCE AND CONDEMNATION OF TREES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. All street trees planted in violation of, or not maintained
in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the Standards and
Specifications Manual, or that are dead or dangerous are declared to constitute
a public nuisance. The Village Manager, or designee, shall cause written notice
to be served on the property owner requiring such nuisances to be corrected
within 30 days or the cost of correction will be assessed against the property
owner.
   (B)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property. Upon the discovery
of any destructive or communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers
the growth or health of trees, or threatens to spread disease or insect
infestations, the Village Manager, or designee, shall at once cause written
notice to be served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or
infested tree is situated, and the notice shall require such property owner to
eradicate, remove or otherwise control such condition within reasonable time to
be specified in such notice.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 APPEALS.
   Any person deciding to appeal a decision made by the Village Manager, or
designee, shall be granted a meeting with the person or department responsible
for trees to discuss the issue. The person or department responsible for trees
must be notified of the desire to meet within 14 days from when the decision
was publicized. If a discussion satisfying both parties cannot be met, a
written appeal may be submitted to the Village Council within 14 days
thereafter. The decision of the Village Council shall be final.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.15 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall prevent, delay or interfere with the Village Manager, or
designee, in the execution or enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergencies involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms,
floods, freezes or other natural disasters, the requirements of this chapter
may be waived by the Village President or Emergency Manager. This section shall
not be used to circumvent the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
   (E)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
95.01   Open burning prohibited
   
95.02   Smoke detectors required in dwelling units
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Outdoor burning prohibited. No person, firm or corporation shall burn
any wood, brush, leaves, trash, papers, rubbish or garbage out of doors
anywhere in the Village of Three Oaks. This section shall not prohibit:
      (1)   Charcoal cookers, braziers, hibachis, grills, chimneas, patio
warmers, outdoor fireplaces or gas-fired stoves and similar semi-enclosed
devices on the premises of a single-family detached residential dwelling;
provided that:
         (a)   Such device is located at least 25 feet from the nearest
structure which is not on the same property.
         (b)   The fires within such devices are gas lit or consist of only
charcoal or clean wood, defined as natural, dried and seasoned wood that has
not been painted, varnished or coated with a similar material; has not been
pressure treated with preservatives and does not contain resins or glues as in
plywood or other composite wood product with the exception of a small amount of
paper product used for the initial igniting of the fire.
         (c)   For purposes of this section a "semi-enclosed device" means a
freestanding device specifically designed and manufactured for the burning of
wood or charcoal with a lid, door or cover that may be securely closed.
         (d)   Provided that the fire does not exceed nine square feet in area
with flames no higher than three feet measured from the surface of the ground
or bottom of the fire box.
      (2)   Charcoal cookers, braziers, hibachis, grills and similar devices on
the ground level of any apartment building, townhouse, condominium, or similar
occupancy provided that:
         (a)   Such device is used solely for the preparation of food.   
         (b)   Such device is located not less than eight feet from every part
of the building, including any portion of any balcony, overhang, or protrusion.
         (c)   The fires within such devices are gas lit or consist of
charcoal.
(Ord. 112, passed 11-11-1992; Ord. 214, passed 12-12-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED IN DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED RATING ORGANIZATION. Any of the following: Underwriters Testing
Laboratories Factory Mutual Research Corp., National Bureau of Standards, or
JFPA Standard No. 74, 1975.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The Building Inspector of the village, or the
Inspector’s designee.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion of a building arranged for the use
of one or more individuals living alone or together as a single housekeeping
unit with living, sanitary and sleeping facilities.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the village, or the Chief’s designee.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Three Oaks.
      SMOKE DETECTOR. An instrument approved by an approved rating organization
for the detection of ionized gases or products of combustion produced by
burning or smoldering materials.
   (B)   System required; minimum requirements for detectors.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall have an electric or battery operated smoke
detector device for each sleeping area. Any such detector shall comply with all
applicable state or federal requirements.
      (2)   Smoke detectors shall be capable of being maintained by the person
or persons entitled to occupy the dwelling unit. Smoke detectors shall consist
of an assembly incorporating the detector, control equipment and the alarm
sounding device in one unit. They shall have a power supply consisting of a
monitored battery or a cord connection to an electrical receptacle which is
fitted with a plug restrainer device. The plug in receptacle shall not be
controlled by any switch other than that of the main power supply. Two or more
single station smoke detector assemblies may be interconnected so that
actuation of one causes all audible alarms to operate.
      (3)   Upon activation, the smoke detector shall provide an audible alarm
which is to be so distributed and have such character so that it can be heard
in all rooms of the dwelling unit with its doors closed. The audible signals
shall be distinctive from other audible signaling devices which may be used for
other purposes in the dwelling unit. The smoke detector shall be designed for
and capable of either self-restoration or manual restoration to normal
conditions for operation. No provisions shall be made for deactivation of the
audible alarm other than by reactivation of the system.
   (C)   Time of compliance.
      (1)   The owner of each dwelling unit shall cause the same to be brought
into compliance with the terms and provisions of this section, however, after
the effective date of this section no dwelling unit shall be sold or occupancy
changed unless and until the dwelling unit has been brought into compliance
with the terms and provisions of this section.
      (2)   No structural change or repair of a value in excess of $500 shall
be made to a dwelling unit unless and until the dwelling unit is brought into
compliance with the terms and provisions of this section.
      (3)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a dwelling unit
unless and until the applicant shall have first complied with all the terms and
conditions of this section.
   (D)   Certification by owner. Prior to the sale of any dwelling unit located
in the village, the owner and seller shall certify in writing to the Building
Inspector full and complete compliance of the property with the terms and
provisions of this section. The making and submission of a wilfully false
certification by the owner and seller of a dwelling unit shall be a violation
of the terms and provisions of this section.
   (E)   Mailings. Notices describing the requirements of this section shall
from time to time be included in village water bills.
(Ord. 98, passed 3-8-1989) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
   (E)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 98, passed 3-8-1989; Ord. 112, passed 11-11-1992; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995)
CHAPTER 96: DISCRIMINATION
Section
   
96.01   Intent
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Discriminatory housing practices
   
96.04   Discriminatory public accommodations practices
   
96.05   Discriminatory employment practices
   
96.06   Other prohibited practices
   
96.07   Information and investigation
   
96.08   Conciliation agreements
   
96.09   Discriminatory effects
   
96.10   Exceptions
   
96.11   Interpretation
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the village that no person shall be denied the equal
protection of the laws, nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of his or
her civil rights or be discriminated against because of race, color, religion,
national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, height, weight,
marital status, or disability.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings.
   AGE. Chronological age.
   CONTRACTOR. A person who by contract furnishes services, materials or
supplies. CONTRACTOR does not include persons who are merely creditors or
debtors of the village, such as those holding the village's notes or bonds or
persons whose notes, bonds, or stock is held by the village.
   DISCRIMINATION OR DISCRIMINATE. 
      (1)   To make a decision, offer to make a decision, or refrain from
making a decision, based in whole or in part on the actual or perceived race,
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, height, weight, marital status, or disability of another person that
results in the unequal treatment or separation of any person, or denies,
prevents, limits, or adversely effects the benefit or enjoyment of any person,
of employment, ownership, or occupancy of real property, or public
accommodations and public services.
      (2)   Discrimination based on sex includes sexual harassment, which means
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or
physical conduct or communication of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct or communication is, either
explicitly or implicitly, made a term or condition of obtaining employment,
public accommodations, or housing;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct or communication by
an individual is used as a factor in decisions affecting such individual's
employment, public accommodations, or housing; and/or
         (c)   Such conduct or communication has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with an individual's employment, public
accommodations, or housing, or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
employment, public accommodations, or housing environment.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals under the age of 18 residing with a
parent or other person having custody or in the process of securing legal
custody of the individual or individuals or residing with the designee of the
parent or other person having or securing custody, with the written permission
of the parent or other person. For purposes of this definition, PARENT includes
a person who is pregnant.
   GENDER IDENTITY. A person's actual or perceived gender, including a person's
gender identity, self-image, appearance, expression, or behavior, whether or
not that gender identity, self- image, appearance, expression, or behavior is
different from that traditionally associated with the person's sex at birth as
being either female or male.
   HOUSING FACILITY. Any dwelling unit or facility used for a person to
regularly sleep and keep personal belongings including, but not limited to, a
house, apartment, rooming house, housing cooperative, motel, tourist home,
retirement home, or nursing home.
   LOW INCOME. Eighty percent of the median family income for the area, subject
to adjustments for areas with unusually high or low incomes or housing costs.
   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, unmarried, divorced, or widowed.
   PERCEIVED. The perception of the person who acts, and not the perception of
the person for or against whom the action is taken.
   PERSON. An individual, agent, association, organization, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership or other unincorporated or incorporated
public or private entity of any kind.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. An educational, governmental, health, day
care, entertainment, cultural, recreational, refreshment, transportation,
financial institution, accommodation, business, or other facility of any kind,
whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations
are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the public, or
which receives financial support through the solicitation of the general public
or through governmental subsidy of any kind.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. A formal organization, church, group or body of
communicants that is organized not for pecuniary profit that regularly gathers
for worship and religious purposes and includes a religious based private
school that is not organized for pecuniary profit.
   SEX. The status of being a man/boy or woman/girl, and a person's conformity
to sex stereotypes. SEX shall further be defined to include a person's gender
identity.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Real or perceived male or female homosexuality,
heterosexuality, bisexuality, or asexuality.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.03 DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES.
   No person shall discriminate in leasing, selling, or otherwise making
available any housing facilities.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATORY PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PRACTICES.
   No person shall discriminate in making available full and equal access to
all goods, services, activities, privileges, and accommodations of any place of
public accommodation.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATORY EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall discriminate in the employment, compensation, work
classifications, conditions or terms, promotion or demotion, or termination of
employment of any person.
   (B)   No person shall discriminate in limiting membership, conditions of
membership, or termination of membership in any labor union or apprenticeship
program.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.06 OTHER PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall adopt, enforce, or employ any policy or requirement,
publish, post or broadcast any advertisement, sign or notice which
discriminates or indicates discrimination in providing housing, employment,
public accommodations or public services.
   (B)   No person shall discriminate in the publication or distribution of
advertising material, information or solicitation regarding housing,
employment, public accommodations, or public services.
   (C)   No agent, broker, labor union, employment agency, or any other
intermediary shall discriminate in making referrals, listings, or providing
information with regard to housing, employment, public accommodations, or
public services.
   (D)   No person shall coerce, threaten, or retaliate against a person for
making a complaint or assisting in the investigation regarding a violation or
alleged violation of this chapter, nor require, request, conspire with, assist,
or coerce another person to retaliate against a person for making a complaint
or assisting in an investigation.
   (E)   No person shall conspire with, assist, coerce or request another
person to discriminate in any manner prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.07 INFORMATION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   To begin a village investigation, any person claiming a violation of
this chapter shall file a signed, written complaint with the Village Manager
setting forth the details, including the names, dates, witnesses, and other
factual matters relevant to the claim, within 180 days of the incident forming
the basis of the complaint.
   (B)   If the complaint alleges a violation of this chapter that is currently
recognized or proscribed by Michigan or federal anti-discrimination statutes,
the Village Manager may not accept the complaint and shall direct the
complainant to file the complaint with the appropriate state or federal agency
for review and all further determination and action. The Village Manager may,
at their discretion, consult with village staff, legal counsel, and other
individuals or agencies to make such determination.
   (C)   If a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter is filed by a
village employee and the allegations fall within the scope of village personnel
policies, procedures, or a collective bargaining agreement, the Village Manager
may not accept the complaint and shall direct the employee to proceed under
such policies, procedures or collective bargaining agreement for review and all
further determination and action.
   (D)   In all other instances, if the complaint alleges a violation of this
chapter that is not currently recognized or proscribed by Michigan or federal
anti-discrimination statutes, the Village Manager or Village Manager's designee
will commence an investigation within 21 days of receiving the written
complaint. For purposes of this section, the Village Manager's designee is
determined by the Village Manager and may be an internal staff member,
including but not limited to the Public Safety Director, Deputy Public Safety
Director, or detective; legal counsel; investigator; expert; or any other
individual(s) with training or experience necessary to investigate the
complaint filed. The Village Manager or Village Manager's designee may, at
their discretion, consult with village staff, legal counsel, and other
individuals or agencies when investigating.
   (E)   No person shall provide false information to any authorized employee
investigating a complaint regarding a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   In the course of the investigation, the Village Manager or Village
Manager's designee may request a person to produce books, papers, records or
other documents which may be relevant to a violation or alleged violation of
this chapter. If said person does not comply with such request, the Village
Attorney may apply to the Berrien County Circuit Court for an order requiring
production of said materials.
   (G)   After completion of an investigation, the Village Manager or Village
Manager's designee shall give written notice of the results of the
investigation to the person who filed the complaint and the person accused of
the violation. If the investigation establishes that a violation of this
chapter occurred, the Village Manager or Village Manager's designee shall
attempt to resolve the matter by conciliation and persuasion or may refer the
complaint to the Village Attorney for prosecution in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.08 CONCILIATION AGREEMENTS.
   In cases involving alleged violations of this chapter, the Village Manager
may enter into agreements whereby persons agree to methods of terminating
discrimination or to reverse the effects of past discrimination. A violation of
such an agreement shall be a violation of this chapter. The Village Attorney
may commence a civil action to enforce a conciliation agreement.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.09 DISCRIMINATORY EFFECTS.
   No person shall adopt, enforce or employ any policy or requirement which has
the effect of creating unequal opportunities according to actual or perceived
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, height, weight, marital status, or disability for a person to obtain
housing, employment or public accommodation, except for a bona fide business
necessity. Such a necessity does not arise due to a mere inconvenience or
because of suspected or actual objection to such a person by neighbors,
customers, or other persons.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision, this chapter does not prohibit
any activity or practice determined lawful or authorized by state or federal
law, including, but not limited to, the following current examples:
      (1)   For a religious organization or institution to restrict any of its
facilities of housing or accommodations which are operated as a direct part of
religious activities to persons of the denomination. It is also permissible for
a religious organization to restrict employment opportunities, educational
facilities, housing facilities, and homeless shelters or dormitories that are
operated as a direct part of its religious activities to persons of that
denomination or who conform to the moral tenets of that religious organization.
      (2)   For the owner of an owner-occupied one-family or two-family
dwelling, or a housing facility or public accommodation facility devoted
entirely to the housing and accommodation of individuals of one sex, to
restrict occupancy and use on the basis of sex.
      (3)   To limit occupancy in a housing project or to provide public
accommodations or employment privileges or assistance to persons of low income,
over 55 years of age, or who are handicapped.
      (4)   To engage in a bona fide effort to establish an affirmative action
program to improve opportunities in employment for minorities and women.
      (5)   To discriminate based on a person's age when such discrimination is
required by state, federal or local law.
      (6)   To refuse to enter a contract with an un-emancipated minor.
      (7)   To refuse to admit to a place of public accommodation serving
alcoholic beverages a person under the legal age for purchasing alcoholic
beverages.
      (8)   To refuse to admit persons under 18 years of age to a business
providing entertainment or selling literature which the operator of said
business deems unsuitable for minors.
      (9)   For an educational institution to limit the use of its facilities
to those affiliated with such institution.
      (10)   To provide discounts on products or service to students, seniors,
or on the basis of age.
      (11)   To discriminate in any arrangement for the sharing of a dwelling
unit.
      (12)   To the rental of housing facilities in a building which contains
dwelling units for not more than two families living independently of each
other if the owner of the building or a member of the owner's family resides in
one of the dwelling units, or to the rental of a room or rooms in a single-
family dwelling by an individual if the lessor or a member of the lessor's
family resides in the dwelling.
      (13)   To the employment of an individual by one's family.
      (14)   To the use of marital status or family status in a health or
pension plan if such limitations conform to federal and state laws and
regulations.
      (15)   For a governmental institution to restrict any of its facilities
or to restrict employment opportunities based on duly adopted institutional
policies that conform to federal and state laws and regulations.
   (B)   This list is provided for illustrative purposes, recognizing that the
status of state and federal laws change from time to time. Determinations are
based on the state of the law at the time a complaint is filed.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.11 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall not be read to prohibit or interfere with a person's or a
religious institution's free exercise of religion as protected by the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution and Art. 1, § 4 of the Michigan
Constitution.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter is a civil infraction,
punishable by a fine of not more than $500, plus the costs of investigation and
prosecution. Upon a finding or an admission of responsibility, the court may
issue and enforce any judgment, writ, or order, including injunctive relief,
necessary to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Each day upon which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit in any
way the remedies, legal or equitable, which are available to the village or any
other person for the prevention or correction of discrimination. Private
actions and remedies shall be in addition to any actions for a violation which
the village may take.
(Ord. 223, passed 7-14-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
111.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   HAWKERS, VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
114.   SECOND HAND DEALERS, JUNK SHOPS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
115.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
      
116.   MEDICAL AND ADULT-USE MARIHUANA
CHAPTER 110: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose and findings
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Classification of businesses
Licensing Provisions
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Issuance of license
   
110.17   Fees
   
110.18   Inspections
   
110.19   Expiration of license
   
110.20   Suspension of license
   
110.21   Revocation of license
   
110.22   Hearings regarding license denial, suspension, revocation, appeal or
transfer of license
Business Operation Regulations
   
110.35   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
110.36   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
110.37   Additional regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit
films, videos or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
110.38   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
110.39   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
110.40   Prohibited conduct
   
110.41   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business
   
110.42   Advertising and lighting regulations
   
110.43   Hours of operation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens of the village and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the village. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the village, and on findings, interpretations and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41(1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); and Sensations. Inc., v. City of Grand Rapids,
526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., v. Metropolitan Gov’t
of Nashville and Davidson County, 466 F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of
Cincinnati, L.L.C. v. Union Township Bd. Of Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir.
2005) (en banc); Fantasy Ranch, Inc., v. City of Arlington, 459 F.3d 546(5th
Cir. 2006); City of Chicago v. Pooh Bah Enterprises, Inc., 865 N.E.2d 133 (111.
2006); Andy’s Restaurant & Lounge, Inc., v. City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550 (7th
Cir. 2006); 181 South, Inc., v. Fischer, 454 F.3d 228(3rd Cir. 2006); Bronco’s
Entertainment, Ltd. v. Charter Twp. of Van Buren, 421 F.3d 440 (6th Cir. 2005);
Charter Twp. of Van Buren v. Garter Belt, Inc., 258 Mich. App. 594 (2003);
Jott, Inc., v. Clinton Twp., 224 Mich. App. 513 (1997); Michigan ex rel. Wayne
County Prosecutor v. Dizzy Duck, 449 Mich. 353(1995); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v.
City of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); ILQ Investments, Inc., v. City
of Rochester, 25 F.3d 1413 (8th Cir. 1994); Little Mack Entm’t II, Inc., v.
Twp. of Marengo, 2008 WL 2783252 (W.D. Mich. July 17, 2008); Kentucky
Restaurant Concepts, Inc., v. City of Louisville, 209 F. Supp. 2d 672 (W.D. Ky.
2002); Restaurant Ventures V. Lexington-Fayette Urban County Gov’t, 60 S.W.3d
572 (Ky. Ct. App. 2001); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan
Government of Nashville and Davidson County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001);
Ctr.for Fair Public Policy v. Maricopa County, 336 F.3d 1153 (9th Cir. 2003);
Bigg Wolf Discount Video Sales, Inc., v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385
(D. Md. 2003); DLS, Inc., v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir. 1997);
Brandywine, Inc., v. City of Richmond, 359 F.3d 830 (6th Cir. 2004); Currence
v. City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan. 24, 2002); Broadway
Books v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Term. 1986); Bright Lights, Inc., v.
City of Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky. 1993); Bamon Corp. v. City of
Dayton, 923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991); Triplett Grille, Inc., v. City of Akron,
40 F.3d 129 (6th Cir. 1994); O’Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d
1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F. Supp. 2d
710 (N.D. Ohio 1998); Lady J. Lingerie, Inc., v. City of Jacksonville, 176 F.3d
1358 (11th Cir. 1999); In re Tennessee Public Indecency Statute, 172 F.3d 873
(6th Cir. Jan. 13 1999)(table); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc., v. City
of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar, Inc., v. Village of
Somerset, 316 F.3d 702(7th Cir. 2003); Daytona Grand, Inc., v. City of Daytona
Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th
Cir. 2007); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007);
Illinois One News, Inc., v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007);
G.M. Enterprises, Inc., v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003);
Richland Bookmart, Inc., v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Spokane
Arcade, Inc., v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); Gammoh v. City
of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion’s
Den, Inc., Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (III. Fourth
Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc.,
v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-l 66-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law (N.D. Tex. May 26, 2005); and based upon reports concerning secondary
effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses, including, but
not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden
Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979,
1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977;
Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota -
1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas
- 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale, Texas -2005; Greensboro, North
Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; McCleaiy Report - 2006; New York, New
York Times Square - 1994; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008; Warren, Michigan -
2005; and the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group On The Regulation
Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the
village finds as follows:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter
and sexual assault and exploitation;
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive
land uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area; and
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the village has a substantial governmental interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial governmental interest in preventing secondary
effects, which is the village’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent
of any comparative analysis between sexually oriented businesses and non-
sexually oriented businesses. Additionally, the village’s interest in
regulating sexually oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary
effects of either current or future sexually oriented businesses that may
locate in the village. The village finds that the cases and documentation set
forth above and relied on by the village are reasonably believed to be relevant
to said secondary effects.
   (C)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings
and legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disc players or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment having 30% or more of all usable interior, retail, wholesale or
warehouse space devoted to the distribution, display or storage of books,
magazines and other periodicals and/or photographs, drawings, slides, films,
videotapes, recording tapes and/or novelty items which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined
herein).
   ADULT CABARET. An establishment which regularly features persons who appear
semi-nude.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER or ADULT LIVE STAGE PERFORMING THEATER. An
enclosed building used for presenting material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined herein) for observation
by patrons therein. Such establishment is customarily not open to the public
generally, but only to one or more classes of the public, excluding any minor
by reason of age.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with “specified sexual activities,” or where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas.” The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the
supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays “specified anatomical areas” and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state. NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY does not
include the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
      (2)   Material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362; or
      (3)   Sexually explicit visual material as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a bikini,
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part. SEMI-NUDITY or a STATE OF SEMI-
NUDE CONDITION does not include the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
      (2)   Material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362; and/or
      (3)   Sexually explicit visual material as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, § 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater or adult live stage performing theater, escort agency, nude model
studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Portions of the human body defined as follows:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault, molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or
countries;
      (2)   Offenses for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanors
or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. The explicit display of one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; or
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral copulation or
sodomy.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.03 CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters or adult live stage performing theaters;
   (F)   Escort agencies;
   (G)   Massage parlor;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
**** LICENSING PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the village pursuant to this chapter;
and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
village.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for each
person required to sign the application, the information and/or items required
in division (E) below, accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 30% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all general partners and whether the partnership is general or
limited; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and stockholders with at least 30% ownership interest in the
corporation, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the address of
the registered office for service of process;
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specific criminal
activity as defined in this chapter, and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another
municipality or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an
officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed
under this chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another municipality
or county and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed
businesses;
      (6)   The category of sexually oriented business that the applicant
intends to engage in at the licensed premises;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s business address or other mailing address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
         (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number and/or his or her state
or federally issued tax identification number;
         (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
         (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
30 days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures of any land use identified in §
110.35 of this chapter that is within 200 feet of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is legally in existence at the time an application is submitted; and
         (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, videos
cassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall also comply with the application requirements set forth in §
110.37.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
village the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license or a copy
of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document issued
by a governmental agency;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present business telephone number, if any;
      (5)   Present business address or other mailing address;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. The Police Department shall provide fingerprinting service upon
request for a nominal fee during business hours;
      (8)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other municipality, county or state has ever had a license,
permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or had any
professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In
the event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction and describe in full the reason for
the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation
or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (9)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee license, the village shall immediately issue a temporary
license to the applicant if the applicant seeks to work in a licensed sexually
oriented business and the completed application, on its face, indicates that
the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually oriented business employee
license. The application shall then be immediately referred to the appropriate
village departments for an investigation to be made on such information as is
contained in the application. The application process shall be completed within
30 days from the date the completed application is filed, and the village shall
issue a license, unless:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information required under the
terms of this chapter for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity”
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the village within two years of the date of the current application.
If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be
subject to appeal as set forth in §
110.22.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the
village that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence
of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
110.17.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
license application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant. The village shall approve the issuance of a license to
an applicant unless:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information required under the
terms of this chapter for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate a
sexually oriented business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months;
      (5)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
been disapproved by the Health Department, Fire Department or the Building
Official as being out of compliance with applicable health, fire or building
laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; or
      (8)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with locational requirements of this chapter or the
locational requirements of any other part of the village’s ordinances.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the kind of license,
the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted and the expiration
date. Sexually oriented business licenses shall further state the address of
the sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
110.03. Sexually oriented business licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may
be easily read at any time. Sexually oriented business employee licenses shall
be kept on the licensee’s person or on the premises of the sexually oriented
business where the licensee is working.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department and the Building Official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 25 days of receipt of the application by the village.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.17 FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$250 for the initial fee for a sexually oriented business license and fifty
dollars ($125) for annual renewal; $150 for the initial sexually oriented
business employee license and $75 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.18 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department or other
village departments or agents to inspect, from time to time on an occasional
basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons
are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific
regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented
business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section shall be
narrowly construed by the village to authorize reasonable inspections of the
licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or
excessive pattern of inspections.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a misdemeanor if he or she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
110.15. Application for renewal shall be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.20 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The village shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that the licensee has:
   (A)   Knowingly violated any section of this chapter; or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.21 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
110.20 occurs and the license has been previously suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The village shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false information in the material submitted during
the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, township,
county or state for any taxes or fees in relation to a sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   When the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the village finds that the basis for the revocation
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.22 HEARINGS REGARDING LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, APPEAL OR
TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the village issues a written notice of intent to deny, suspend or
revoke a license, the village shall immediately send such notice, which shall
include the specific grounds under this chapter for such action, to the
applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or certified mail. The
notice shall be directed to the most current business address or other mailing
address on file with the village for the respondent. The notice shall also set
forth the following: The respondent shall have ten days after the delivery of
the written notice to submit, at the office of the village, a written request
for a hearing. If the respondent does not request a hearing within the ten
days, the village’s written notice shall become a final denial, suspension or
revocation, as the case may be, on the thirtieth day after it is issued, and
shall be subject to the provisions of division (B) below.
      (1)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the village shall, within ten days after the submission of
the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date, time and
place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than ten days nor
more than 20 days after the date that the hearing notice is issued. The village
shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      (2)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the
village’s witnesses. The village shall also be represented by counsel, and
shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending or
revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless
extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall issue a
final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to
this chapter, to the respondent within five days after the hearing.
      (3)   If the decision is to deny, suspend or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer’s decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the village to immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend
or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by certified mail
of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the village shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
village shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the decision. The following shall apply to any
sexually oriented business that is, in all respects, lawfully operating as a
sexually oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is,
in all respects, lawfully employed as a sexually oriented business employee, on
the date on which the completed business or employee application, as
applicable, is filed with the Village Clerk: Upon the filing of any court
action to appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the village’s
enforcement of the denial, suspension or revocation, the village shall
immediately issue the applicant or licensee (respondent) a provisional license.
The provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the
sexually oriented business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented
business employee and will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the
respondent’s appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the
village’s enforcement.
   (C)   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall
a licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
**** BUSINESS OPERATION REGULATIONS ****
§ 110.35 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business may only be located on a property located
within the C-1 Commercial District pursuant to the village zoning ordinance,
Ordinance Number 152, as amended, adopted March 12, 2003. It shall be unlawful
for any person to operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business
within 200 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges and
universities; SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      (3)   A public library or other public building;
      (4)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the village
zoning ordinance and zoning map;
      (5)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar
public land within the village which is under the control, operation, or
management of the village park and recreation authorities;
      (6)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in the village zoning ordinance;
      (7)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment;
      (8)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the state; or
      (9)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to this chapter as a
sexually oriented business.
   (B)   For the purpose of division (A) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used to conduct a sexually
oriented business, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed
in division (A) above. The presence of a use listed in division (A) above that
is located outside the geographic boundaries of the village shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.36 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttal presumption that
the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented license, he or she rents or sub-rents a sleeping
room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or
she rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT
FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The village may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared;
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant;
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the village;
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises;
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station;
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above;
      (7)   No viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space may be
occupied by more than one person at any time;
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level;
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises;
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths;
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms;
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist;
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting; and
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above
commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
appear semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity, or
to knowingly allow another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.40 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or depict
specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least six feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer in a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to sell, use or consume
alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly allow a
person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and advertise the presentation of any activity
prohibited by an applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   A person shall not display or otherwise exhibit the materials and/or
performances available at a sexually oriented business in any advertising which
is affixed to or otherwise visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall
not extend to advertising of the existence or location of such sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   A person shall not allow any portion of the interior premises of a
sexually oriented business to be visible from outside the premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premise.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the village,
commonly known as the sexually oriented business ordinance, as it may be
amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted village ordinances or
regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., on any day.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or any other legal entity who violates
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
fined not more than $500 and/or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist or occur, and each separate
occurrence, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
CHAPTER 111: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   License prohibited for certain persons
   
111.03   Application for license; fee
   
111.04   Inspection of premises by Police Chief; approval or disapproval by
Village Council
   
111.05   License to be displayed
   
111.06   Expiration and renewal of license; revocation
   
111.07   Transfer of license
   
111.08   Alcoholic beverages, controlled substances and gambling prohibited
   
111.09   Hours of operation; prohibited conduct
   
111.10   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No public billiard or pool room, dance hall, pinball arcade, video game
arcade or bowling alley shall be established, maintained or conducted in any
place within the village without first obtaining a permit from the Village
Council.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 LICENSE PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PERSONS.
   No person shall be granted a permit under the provisions of this chapter who
is under the age of 18 years and who has not resided within the state for a
period of at least one year prior to the application for such permit; nor shall
any permit be granted to any person who has been convicted of any crime
involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring or intending to operate such an
establishment for profit in the village shall file a written application for a
license with the Village Clerk. The applicant shall state the location of the
proposed establishment, the name of the owners of such establishment or any
other persons having a proprietary interest therein, and name, age and place of
residence of any and all persons who are or will be actively engaged in the
management thereof. Such application shall be signed by the prospective
licensee and there shall also be paid and remitted with such application the
sum of $50 which sum shall be the annual license fee for all licenses required
hereunder.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 INSPECTION OF PREMISES BY POLICE CHIEF; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY
VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of such application and remittance, the Village Clerk shall
forthwith refer the application to the Police Chief who shall make a personal
inspection of the premises and determine whether or not the facts alleged in
the application are true and note his or her findings on said application. The
Police Chief shall also investigate the general reputation and character of the
applicant and note his or her findings on the application. Upon the return of
the application by the Police Chief, the Village Clerk shall present the same
to the Village Council at its next regular meeting, or at a special meeting
held for that purpose, and the Village Council shall, by a majority vote of the
members present and voting, either approve or disapprove the application for
granting of the license.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 111.05 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Upon issuance of the license as hereinabove provided, the licensee shall
then be permitted to operate the establishment licensed under said application
and such license shall at all times be openly displayed in the licensed
establishment.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE; REVOCATION.
   (A)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on January 1 of each year
but shall be renewed automatically by the Village Clerk upon the payment to him
or her of the annual license fee of $50 by a licensee on or before the
aforesaid expiration date. Upon receipt of payment, the Village Clerk shall
issue a new license for the ensuing year; provided, however, not later than
December 1 of the year preceding the expiration of any license, the Police
Chief shall make an inspection of all establishments for which applications for
renewal licenses are pending and make a written report to the Village Council
as to the lawful operation of such establishments.
   (B)   The Village Council, by a majority vote of its members present and
voting, may revoke any existing license or deny the granting of any application
for a renewal of any license for good cause shown after notice to the licensee
and a public hearing held pursuant to these statutes in such cases made and
provided.
   (C)   In the event of revocation as herein provided, the Village Clerk shall
forthwith revoke such license and advise the licensee in writing of such
revocation and following which such licensee shall immediately cease and desist
from operating and/or maintaining such establishment.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee may transfer his or her license to a new owner or purchaser of
the establishment upon the payment to the Village Clerk of a transfer fee of
$50 after the proposed transferee has filed an application and been approved by
the Village Council in the same manner as hereinabove required for a new
licensee. The Village Clerk shall then endorse the existing license as having
been properly transferred to the transferee.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 111.08 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No alcoholic beverages or controlled substances shall be used or sold in any
such establishment or anywhere on the premises on which such establishment is
situated at any time and no gambling or gambling devices shall be conducted or
permitted in such establishment at any time. Provided, however, the sale of
alcoholic beverages shall not be prohibited in those establishments licensed
and controlled by the State Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 HOURS OF OPERATION; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   All establishments licensed hereunder shall be closed after 2:00 a.m., and
shall not open until noon on Sundays. Such establishments shall be open for
inspection by any and all law enforcement officers at all reasonable times.
Such establishments shall be kept clean, orderly, well-lighted and sanitary at
all times and no filth or dirt shall be allowed to accumulate therein. The use
of profanity shall be prohibited and any person who becomes disorderly or
profane shall immediately be ejected from the establishment.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any fraternal, religious
or other organization which maintains billiard or pool tables, pinball games,
video games, dance halls or bowling alleys for the use of their members and
merely incidental to the principal activities of such an organization. Provided
further, any business establishment that has not more than one pool table,
pinball game or video game, the use of which is incidental to its principal
business, shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to the other provisions of this chapter, is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter committed by a person within any six-month period and for which the
person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
CHAPTER 112: HAWKERS, VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Definition
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Issuance of license; expiration; suspension or revocation
   
112.06   License to be carried and exhibited; nontransferability
   
112.07   Special provisions regarding food products
   
112.08   Cash bond required for taking of orders for future delivery
   
112.09   State license no exemption from this chapter
   
112.10   Invitation required to enter private home
   
112.11   License required for carnivals, fairs or tent shows
   
112.12   License required to take photographs or sell magazines
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Hawkers, Vendors,
Solicitors and Peddlers Chapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, company, association
or organization.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall peddle or hawk any goods, wares, merchandise, service or
other articles or things of value within the village, or sell or offer to sell
the same, on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public place, or from
house to house, or place to place, without first obtaining a license from the
village, nor shall any person go from house to house soliciting or taking
orders for goods, wares, merchandise, services or other articles or things of
value to be delivered at some subsequent date or dates, without first obtaining
a license from the village.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each application for license shall be made to the Village Clerk at
least 48 hours in advance of the time for which the applicant seeks its
issuance. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name;
      (2)   The applicant’s local address and telephone number and permanent
address and telephone number (if different from the local address and number);
      (3)   State sales tax license or permit number or exemption certificate;
      (4)   Physical description;
      (5)   Age;
      (6)   The name of any person that the applicant is working for or on
behalf of and that person’s local address; and
      (7)   A brief description of activity the applicant desires to conduct in
the village.
   (B)   The application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992; Ord. 115, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 112.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a properly completed application, the Village Clerk
shall issue a license pursuant to this chapter which shall contain all the
information required to be submitted on the application. No license shall be
issued for more than one year or less than one day. All annual licenses shall
expire on May 31 of each year. All licenses for a period of less than one year
shall expire on the date mentioned thereon.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall have authority to revoke or suspend any
license issued as a result of any misrepresentation or false statement made by
the applicant in order to obtain such license, or for the licensee’s violation
of or failure to comply with any village ordinance or state law. The Village
Clerk shall report all suspensions to the Village Council which may for cause
shown revoke or reinstate the license after giving the licensee a reasonable
notice and an opportunity to be heard. No person whose license has been revoked
shall receive another license for a period of one year thereafter.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.06 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   The holder of any license issued hereunder shall carry the same with him or
her at all times and shall exhibit it to any citizen upon demand. No licensee
shall alter, remove or delete any entry made on such license. No license issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 SPECIAL PROVISIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS.
   No license shall be granted to any person for the peddling or hawking of
food, food products or edibles of any character unless the applicant shall
first secure a certificate from the County Health Department or a licensed
medical doctor setting forth that the applicant is not suffering from any
contagious or infectious disease. If the applicant is not an individual, a
certificate must be provided for each employee of the applicant directly
involved with the hawking or peddling of food, food products or edibles of any
character, or involved with acquiring the product and/or preparing it for sale.
A person selling his or her own home-grown agricultural products at his or her
place of residence shall be exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter, provided that no person shall sell his or her products from a motor
vehicle parked on or along a public highway without first obtaining a license.
This section shall not apply to any applicant who desires to sell pre-packaged
food, food products or edibles of any character which are contained, in sealed
packages or containers, and which the applicant is not involved in packaging
for sale.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 CASH BOND REQUIRED FOR TAKING OF ORDERS FOR FUTURE DELIVERY.
   (A)   No person soliciting or taking orders for goods, wares, merchandise,
services or other articles or things of value to be delivered at some future
date or dates shall ask for or receive any deposit or any payment or part
payment of money or other valuable thing in advance of such delivery unless
such person shall have first deposited with the Village Clerk a cash bond in
the amount of $500, or a surety bond in like amount with good and sufficient
sureties to be approved by the Village Clerk, conditioned to indemnify and save
harmless any person dealing with any such solicitor against any damage or loss
which he or she may suffer by reason of the failure of any such good, wares,
merchandise or services to be delivered, or by reason of any false or
fraudulent representation which such solicitor may have made with respect to
the same. No license shall be issued to any solicitor until the bond required
hereby shall have been deposited with and approved by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Deposits of money or bonds made with the Village Clerk as required by
the provisions of this section shall be subject to the claims of creditors in
all cases where a judgment has been obtained against such licensee and the date
for the appeal of such judgment has expired. In such cases, garnishment
proceedings may be commenced against the Village Clerk. It shall be the duty of
the Village Clerk to remit to any court any balance of such cash deposit
remaining in his or her hands not exceeding the amount of the judgment for the
purpose of satisfying the same. Any balance of such cash deposit remaining in
the hands of the Village Clerk for a period of six months after the expiration
of the license shall be remitted to the licensee. Any license issued under the
provisions of this section shall expire and be void as soon as the amount of
the bond filed with the Village Clerk shall have been diminished or used in
whole or in part because of suits as provided for above.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.09 STATE LICENSE NO EXEMPTION FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The fact that any person has been granted a license by the state or other
public authority shall not exempt such person from securing a license from the
village if such license is required by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.10 INVITATION REQUIRED TO ENTER PRIVATE HOME.
   No peddler, hawker or solicitor shall enter any private home or other place
unless invited to do so by the owner or occupant thereof, nor shall any
peddler, hawker or solicitor remain upon any private premises after being
ordered or requested to leave by the owner or occupant thereof.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CARNIVALS, FAIRS OR TENT SHOWS.
   No person shall promote, conduct, operate or maintain any carnival, circus,
fair, freak show or tent show in any public street, alley or other public
place, nor shall any person promote, conduct, operate or maintain the same in
any private place without license from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 LICENSE REQUIRED TO TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS OR SELL MAGAZINES.
   No person shall go from house to house or place to place within the village
for the purpose of taking photographic portraits or soliciting orders therefor,
or for the purpose of selling or taking orders for magazines, without a
license.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
    (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §§
130.16 through
130.20 committed by a person within any six-month period and for which the
person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of those sections continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Franchise Provisions
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Nonexclusive franchise to install and operate cable television system
   
113.04   Authority granted by franchise
   
113.05   Application for franchise
   
113.06   Franchise procedure
   
113.07   Acceptance of franchise
   
113.08   Franchise requirements
   
113.09   Construction and use of facilities
   
113.10   Standards
   
113.11   Franchise limitation
   
113.12   Regulation of rates and service
   
113.13   Inspection of property and records
   
113.14   Default
Rate Regulation
   
113.25   Definitions
   
113.26   Purpose; interpretation
   
113.27   Rate regulation promulgated by FCC
   
113.28   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
113.29   Proprietary information
   
113.30   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
113.31   Tolling order
   
113.32   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following 30-day
deadline
   
113.33   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
113.34   Rate decisions and orders
   
113.35   Refunds; notice
   
113.36   Written decision; public notice
   
113.37   Additional rules adopted by Council
   
113.38   Failure to give notice
   
113.39   Additional hearings
   
113.40   Additional powers
   
113.41   Failure to comply; remedies
   
113.42   Conflicting provisions
**** FRANCHISE PROVISIONS ****
§ 113.01 TITLE.
   This shall be known as the Cable Television Subchapter.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE. The simultaneous delivery by the grantee to the television,
radio or other appropriate communications receiver of a subscriber of all
signals of over-the-air broadcasters required by the Federal Communications
Commission or this subchapter to be carried by the cable television system of
the grantee, together with such additional public, educational, governmental,
leased or other access channels or signals as may be likewise required by law,
but not including pay or subscription television as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   COMMITTEE. A committee of the Village Council consisting of three Council
members, appointed by the Village President, which shall be directly
responsible for over-seeing and controlling the granting of a franchise
pursuant to this subchapter and for over-seeing any franchise which may be
granted.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV or  CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A
system employing antenna, microwave, wires, wave guides, coaxial cables or
other conductors, equipment or facilities designed, constructed or used for the
purpose of:
      (1)   Collecting and amplifying local or distant broadcast television or
radio signals and distributing and transmitting same;
      (2)   Transmitting original cablecast programming not received through
television broadcast signals; or
      (3)   Transmitting television pictures, film and video tape programs, not
received through broadcast television signals, whether or not encoded or
processed to permit reception by only selected receivers; provided, however,
that any of the services permitted hereunder to be performed, as described
above, shall be those performed by the grantee for subscribers, as herein
defined in the operation of a cable television or CATV system franchised by the
village and not otherwise, and provided further that such term shall not
include any such facility or system that serves only the residents of one or
more apartment dwelling or commercial establishments under common ownership,
control or management.
   FRANCHISE. Any authorization granted hereunder in terms of a franchise,
privilege, permit, license or otherwise to construct, operate and maintain a
cable television system within the village.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The territory within the village throughout which the
grantee shall be authorized hereunder to construct, maintain and operate its
system.
   GRANTEE. Any person, firm or corporation receiving the grant of any
franchise hereunder and shall include any lawful successor to the interest of
such person, firm or corporation.
   SUBSCRIBER or USER. Any person or entity receiving for any purpose any
service of the grantee’s cable television system including, but not limited to,
the conventional cable television system service of re-transmission of
television broadcast, radio signals, the grantee’s original cablecasting and
the local government, education and public access channels; and other services,
such as leasing of channels, data and facsimile transmission, pay television
and police, fire and similar public service communication.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Three Oaks.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Council of the village.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.03 NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE TO INSTALL AND OPERATE CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM.
   A nonexclusive franchise to install, construct, operate and maintain a cable
television system on streets within the village may be granted by the Village
Council to any person whether operating under an existing franchise, or not,
who offers to furnish and provide such system under and pursuant to the terms
and provisions of this subchapter. No provision of this subchapter may be
deemed or construed to require the granting of a franchise when, in the opinion
of the Council, it is in the public interest to restrict the number of the
grantees to one or more, and competitive franchises covering the same territory
shall be restricted to those instances where the applicant for the second
franchise can offer a unique or legally protected service which is not
available and cannot be made available to the grantee of the existing
franchise.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.04 AUTHORITY GRANTED BY FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall authorize and permit the grantee to do the following:
      (1)   Erect, install, construct, repair, replace, re-construct, maintain
and retain, in, on, over, under, across and along any public street, alley, way
or place now laid out and dedicated and all extensions thereof, such poles,
wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant
to the CATV system; and in addition, so to use, operate and provide similar
facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons, firms or
corporations, including, but not limited to, any public utility or other
grantee of any franchise of this village;
      (2)   Maintain and operate facilities and properties for the collection,
transmission, conduction, amplification, conversion and distribution of
programs and other services by use of electricity, radiation or other energy
source; or
      (3)   Solicit, sell, distribute and make charge to subscribers within the
village for connection to the CATV system of the grantee.
   (B)   A franchise granted solely to traverse any portion of the village in
order to provide service outside the village, shall not authorize nor permit
the grantee to solicit, sell, distribute or make any charge to subscribers
within the village, nor to render any service or connect any subscribers within
the village to the CATV system of the grantee.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.05 APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   All applications to construct, operate or maintain any CATV system in this
village or to traverse any portion of the village for transmitting or conveying
of such service elsewhere, shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and each
application shall set forth, contain or be accompanied by the following:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (B)   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the applicant including, but not limited to, the following;
      (1)   The names, residence addresses and business addresses of all
officers, directors and partners or business associates of the applicant;
      (2)   The names, residence addresses and business addresses of all
persons and entities having an ownership interest in the applicant and the
respective ownership share of each such person or entity;
      (3)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant and of any other business entity owning or controlling in whole or in
part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a
statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business
entity, including, but not limited to, all CATV or similar systems owned or
controlled by the applicant, its parent or subsidiary and the areas served
thereby;
      (4)   A detailed description of all previous experience of the applicant
as to providing CATV service or related or similar services;
      (5)   A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant,
prepared by certified public accountant, for the fiscal year next preceding the
date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence in
writing from a responsible lending institution or funding source, addressed to
both the applicant and the Council, setting forth the basis for a study
performed by such lending institution or funding source, and a clear statement
of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide whatever
capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the
proposed system in the village, or a statement from a certified public
accountant, certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net
and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed system in
this village; and
      (6)   A statement indentifying, by place and date, any other cable
television franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiaries;
the status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; the total
cost of completion of such system(s); and the amount of applicant’s and its
parent’s or subsidiary’s resources committed to the completion thereof.
   (C)   A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the
applicant, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, routes
to be taken, a diagram of the equipment which will be exposed and a proposed
time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become
operational throughout the entire area to be served;
      (2)   A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications
of rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges
as to each of any said classification, including installation charges, service
charges and special, extraordinary or other charges. The purchase price, terms
and nature of any optional or required equipment, device or other thing to be
offered for sale to any subscriber shall be described and explained in detail;
and
      (3)   A detailed statement describing the actual equipment and
operational standards proposed by the applicant.
   (D)   A copy of the form of any agreement undertaking or other instrument
proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber;
   (E)   Any other information pertinent to the subject matter of such
application and requested by the Committee; and
   (F)   An application fee in the sum of $250 which shall be in the form of
cash, certified or cashier’s check or money order to pay the costs of studying,
investigating and otherwise processing such application and shall not be
returnable or refundable in whole or in part except to the extent that such fee
exceeds the actual cost incurred by the village in studying, investigating and
otherwise processing the application.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.06 FRANCHISE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Village Council may, by advertisement or any other means, solicit
and call for application for CATV franchises, and may determine and fix the
time for filing such applications.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any application for franchise, in manner, time and
form as herein or otherwise provided, the Village Clerk shall forward and
deliver same to the Committee.
   (C)   Upon receiving the same from the Village Clerk, as aforesaid, the
Committee shall cause such application to be investigated, shall prepare a
report of such investigation, shall make its recommendations respecting such
application, and shall cause said report and recommendations to be placed upon
the agenda of a regular or special session of the Village Council. A copy of
such report and recommendations and notice of the date it will be presented to
the Village Council shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the applicant at
the address listed in the application. The Village Clerk shall cause notice of
such meeting to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, stating the hour, date and place of the meeting,
stating that the proposed franchise will be considered, and stating that
comments from the public will be heard.
   (D)   The Village Council shall receive the report and recommendations of
the Committee, shall consider the same together with such application, and
comments of the public and shall make its determination either that such
application be accepted upon such terms and conditions as the Village Council
shall determine, or that such application be rejected. The Village Council may
make its determination at the regular or special session at which the Committee
report is received or may defer the decision to a subsequent regular session of
the Village Council. In making any determination as to any application, the
Council shall consider the quality of the service proposed, the rates to
subscribers, income to the village, experience, character and financial
responsibility of the applicant and its management and owners, the technical
and performance quality of the equipment to be used, the willingness and
ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements, policy
considerations, franchise limitations and requirements imposed by this
subchapter and any other considerations deemed pertinent by the Village
Council.
   (E)   If the Village Council shall determine that such application shall be
rejected, such determination shall be final and conclusive. If the Village
Council shall determine that such application shall be accepted, the Council
shall:
      (1)   Decide and specify the terms and conditions of any franchise to be
granted hereunder and as herein provided; and
      (2)   Pass an ordinance or resolution granting such franchise, stating
the name of the grantee, the character of the franchise and the terms and
conditions upon which such franchise is granted.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.07 ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No franchise hereunder shall become effective for any purpose unless
and until a written acceptance thereof shall have been filed with the Village
Clerk, and such written acceptance shall operate as an acceptance of each and
every term and condition and limitation contained in this subchapter, and in
such franchise.
   (B)   Such written acceptance shall be filed by the grantee not later than
30 days after grant of the franchise as provided above, and in default of such
written acceptance as herein required, the grantee shall be deemed to have
rejected the same.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.08 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to any other franchise requirements hereunder, or made or
adopted as herein provided, the following requirements shall apply to any
franchise granted or renewed by the Village Council under this subchapter.
   (A)   Franchise payments, operations within franchise area. In consideration
of the granting and exercise of a franchise to use the streets of the franchise
area for the purpose of operating a cable television system for the use and
benefit of subscribers therein, the grantee shall pay yearly to the village
during the entire time of any franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter, an
annual franchise fee equal to 3% of the grantee’s yearly gross revenues derived
from all cable services provided by the grantee within the village, or $250,
whichever is greater.
   (B)   Franchise payments, operations outside franchise area. In
consideration of the granting and exercise of a franchise to use the streets of
the franchise area solely for the purpose of providing cable television service
to subscribers outside the franchise area, the grantee shall pay to the village
during the entire life of the franchise, a franchise fee as specified by the
Council when such franchise is granted, which fee shall be separate and
distinct from that specified in division (A) above.
   (C)   Franchise payments not in lieu of taxes. Any franchise payments to the
village by the grantee shall not be in lieu of any occupation, income, license
or property tax or similar levy, assessment or charge which would otherwise
apply to and be payable by the grantee.
   (D)   Corporate surety bond re: village. The franchise granted shall specify
that upon acceptance of such franchise, the grantee shall file with the Village
Clerk and shall thereafter during the entire term of such franchise maintain in
full force and effect a corporate surety bond or other adequate surety
agreement in the amount and kind specified in the franchise granted and
conditioned that in the event the grantee shall fail to comply with any one or
more of the provisions of such franchise, then there shall be recoverable
jointly and severally from the principal and surety any damages or costs
suffered or incurred by the village or by any subscriber as a result thereof,
including attorneys’ fees and costs of any action, or proceeding, and including
the full amount of any compensation, indemnification, cost of removal of any
property or other costs which may be incurred up to the full principal amount
of such bond; and said condition shall be a continuing obligation during the
entire term of such franchise and thereafter until the grantee shall have
satisfied in full any and all obligations to the village and any subscriber
which arise out of or pertain to said franchise. Neither the provisions of this
section, nor any bond accepted by the village pursuant hereto nor any damages
recovered by the village thereunder shall be construed to excuse faithful
performance by the grantee, or limit the liability of the grantee under any
franchise issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   Comprehensive liability insurance. Upon acceptance of such franchise,
the grantee shall file with the Village Clerk and shall thereafter during the
entire term of such franchise maintain in full force and effect a comprehensive
liability policy of insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 for
property damage to any one person, $500,000 for property damage in any one
accident, $500,000 for personal injury to any one person and $1,000,000 for
personal injury in any one accident or such higher amounts as the Village
Council may fix in the franchise, or any amendment thereto, and of such
insuring institutions, form and substance as shall be approved by the
Committee, and which shall assure the grantee, and shall provide primary
coverage for the village, its officers, board, committees, agents and employees
against liability for loss or damage for personal injury, death and property
damage occasioned by any activity or operation of the grantee under such
franchise.
   (F)   Hold harmless agreement. The grantee shall indemnify and hold harmless
the village, its officers, board, committees, agents and employees against and
from any and all claims, demands, causes of actions, actions, suits,
proceedings, damages, (including, but not limited, to damages to village
property and damages arising out of copyright infringements, and damages
arising out of any failure by the grantee to secure consents from the owners,
authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be delivered by the
grantee’s cable television system), costs or liabilities (including costs or
liabilities of the village with respect to its employees), of every kind and
nature whatsoever including, but not limited to, damages for injury or death or
damage to person or property, and regardless of the merit of any of the same,
against all liability to others, and against any loss, cost and expense
resulting or arising out of any of the same including any attorney fees,
accountant fees, expert witness or consultant fees, court costs, per diem
expense, travelling and transportation expense or other costs or expense
arising out of or pertaining to the exercise or the enjoyment of any franchise
hereunder by the grantee or the granting thereof by the village.
   (G)   Defense of litigation. The grantee shall at the sole risk and expense
of the grantee, upon demand of the village, made by and through the Village
Attorney, appear in and defend any and all suits, actions or other legal
proceedings whether judicial, quasi-judicial, administrative, legislative or
otherwise, brought or instituted or had by third persons or duly constituted
authorities, against or affecting the village, its officers, board, committees,
agents or employees and arising out of or pertaining to the exercise or the
enjoyment of such franchise, or the granting thereof by the village.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.09 CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after acceptance of any franchise, the grantee shall
proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations
which are required in the conduct of its business, including, but not limited,
to any utility joint use attachment agreements, microwave carrier licenses, and
any other permits, licenses and authorizations to be granted by duly
constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operation of cable
television systems, or associated microwave transmissions facilities. In
connection therewith, copies of all petitions, applications and communications
submitted by the grantee to the Federal Communications Commission or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or any agency having jurisdiction in
respect to any matters affecting the grantee’s cable television operations,
shall also be submitted simultaneously to the Committee.
   (B)   Within 30 days after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and
authorizations, including right of access to poles and conduits, the grantee
shall commence construction and installation of the CATV system.
   (C)   Within two years after the commencement of construction and
installation of the system, the grantee shall complete construction of the
facilities needed to permit the reception of broadcast signals, the origination
of programming within the village, and the distribution of signals to the
franchise area. Provided, however, the Village Council may approve exceptions
to this requirement upon a showing by the grantee of undue hardship or expense.
   (D)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth herein shall be grounds for termination of such franchise.
   (E)   The grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other
facilities whenever possible and shall not construct or install any new,
different or additional poles, conduits or other facilities without first
securing the written approval of the Committee. Any poles, conduits or other
facilities of the grantee to be installed in, under, over, along, across or
upon a public street, alley, way or place shall be so located so as to cause
minimum interference with the rights of other users of the streets, alleys,
ways or places or of property owners who adjoin any of the streets, alleys,
ways or places. In the event of disturbance of any public street, alley, place
or way by the grantee, it shall, at its own expense, promptly replace and
restore such street to as good a condition as before the work causing such
disturbance was performed, and to the satisfaction of the Committee.
   (F)   In all sections of the village where all existing cables or other like
facilities of utility companies are presently or subsequently placed
underground, the grantee shall place its cables or like facilities underground,
at the grantee’s expense.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, free of charge, to make additional
use, for any public or municipal purpose, whether governmental or proprietary,
of any poles, conduits or other facilities erected, controlled, or maintained
exclusively by or for the grantee in any street or other public way or public
place, provided such use by the village does not interfere with the use by the
grantee.
   (H)   The grantee shall at the expense of the grantee, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect or temporarily relocate any property of the grantee
when, in the opinion of the Committee, the same is required by reason of street
construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers,
drains, waterpipes, power lines or signal lines.
   (I)   In the event the use of any part of the system of the grantee is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 30 days, without prior
written notice to and approval by the Committee, or in the event any part of
such system has been installed in any street or other area without complying
with the requirements hereof, or in the event any franchise shall be
terminated, cancelled or shall expire, the grantee shall, at the option of the
village, and at the expense of the grantee and at no expense to the village,
promptly remove from any street or other area all property of the grantee and
the grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such
property has been removed to such condition as the Committee shall approve;
provided the Village Council may, upon written application therefore by the
grantee; approve the abandonment of any such property in place by the grantee
and under such terms and conditions as the Village Council may prescribe; and
upon abandonment of any such property in place, the grantee shall cause to be
executed, acknowledged and delivered to the village such instruments as shall
be approved by the Committee, conveying the ownership of such property to the
village.
   (J)   Upon the failure, refusal or neglect of the grantee to cause any work
or other act required by law or by this subchapter to be completed in, on, over
or under any street within any time prescribed therefor, or upon notice given,
where notice is prescribed, the Committee may cause such work or other act to
be completed in whole or in part, and upon so doing shall submit to the grantee
an itemized statement of the costs thereof, and the grantee shall, within 30
days after receipt of such statement, pay unto the village the entire amount
thereof.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.10 STANDARDS.
   (A)   General rules. The CATV system of a grantee receiving a franchise
shall:
      (1)   Be capable of relaying to subscriber terminals television and radio
broadcast signals;
      (2)   Be constructed with the capability of two-way digital signal
transmission;
      (3)   Distribute color television signals which it receives;
      (4)   Be constructed and operated so as not to interfere with the
television reception of persons not served by the grantee and so as not to
interfere with, obstruct or hinder in any manner the operation of any utility
serving the village;
      (5)   Provide at least one channel, without charge, for exclusive use of
the village and other governmental agencies;
      (6)   Provide at least one channel, without charge, for use by the public
school system; provided, however, the Village Council may waive this
requirement at the time a franchise is granted if the franchise so granted
provides for the addition of said channel by the grantee at the request of the
Village Council, after the Village Council has determined there is a demand for
said channel; and
      (7)   Provide at least one channel as a public access channel for use by
civic groups and interested citizens; provided, however, the Village Council
may waive this requirement at the time a franchise is granted if the franchise
so granted provides for the addition of said channel by the grantee at the
request of the Village Council, after the Village Council has determined there
is a demand for said channel.
   (B)   Additional services. The cable television system may also engage in
the business of:
      (1)   Transmitting original cablecast programming not received through
television broadcast signals;
      (2)   Transmitting television pictures, film and videotape programs, not
received through broadcast television signals, whether or not encoded or
processed to permit reception by only selected receivers or subscribers; and/or
      (3) Transmitting and receiving all other signals: digital, voice and
audio-visual.
   (C)   Refusal of service. No person, firm or corporation within the service
area of the grantee, and where trunk lines are in place, shall be refused
service; provided, however, that the grantee shall not be required to provide
service to any subscriber who does not pay the applicable connection fee or
service charges.
   (D)   Service standards. The grantee shall:
      (1)   Correct malfunctions promptly but in no event later than 24 hours
after occurrence; in the event it should be impossible or impractical to
correct any malfunctions within 24 hours, then each subscriber whose reception
is so disrupted shall receive a rebate from the grantee in the amount of one
thirtieth of such subscriber’s monthly charge for every additional 24-hour
period that said subscriber’s television reception is so disrupted, unless said
disruption in service was entirely beyond the control of the grantee;
      (2)   Answer all complaints by subscribers;
      (3)   Planned interruptions of service, insofar as possible, shall be
preceded by a notice given to subscribers 24 hours in advance and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system;
      (4)   Maintain an office in the village, which office shall be open
during the usual business hours, with a local telephone number listed in
directories of the telephone company serving the village, which office shall be
so operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received at any time, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provided, however,
that the Village Council may waive the requirement of maintaining an office in
the village, if the grantee shall maintain an office in the area, subject to
the same standards as if in the village, and provide an agent in the village to
receive payments and accept complaints; and
      (5)   Provide notice of such office, or area office and local agent, and
the grantee’s complaint procedure to each subscriber at the time of initial
subscription to the system.
   (E)   Complaint procedures. The Committee shall have primary responsibility
for the administration of complaints regarding cable television franchises, and
shall adopt procedures to be followed in resolving and processing such
complaints.
   (F)   Content. The grantee shall not send, transmit, retransmit or otherwise
pass through its system any material, audio or visual, which is obscene under
state or local law or any motion picture which has been rated “X” by the Motion
Picture Film Board.
   (G)   Failure to provide service. Any grantee of any franchise hereunder who
shall, within one year after the payment of any installation charge by any
subscriber, fail to operate its system or make its system available to such
subscriber, on a regular and continuous basis, shall refund the installation
charge to such subscriber, together with interest thereon at not less than 5%
per year.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.11 FRANCHISE LIMITATION.
   In addition to any other franchise limitations hereunder or as herein
provided, the following limitations shall apply to any franchise granted or
renewed by the Village Council under this subchapter.
   (A)   Nature of franchise. Such franchise shall be nonexclusive, and neither
the granting thereof nor any of the provisions contained herein or in such
franchise shall limit, abridge, diminish, alter or affect the right, privilege,
power or authority of the Village Council; and the Village Council hereby
reserves and preserves the right to grant any identical or similar or different
franchise to any person, firm or corporation other than the grantee, either
within or without or partly within or partly without the franchise area of any
grantee, subject only to the restrictions provided in §
113.04(A) of this subchapter. No privilege or exemption shall be granted or
conferred by any franchise granted hereunder except those specifically
prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Subordination of franchise privileges. The grant of any privilege by
any franchise hereunder shall be subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of
any street or public property or to the grant of any privilege under any other
franchise of prior date, insofar as there shall be any conflict.
   (C)   Transfer of franchise. Any franchise granted hereunder shall be a
privilege to be held in personal trust by the original grantee. It cannot, in
any event, be sold, transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of in whole or in
part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by voluntary sale, merger,
consolidation or otherwise without prior written consent of the Village
Council, and then only under such conditions as may therein be prescribed.
      (1)   Notice and request for approval of any proposed sale or transfer of
this franchise must be given to the Village Council not later than 90 days
before the proposed sale or transfer. Any such transfer or assignment shall be
made only by an instrument in writing, such as a bill of sale, or similar
document, a duly executed copy of which shall be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk within 30 days after any such transfer or assignment. The said
consent of the Village Council may not be unreasonably refused; provided,
however, the proposed assignee must show financial responsibility as determined
by the Village Council and must agree to comply with all the provisions of the
franchise and of this subchapter; and provided, further, that no such consent
shall be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage or otherwise, in whole or
in part, to secure an indebtedness, except that when such transfer shall exceed
50% of the market value of the property used by the franchisee in the conduct
of the cable television system, prior consent of the Village Council shall be
required for such a transfer. Such a consent shall not be withheld
unreasonably.
      (2)   In the event that the grantee is a corporation, prior approval of
the Village Council, expressed by resolution, shall be required where there is
an actual change in control or where ownership of more than 30% of the voting
stock of the grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in
concert, none of whom already own 30% or more of the voting stock, singly or
collectively.
   (D)   Term of franchise. No franchise granted or renewed by the Village
Council under this subchapter shall be for a term shorter than five years,
unless terminated prior to its expiration as herein provided, nor shall any
such franchise be granted or renewed for a term longer than 15 years. Any
franchise renewal shall be subject to the prior approval of the Village Council
utilizing the same procedures as prescribed herein for the granting of a new
franchise.
   (E)   Review of franchise. Every five years after the effective date of the
franchise the Council and the grantee shall jointly review the performance of
the grantee’s operation and specifically the Village Council will inquire
whether the grantee is supplying a level and variety of services equivalent to
those being generally offered at the time in the industry, in comparable market
situations. In the event that the grantee desires to change or modify its
obligations under its franchise, it may negotiate with the Village Council to
do so at that time. Within 60 days of the conclusion of the review the Village
Council and the grantee shall report in public proceeding the result of their
review and their conclusions. The Village Council may then order unilateral
changes in the franchise rights and obligations of the grantee where said
changes cause no economic impact. Any changes that cause substantial adverse
economic impact shall be the subject of negotiations with the grantee. Any
disputes hereunder shall be resolved by arbitrators, one selected by each party
and the third selected by the other two, whose decision shall be final. The
arbitrators are to base their decision on what is fair and equitable to all
concerned.
   (F)   Recourse against village. The grantee shall have no recourse or remedy
whatsoever against the village for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising
out of or with respect to any franchise hereunder, or this subchapter, or the
enforcement thereof.
   (G)   Village rules and regulations. The grantee shall be subject to all
ordinances, rules, regulations and specifications of the village heretofore or
hereafter established including but not limited to, those pertaining to works
and activities, in, on, over, under and about streets.
   (H)   Prohibited activities of the grantee. The grantee shall be prohibited
from directly or indirectly doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in the business of selling at retail, leasing, renting,
repairing or servicing of television sets or radios;
      (2)   Soliciting, referring or causing or permitting the solicitation or
referral of any subscriber to persons engaged in any business herein prohibited
to be engaged in by the grantee;
      (3)   Providing information concerning the viewing patterns of
identifiable individual subscribers to any person, group or organization for
any purpose, without the consent of the subscriber;
      (4)   Entering or encroaching upon or interfering with or obstructing any
private property without the express consent of the owner; and
      (5)   Providing any repair service to its subscribers for a fee, which
repair extends beyond the connection of its service or the determination by the
grantee of the quality of its signals to the recipients thereof.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.12 REGULATION OF RATES AND SERVICE.
   At the time of the granting of any franchise hereunder, the Village Council
shall approve and include therein all rates and charges allowable to the
grantee, including, but not limited to, all such rates and charges for
installation of equipment, service charges for all classifications of service
including additional connections at one location and any other rates and
charges of the grantee to subscribers. No such rates or charges shall be
changed at any time after the granting of a franchise, except by authority of
the Village Council, and upon written request by the grantee, provided, that
prior to authorizing the change of any rates or charges of the grantee to
subscribers, at any time after the granting of such franchise, the Village
Council shall first pass its resolution of intention to do so, describing and
stating any rates or charges to be changed, the reasons of the Village Council
therefor, fixing a day, hour and place certain when and where any persons
having an interest therein may appear before the Village Council and be heard
and directing the Village Clerk to publish notice of such hearing at least
once. The Village Clerk shall cause such notice to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation within the village, and the same shall be published and
a copy thereof shall be mailed to any grantee hereunder at least ten days prior
to the date specified for hearing thereon. At the time set for such hearing, or
at any adjournment thereof, the Village Council shall proceed to hear and pass
on all presentations made before it, and the decision of the Village Council
thereon shall be final and conclusive. If the Village Council shall find that a
change of rates or charges is justified by a change in cost of operation, the
Village Council shall approve the change in rates.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.13 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall at all reasonable times, and to the extent necessary
to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, permit any duly authorized
agent or representative of the village to examine all franchise property of the
grantee, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within
or without the village, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and
other records kept or maintained by the grantee or under the control or
direction or at the request of the grantee which appertain to the franchise
operations, affairs, transactions or property of the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the Committee, at such times
and in such form as prescribed by the Committee, references and materials with
respect to the operations, affairs, transactions or property of the grantee as
may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the
duties of the Committee.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.14 DEFAULT.
   Failure, refusal, or neglect by the grantee to comply with any requirement
herein, or any term or condition of a franchise issued hereunder shall be
sufficient cause for termination of any franchise by the village as follows.
   (A)   Upon the continuing of any such failure, refusal or neglect for a
period of ten days, next following written demand by the Committee that the
grantee do or comply with any such requirement, limitation, term or condition,
the Committee may cause to be placed on the agenda of a regular session of the
Village Council its request for termination of such franchise, and in such
case, the Committee shall cause to be served upon such grantee, at least 15
days prior to the date of such session of the Village Council, a written notice
of its intent to request such termination at the time and place of such
session.
   (B)   At such session of the Village Council, or any adjournment thereof,
the Village Council shall consider the request of the Committee and shall hear
any persons desiring to be heard, and shall determine whether or not such
failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just cause.
   (C)   If the Village Council shall determine such failure, refusal or
neglect by the grantee was without just cause, then the Village Council may
pass its resolution declaring that the franchise of such grantee shall be
terminated and forfeited unless there is compliance by the grantee within 15
days, and such resolution shall operate to declare such franchise terminated
and forfeited on the fifteenth day next following the passage thereof, and
without further notice to the grantee, unless the grantee shall so comply
within such 15-day period, such termination and forfeiture to become effective
for all purposes 180 days thereafter.
   (D)   Within 180 days after such declaration of termination and forfeiture,
the grantee may sell, remove, or transfer the entire system of the grantee,
subject to the provisions of §
113.11(C) of this subchapter and upon any such sale or transfer in addition to
any other rights hereunder or otherwise, the village shall have a lien (next in
order of preference to any liens or encumbrances existing of record on the date
of such termination and forfeiture) against any and all proceeds thereof in the
full amount of any loss, cost, expense or other financial detriment incurred by
the village in the exercise of any right hereunder, or by reason of such
termination and forfeiture.
   (E)   If the grantee shall fail to or refuse to sell, remove or transfer the
entire system of the grantee, as hereinabove provided, and regardless of the
exercise of any other right of the village hereunder, then the village may
institute appropriate court action to enforce requirements of this section.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
**** RATE REGULATION ****
§ 113.25 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Cable Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., as amended (and specifically as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385), and as may be
amended from time to time.
      ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE. “Basic service” as defined in the FCC Rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
village pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
      INCREASE IN RATES. An INCREASE IN RATES or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in this subchapter shall have the
same meaning as defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.26 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
   (B)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the village. This subchapter shall be implemented
and interpreted consistent with the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.27 RATE REGULATION PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the village shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.28 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates, or its proposed increase in rates, complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the Village Clerk. For purposes of this subchapter, the
filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least
ten copies have been received by the Village Clerk. The Village Council may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the village pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the Village President in connection with the
village’s review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The Village
President may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information
and the cable operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.29 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this subchapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the village
pursuant to §
113.28(A) or any request for information pursuant to §
113.28(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly
proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request that
specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and
withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the village
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552. The village shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that
results in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied:
      (1)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or
      (2)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of the
denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the village. The village shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or
condition a request. The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review
of the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will
be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.30 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
113.28(A), the Village Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Village Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Village Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice
is published.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time and place of the meeting at which the Village Council shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be mailed by
first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition, if a
written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the Village Council, then the Village
Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first class mail to the cable operator
at least three days before the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.31 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
113.28(A) unless the Village Council (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30 days’ deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing
a brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date
of filing. The Village Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional
90 days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional
150 days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.32 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING 30-DAY
DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
113.31 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the village any additional
information required or requested pursuant to §
113.28. In addition, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Village Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.33 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Village President shall cause a report to
be prepared for the Village Council which shall (based on the filing of the
cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the Village Council pursuant to §
113.34. The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator
by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Village Council acts under
§
113.34. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Village Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator, the Village Clerk shall forward it to the Village Council.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.34 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Village Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the Village Council issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days of the tolling order under §
113.31 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
113.31 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.35 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The Village Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the Village Council orders any refund to subscribers,
the Village Clerk shall give at least seven days’ written notice to the cable
operator by first-class mail of the date, time and place at which the Village
Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
Village Council.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.36 WRITTEN DECISION; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Village Council pursuant to §
113.34 or §
113.35 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Village
Council and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written
order in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.37 ADDITIONAL RULES ADOPTED BY COUNCIL.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
113.28, the Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.38 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Village Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this subchapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the Village Council.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.39 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, the Village Council may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the Village
Council, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.40 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The village shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules and this subchapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise. The village may take any
action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public
interest in connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.41 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The village may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s franchise with the village) for failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
this subchapter, any requirements of this subchapter or any rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply
with the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village
pursuant to this subchapter, any requirements of this subchapter or any rules
and regulations promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for
revocation or denial of renewal of a cable operator’s franchise.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.42 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and the provisions of
any prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other
agreement with a cable operator, then the provisions of this subchapter shall
control.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
CHAPTER 114: SECOND HAND DEALERS, JUNK SHOPS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required; persons prohibited from receiving license
   
114.03   Fees; expiration of license
   
114.04   Metal tag to be kept by licensee
   
114.05   Business to be conducted inside building; fences or gates
   
114.06   Dealing in second hand articles
   
114.07   Sales of second hand bedding and clothing
   
114.08   Business hours
   
114.09   Sign; records
   
114.10   Articles to be held for certain time; description of articles to be
provided to Village Clerk
   
114.11   Purchases from certain persons prohibited
   
114.12   Maintenance of premises
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. A person engaged in the business of collecting, receiving or
purchasing second hand property or junk.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for re-use, re-sale,
reduction or similar disposition, or which is possessed, transported, owned,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted for any of the aforesaid
purposes. Without limiting the aforesaid definition of JUNK, the term shall
include used or salvaged iron, brass, lead, copper and other base metal or
metals and their compounds or combinations; used or salvaged ropes, bags,
paper, rags, glass, rubber and similar articles or property, and used motor
vehicles which are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person who engages in the business of buying, exchanging,
collecting, receiving, storing or selling any article or articles hereinabove
defined as “junk.”
   JUNK YARD or JUNK SHOP. Any place at which a junk dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores, accumulates, sells or otherwise handles junk.
   MOTOR VEHICLE DISMANTLING ESTABLISHMENT OR YARD. Any place at which motor
vehicles are dismantled for purposes of taking the parts thereof for re-use or
re-sale or destroying or salvaging same, and/or any place where motor vehicles
are stored or accumulated for the purposes of dismantling same.
   PERSON. Firm, corporation or individual PERSON.
   SECOND HAND DEALER. Any person who engages in the business of buying,
exchanging, collecting, receiving, storing or selling any property defined in
this section as “second hand property.”
   SECOND HAND PROPERTY. Any used household furniture, used wearing apparel,
used lumber, used brick, used tile, used plumbing fixtures, used electrical
fixtures, used articles made of precious metal or metals, used jewelry, used
tools, used motor vehicles or parts thereof and any other used articles or
personal property bought and sold by and from other than the original purchaser
and user.
   SECOND HAND STORE. Any place at which a second hand dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores or sells second hand property.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM RECEIVING LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate a second hand store or junk shop
or junk yard or motor vehicle dismantling establishment, without first
obtaining a license therefor. Application for such license shall be made to the
Village Clerk upon blanks to be provided. The applicant shall state his or her
name, whether a person, firm or corporation, the place or places at which such
business is to be or is conducted or maintained and the applicant’s residence
for a period of three years preceding such application. The applications so
received by the Village Clerk shall be referred to the Village President and by
him or her to the Village Marshal, for purposes of investigation and
recommendation by such.
   (B)   After receipt of such recommendations, the application shall be
submitted to the Village Council. The sole power to grant licenses hereunder is
vested in said Village Council. Licenses granted by said Village Council shall
be issued by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Any applicant seeking to establish a second hand store or junk shop or
junk yard or motor vehicles dismantling establishment, in a location not
previously used for that purpose, or any licensee seeking to move or establish
same in a location not previously used for that purpose, must first obtain the
consent in writing of 65% of the owners of residential property within 300
yards of any part of the area in which the proposed business is to be
conducted. Said area shall include any portion to be used for the storage of
any property in connection with such proposed business.
   (D)   No second hand store, junk shop, junk yard or motor vehicle
dismantling yard or any part thereof, shall be hereafter established or located
in any residential zone in the village nor shall same be hereafter established
or located within 300 feet from any public street or highway in the village,
nor shall same be hereafter established or located within 300 feet from any
inhabited building or dwelling, nor shall same be hereafter established or
located within 300 feet from any adjoining private property line.
   (E)   No person known to be a thief or an associate of thieves, an habitual
drunkard, a receiver of stolen property or incapable of keeping the records and
making the reports herein provided for shall be deemed to be a suitable person
to receive a license as second hand dealer or junk dealer, and any person to
whom a license as may have been granted, may have his or her license revoked by
the Village Council on good cause shown and after reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard before such Village Council or committee thereof.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.03 FEES; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following fees shall be paid:
      (1)   For each person, corporation, co-partnership or firm engaged in or
carrying on the business in the village of second hand dealer or junk dealer as
defined in §
114.01, having a yard for the storage of second hand property and/or junk, the
sum of $25 per annum; provided, that a separate license must be taken out for
each yard so used for the storage of second hand property and/or junk;
      (2)   For each person, corporation, co-partnership or firm engaged in or
carrying on the business in the village of second hand dealer or junk dealer as
hereinbefore defined, having a store room or building for the storage of second
hand property and/or junk, the sum of $25 per annum; provided, that a separate
license must be taken out for each separate location so used for the storage of
second hand property and/or junk; and
      (3)   For each collector in the village, as defined in §
114.01, the sum of $5 per annum.
   (B)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on March 1 of each year.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 METAL TAG TO BE KEPT BY LICENSEE.
   Each collector licensed hereunder shall receive from the Village Clerk a
metal tag not exceeding six inches in diameter bearing the type of license and
the license number. Said tag shall be kept by such collector on his or her
person or vehicle when engaged in the business of collecting second hand
property or junk as defined in §
114.01, and said tag must be produced at the request of any police officer or
private person.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.05 BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED INSIDE BUILDING; FENCES OR GATES.
   (A)   No person shall maintain a junk yard or junk shop within the village
unless such business is carried on entirely inside a building or buildings, or
unless the premises on which such business is conducted is entirely closed in,
except for gates, by a solid or closed board fence not less than six feet in
height. If painted, said fence shall be painted one solid color, and said fence
shall be maintained in good solid and sightly condition at all times.
   (B)   Gates for access to said premises shall swing inward and such gate
shall be closed when the premises are not open for business, and such gates
shall be of solid board construction not less than six feet high and match the
fence.
   (C)   Barbed wire may be installed on the tops of such fences on arms or
supports projecting over the private property side of the fence at least eight
feet above the adjacent grade.
   (D)   For a distance of at least 30 feet from the exterior of all buildings
and/or fences enclosing or housing such junk yard or junk shop or motor vehicle
dismantling yard, no grass, weeds, shrubbery or undergrowth shall be allowed to
grow to a height exceeding one foot.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 DEALING IN SECOND HAND ARTICLES.
   Any person, corporation, member or members of a co-partnership or firm whose
business in whole or in part is that of purchasing, selling, exchanging or
receiving second hand articles of any kind, is hereby declared to be a second
hand dealer or junk dealer. This definition shall not apply to retail merchants
who repossess their own merchandise sold on a title-retaining contract or
chattle mortgage basis.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.07 SALES OF SECOND HAND BEDDING AND CLOTHING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any second hand dealer or junk dealer to sell
or deliver or cause to be sold or delivered any bed mattress which is stained
or discolored, or the contents of which are musty, or to sell or deliver any
second hand clothing or bedding until the same has been thoroughly cleaned and
disinfected, or to sell or deliver any second hand linen until the same has
been laundered.
   (B)   The foregoing provisions shall apply only when such articles are sold
or delivered for consumption or use or re-sold at retail, and that such
provisions are inapplicable when such articles are to be sold or delivered for
re-processing.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 BUSINESS HOURS.
   No person shall purchase any junk, as defined in §
114.01, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. nor on any Sunday.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 SIGN; RECORDS.
   Such second hand dealer or junk dealer as defined in §
114.01, shall post in a conspicuous place in or upon his or her shop, store,
wagon, vehicle, barn or other place of business, a sign having his or her name
and occupation legibly inscribed thereon, and shall keep a separate book, open
to inspection by members of the state police force, County Sheriff’s office and
other public officers, in which shall be written in the English language at the
time of the purchase or exchange of such article a description thereof, the
name, description and residence of the person from whom the same was purchased
and received and the day and hour when such purchase or exchange was made. Each
entry shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with number one.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 ARTICLES TO BE HELD FOR CERTAIN TIME; DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLES TO BE
PROVIDED TO VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Such articles purchased or exchanged, as provided herein, shall be
retained by the purchaser thereof for not less than eight days before disposing
of them, in an accessible place in the building where such articles are
purchased and received. A tag shall be attached to such article in some visible
and conspicuous place with a number written thereon to correspond with entry
number in such book. Such purchaser shall prepare and deliver on Monday of each
week to the Village Clerk, before 12:00 noon, a legible and correct copy,
written in the English language, from such book, containing a description of
each article purchased or received during the preceding week, the hour and day
when the purchase was made and the description of the person from whom it was
purchased. Such statement shall be verified by the affidavit of the person
subscribing his or her name thereto.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to iron, steel, old rags or waste paper.
Provided further, nothing herein contained shall make it necessary for the
purchaser to retain articles purchased from individuals, firms or corporations
having a fixed place of business in the village or elsewhere after such
articles shall have been reported to the Village Clerk as herein provided.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 PURCHASES FROM CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No purchase or receipt of any articles shall be made from any person who is
at the time intoxicated or from any habitual drunkard or from any person known
by said junk dealer to be a thief or an associate of thieves or a receiver of
stolen property, or from any person whom he or she has reason to suspect or
from any minor under the age of 21 years without the consent of the parents of
such minor.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   All premises used as a junk yard or junk shop shall be kept and maintained
in a clean, sanitary and neat condition. The person operating a junk yard or
junk shop shall maintain the premises so used so that rats, vermin and fire
hazard are as far as practicable reduced to a minimum. No rubbish or portion or
parts of wrecked machines and other accumulations which are to be discarded by
such junk dealer shall be burned in such premises without the written consent
of the Village Marshal.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not exceeding $100, nor less than $10, or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court trying the offender.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
CHAPTER 115: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Registration
   
115.04   Rental requirements
   
115.05   Inspections
   
115.06   Safety equipment
 
   
115.99   Violation; revocation of permit
Cross-reference:
   Rental of dwelling units, see
Chapter 152
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village recognizes that one of our largest industries is tourism.
The tourism market supports many different types of businesses including the
hospitality market, the restaurant/dining market, the shopping and retail
market as well as a host of others. The village believes that the tourism
industry will continue to grow.
   (B)   The village recognizes that a major part of the tourism industry is
the short-term rental or vacation rental marketplace. The short-term or
vacation rental marketplace within the village has grown exponentially in the
past five, ten, 15 and even 20 years and it will most likely continue to grow
as surrounding municipalities limit, restrict and eliminate the practice.
   (C)   The village needs to take action to ensure that the operation of
short-term rentals is done in a safe and controllable manner for the well-being
of all in the community. The intent of these regulations is not to restrict or
eliminate short-term rentals; rather the intent is to have safeguards in place
to protect the consumer as well as the property owner, surrounding neighbors
and emergency responders.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual designated to oversee the short-term rental of a
rental unit in accordance with this chapter and to respond to calls from
renters, concerned citizens, and representatives of the village. The local
agent must live or maintain a physical place of business within 45 miles of the
rental unit used for short-term rentals. A property owner who meets these
criteria may be the local agent.
   OWNER. Shall mean the individual or entity who is the legal or equitable
titleholder and/or who controls the premises occupied by one or more rental
units.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any residential dwelling which is in whole or in part occupied
by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or written agreement for monetary
or any other consideration, but which persons are not acquiring an ownership
interest in the dwelling. This shall include single family, two- family and
multiple-family dwellings, short-term rentals and rooming or boarding houses. A
RENTAL UNIT shall not include transient dwelling structures such as bed and
breakfasts, and shall not include dwellings that are occupied only by members
of the owner’s immediate family.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Shall mean the rental of any rental unit for a term of
less than one month, but does not include the use of transitional housing
operated by a nonprofit entity, group homes such as nursing homes and adult
foster care homes, hospitals, or housing provided by a substance abuse
rehabilitation clinic, mental health facility, or other health care related
clinic. Housing units owned by a business entity and made available on a
temporary basis to employees of that business entity or employees of a
contractor working for that business entity are not short-term rental units.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT PERMIT. A written document issued by the village
indicating that the rental unit identified thereon is then in compliance with
the housing and property maintenance code. A short-term rental unit permit
shall be valid for one year from the date of the inspection that found the
rental unit in compliance, absent newly or later detected violations of the
housing and property maintenance code, this chapter or other applicable laws,
rules or regulations, or a revocation of the permit pursuant to this chapter
within that time, and the expiration date shall be shown on the permit. A
permit shall be valid for one year from date of issuance unless terminated due
to a violation and shall be renewed annually.
   TENANT. Shall mean any person, other than a legal or equitable titleholder,
occupying or possessing all or any part of a rental unit.
   VILLAGE. Shall mean the department, officer or individual designated by the
Village Manager or Village Council to administer all or any part of the
registration and inspection programs under this chapter.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of a short-term rental unit shall register it with the
village within ten days after the date of acquiring ownership or control of a
previously registered short-term rental unit, or in the case of a newly
constructed or converted short-term rental unit, before that short-term rental
unit is occupied.
   (B)   To register a short-term rental unit, the owner shall:
      (1)   Truthfully provide and certify as true the following information on
a form provided by the village:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone numbers of the owner and any agent
for the owner;
         (b)   The street address of the short-term rental unit, along with
other identification if more than one short-term rental unit has the same
street address;
         (c)   The number of short-term rental units in the building, if more
than one;
         (d)   The number of bedrooms in each short-term rental unit, and the
intended number of occupants in each short-term rental unit;
         (e)   A scaled floor plan;
         (f)   A copy of the lease form containing the required disclosures
including, but not limited to, the maximum occupancy load, off-street parking
requirements, the local landline telephone number of the unit, noise
regulations and other ordinance requirements;
         (g)   A statement in the application form detailing:
            1.   The term of the rental (daily, weekend, weekly, etc.);
            2.   The name, address, telephone number(s) (local and cell phone),
electronic mail address and other contact information of the designated local
rental agent, and written authorization for that agent to act on the owner's
behalf, including, without limitation, acceptance of service of legal papers on
the owner's behalf, and the agent's written acceptance of that agency;
            3.   The maximum occupancy load; and
            4.   Proof that the homestead exemption is legally appropriate or
is not being claimed.
         (h)   A statement certifying that each bedroom has a working smoke
alarm, that there is a working carbon monoxide detector on each floor, and that
the owner or local agent will check those devices at least every 90 days;
         (i)   A statement certifying that each kitchen has a working fire
extinguisher and that a working fire extinguisher is located near each outdoor
cooking device;
         (j)   A statement certifying that the property owner consents to
inspections by the village and will make the dwelling unit available to
inspections upon request; and
         (k)   Such other information as the village requests.
      (2)   Pay an administrative fee, as set by resolution of the Village
Council.
   (C)   An owner shall notify the village in writing within 30 days of any
change in the information provided on the registration form. An owner of a
short-term rental unit shall notify the village in writing within ten days of
any change in the designated local agent.
   (D)   An owner shall notify the village in writing within 30 days if any of
the items inspected pursuant to this chapter are altered after inspection by
the village.
   (E)   No registration under this section will be accepted or processed for a
property if an owner has been issued a civil infraction citation for a
violation of this chapter regarding that property, pending final adjudication
of that citation.
   (F)   No registration under this section will be accepted or processed for a
property located within the R-1 Single Family Residential District pursuant to
the village zoning ordinance if the number of permits issued exceeds or will
exceed 10% of the number of developed parcels in the district.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017; Ord. 228, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 115.04 RENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No short-term rental unit may be occupied or advertised for rent
unless the village has issued a valid short-term rental unit permit pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   A short-term rental unit permit shall be granted only when all of the
requirements in this chapter for short-term rental units and applications for a
short-term rental unit permit are met.
   (C)   Permit contents and requirements.
      (1)   Each short-term rental unit permit shall indicate the maximum
occupancy load. No owner, local agent, or tenant shall allow a rental unit to
be occupied by more tenants than the number stated on the permit. The maximum
occupancy load shall be stated in the lease and other rental documents.
      (2)   No rental unit permit shall be valid until the appropriate fee is
paid, in the amounts as established from time to time by resolution of the
Village Council.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued to any owner unless that owner is current
on the payment of all real property taxes, utility rates, fees, charges,
special assessments and other amounts due the village. Delinquencies on any
such payments to the village, regardless of whether they relate to the rental
unit for which a rental unit permit is sought shall result in denial of the
permit.
   (D)   Upon request by any tenant or prospective tenant, the owner or agent
shall provide the tenant or prospective tenant with a copy of the short-term
rental unit permit, as well as a copy of the lease containing the required
disclosures.
   (E)   A valid short-term rental unit permit may be transferred to a new
owner of a short-term rental unit upon the village’s prior written consent once
the new owner files an application meeting all the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   Compliance with applicable zoning, construction, building and property
maintenance codes shall be a condition of all rental unit permits. Violations
of any of those codes shall also be a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   If the owner of a short-term rental unit does not qualify as a local
agent, the owner shall designate a local agent and authorize the agent in
writing to act as the owner’s agent for any acts required of the owner or the
owner’s agent under this chapter.
   (H)   Each short-term rental unit shall have a landline telephone with free
local calls, which will appear at the 911 dispatch center. The owner of each
short-term rental unit must prominently display in the unit a notice indicating
the unit’s street address, municipality, and other such descriptive information
which, if relayed to the 911 dispatch center, would allow emergency responders
to quickly locate and enter the rental unit, and further recommending that
tenants who use communication devices that may be used to summon aid in an
emergency, register those devices to the rental unit’s location, if
appropriate.
   (I)   Each short-term rental unit must have a minimum of one off-street
parking space for each occupant’s vehicle in addition to any other spaces
required under applicable laws, rules and regulations for any other uses in the
building or on the premises.
   (J)   The owner of each short-term rental unit must prominently display a
full-sized copy of the short-term rental unit permit in each short-term rental
unit.
   (K)   No more than four occupants per bedroom shall be included in the
calculation of the maximum occupancy load of a short-term rental unit,
regardless of the size of the bedroom.
   (L)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall not advertise an
occupancy load that is greater than the maximum occupancy load limit.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before issuing a short-term rental unit permit, the village shall
inspect the short-term rental unit in order to determine whether it is in
compliance with the housing and property maintenance code, the fire code, this
chapter, and other applicable laws and regulations. The owner shall pay
administrative fees as set by resolution of the Village Council.
   (B)   Upon written notice from the village, it shall be the owner’s
responsibility to schedule and allow the village’s inspection of the short-term
rental unit. When an inspection is required for the renewal of an existing
permit, the owner shall schedule and permit that inspection no later than 30
days before the expiration of that permit. Inspections shall occur during the
village’s regular business hours, unless the village agrees to other
arrangements, and all fees shall be paid prior to the inspection.
   (C)   If an inspection reveals that the short-term rental unit is not in
compliance with the housing and property maintenance code, the owner shall be
provided a written list of deficiencies or violations that must be corrected
before a permit is issued.
   (D)   The village may conduct additional inspections as it deems necessary,
upon reasonable notice to the owner or agent, such as:
      (1)   When a complaint is filed with the village; or
      (2)   The village otherwise has reasonable cause to believe a rental unit
is in violation of any village ordinance.
   (E)   For short-term rental units, between each short-term rental to a
different tenant, the local rental agent shall inspect the premises using a
village designated checklist and shall ensure that all smoke detectors, carbon
monoxide detectors, lights in common areas and stairways, egress doors, and
railings are in a safe and working condition; any defects discovered shall be
corrected promptly. Upon inspection, the agent shall sign and date that
checklist and shall maintain it for village inspection and copying for a period
of at least two years.
   (F)   If the village becomes aware of code or other deficiencies or
violations subsequent to the issuance of a permit, the village may revoke the
current permit and may also take any other action allowed by law.
   (G)   Before renewing a short-term rental unit permit, the village shall
inspect the short-term rental unit in order to determine whether it remains in
compliance with the housing and property maintenance code, the fire code, this
chapter, and other applicable laws and regulations. The owner shall pay
administrative fees as set by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.06 SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall be responsible for the
installation of smoke detectors/alarms in each rental unit. All smoke
detectors/alarms shall be UL (Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.) approved, and
shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the Michigan
Residential Code and the household fire warning equipment provisions of the
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards § 72.
   (B)   Smoke detectors/alarms shall be installed in the following locations:
      (1)   In each sleeping room;
      (2)   Outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of
the bedrooms; and
      (3)   On each additional story of the rental unit, including basements
and cellars, but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In rental
units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent
levels, a smoke detector/alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level, provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
   (C)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall be responsible for the
installation of a carbon monoxide detector in each rental unit. All carbon
monoxide detectors shall be of the type described in M.C.L.A. § 125.1504d.
   (D)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall be responsible for the
installation of a fire extinguisher in the kitchen of each unit and near each
outdoor cooking device.
   (E)   No person shall tamper or interfere with the effectiveness of a smoke
detector, carbon monoxide detector or fire extinguisher required by this
section.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 VIOLATION; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Violations as municipal civil infractions. Any person who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 or more
than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses
shall be subject to an increased civil fine as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
this chapter:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any three month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
   (B)   Revocation of registration.
      (1)   Offenses warranting revocation. The village may revoke the short-
term rental permit for any short-term rental which is the site of at least
three separate incidents (occurring on three separate days) within a calendar
year resulting in a plea of responsibility (with or without an explanation), a
plea of guilty, a plea of no contest, or a court's determination of
responsibility or guilt by the owner, local agent, or any renter for a
violation of one or more of the following:
         (a)   Any provision of this chapter;
         (b)   The village noise and nuisance ordinance;
         (c)   Any violation of the zoning ordinance or any permit or approval
issued pursuant to the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Revocation procedure. Upon a determination by the village that the
short-term rental permit is subject to revocation pursuant to division (B)(1),
the village shall issue a notice to the property owner and the local agent
stating that the village intends to revoke the short-term rental permit. The
notice shall inform the owner and local agent of a right to a hearing to show
cause as to why the short-term rental permit should not be revoked, if a
hearing is requested within 14 days of the service of the notice. If a hearing
is timely requested, the village shall schedule the hearing before the Village
Manager and notify the owner and local agent in writing of a time and place for
that hearing. At the hearing, the owner and local agent may present evidence
that the requirements for revocation provided in division (B)(1) are not
satisfied, or that the property owner and local agent should not be held
responsible for one or more of the three requisite violations due to
extenuating circumstances. Extenuating circumstances may include circumstances
such as:
         (a)   The violation was committed by a non-renter and the renter(s)
attempted to prevent or halt the violation;
         (b)   The violation resulted from an act of God; or
         (c)   Other circumstances that the owner or the owner's agent could
not reasonably anticipate and prevent, and could not reasonably control.
      (3)   Revocation period and effect. Upon revocation of registration, a
dwelling unit cannot be re-registered for a period of one year, and cannot be
used for short-term rentals until re-registered.
   (C)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017; Ord. 215, passed 12-12-2018)
CHAPTER 116: MEDICAL AND ADULT-USE MARIHUANA
Section
   
116.01   Title
   
116.02   Purpose
   
116.03   Definitions
   
116.04   Authorization and fee
   
116.05   Municipal license application requirements and procedure
   
116.06   Minimum operational standards for all marihuana businesses within the
village
   
116.07   Denial and revocation
   
116.08   License renewal
   
116.09   Unlawful practices
   
116.10   Applicability
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village Regulation of
Medical and Adult Use Marihuana Ordinance.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult use marihuana
establishments, which include marihuana growers, marihuana safety compliance
facilities, marihuana processors, marihuana microbusinesses, marihuana
retailers, marihuana secure transporters, and medical marihuana facilities,
which include marihuana growers, marihuana safety compliance facilities,
marihuana processors, marihuana provisioning centers, and marihuana secure
transporters. The village finds that these activities are significantly
connected to the public health, safety, security, and welfare of its citizens
and it is therefore necessary to regulate and enforce safety, security, fire,
policing, health, and sanitation practices related to such activities and also
to provide a method to defray administrative costs incurred by such regulation
and enforcement. It is not the intent of this chapter to diminish, abrogate, or
restrict the protections for recreational marihuana use found in the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Facility Licensing Act ("MMFLA") or the Michigan Regulation
and Taxation of Marihuana Act ("MRTMA").
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Person, entity, or individual seeking a municipal license.
   CONDITIONAL AUTHORIZATION. The Clerk for the village has determined that the
submitted application is complete.
   CONDITIONAL LICENSE. The Village Council has approved the applicant for a
municipal license contingent upon the State of Michigan issuing a license for
operation under state law.
   DEPARTMENT. The Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs or
any successor agency.
   MARIHUANA. As defined in the MRTMA.
   MARIHUANA BUSINESS. Includes a marihuana grower, retailer, microbusiness,
processor, safety compliance facility, and/or secure transporter under the
MRTMA and a grower, provisioning center, processor, safety compliance facility,
and/or secure transporter under the MMFLA.
   MARIHUANA GROWER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to cultivate marihuana
and sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed under the MRTMA to cultivate not
more than 150 marihuana plants; process and package marihuana; and sell or
otherwise transfer marihuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or
to a marihuana safety compliance facility, but not to other marihuana
establishments.
   MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain marihuana
from marihuana establishments; process and package marihuana; and sell or
otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA RETAILER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain marihuana
from marihuana establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to
marihuana establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A person licensed to test marihuana,
including certification for potency and the presence of contaminants.
   MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain
marihuana from marihuana establishments in order to transport marihuana to
marihuana establishments.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA GROWER. A licensee under the MMLFA that is a commercial
entity located in this state that cultivates, dries, trims, or cures and
packages marihuana for sale to a processor, provisioning center, or another
grower.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. A licensee under the MMFLA that is a commercial
entity located in this state that purchases marihuana from a grower and that
extracts resin from the marihuana or creates a marihuana-infused product for
sale and transfer in packaged form to a provisioning center or another
processor.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROVISIONING CENTER. A licensee under the MMFLA that is a
commercial entity located in this state that purchases marihuana from a grower
or processor and sells, supplies, or provides marihuana to registered
qualifying patients, directly or through the patients' registered primary
caregivers. Provisioning center includes any commercial property where
marihuana is sold at retail to registered qualifying patients or registered
primary caregivers.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A licensee under the MMFLA
that is a commercial entity that takes marihuana from a marihuana facility or
receives marihuana from a registered primary caregiver, tests the marihuana for
contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other cannabinoids, returns the
test results, and may return the marihuana to the marihuana facility.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A licensee under the MMFLA that is a
commercial entity located in this state that stores marihuana and transports
marihuana between marihuana facilities for a fee.
   MMFLA. The Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act.
   MUNICIPAL LICENSE. A license issued by the Village Council under Section 6
of the MRTMA or Section 205 of the MMFLA.
   PERSON. An individual, natural person, corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership,
cooperative, association, trust, or any other legal entity.
   STACKED LICENSE. More than one marihuana license issued to a single licensee
to operate as a Class C grower as specified in each license at a marihuana
business under the MMFLA or MRTMA, or both.
   STAKEHOLDER. An applicant as defined under the administrative rules
promulgated by the agency under the authority of the MMFLA, the Marihuana
Tracking Act, the MRTMA, and Executive Reorganization Order No. 2019-2, being
M.C.L.A. § 333.27001.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Three Oaks, a municipal corporation established and
operated pursuant to Michigan law.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.04 AUTHORIZATION AND FEE.
   (A)   The village hereby authorizes, subject to the issuance of a municipal
license by the Village Clerk, the following marihuana businesses within the
boundaries of the village, as are authorized pursuant to Section 6.1 of the
MRTMA.
   (B)   (1)   The marihuana businesses and the number authorized pursuant to
this chapter are:
Type of Business Number Authorized
Type of Business                             Number Authorized
Marihuana retailer                           Unlimited
Class A marihuana microbusiness (300 plants) Unlimited
Marihuana Class A grower (500 plants)        3
Marihuana Class B grower (1,000 plants)      3
Marihuana Class C grower (2,000 plants)      3
Marihuana processor                          2
Marihuana safety compliance facility         1
Marihuana secure transporter                 1
 
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit a MRTMA
marihuana grower, marihuana processor, or marihuana retailer from operating at
a location shared with a MMFLA marihuana grower, marihuana processor, or
marihuana retailer.
   (C)   The issuance of stacked licenses is prohibited.
   (D)   A non-refundable municipal license application fee shall be paid by
each marihuana business applying to be licensed under this chapter in the
amount of $5,000. The municipal license fee is in addition to any other fees
required, including, but not limited to, zoning fees.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.05 MUNICIPAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a marihuana business in the village without a
valid municipal license issued by the village pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall be issued a municipal license by the village without
first having obtained a special land use permit authorizing the operation of
the marihuana business pursuant to the village zoning ordinance.
   (C)   No person who is, or within the preceding 24 months was, employed by
the village, acts as a consultant for the village, or acts as an advisor to the
village, and is involved in the implementation, administration or enforcement
of this chapter shall have an interest, directly or indirectly, in a marihuana
business.
   (D)   Every applicant for a municipal license to operate a marihuana
business shall file an application in the Village Clerk's office upon a form
provided by the village. The application shall include:
      (1)   The appropriate non-refundable municipal license application fee in
the amount determined by the village;
      (2)   If the applicant is an individual: the applicant's name; date of
birth; Social Security number; physical address, including residential and any
business address; copy of government-issued photo identification; email
address; and one or more phone numbers, including emergency contact
information;
      (3)   If the applicant is not an individual: the names; dates of birth;
physical addresses, including residential and any business address; copy of
government-issued photo identifications; email address; and one or more phone
numbers of each stakeholder of the applicant, including designation of the
highest ranking representative as an emergency contact person; contact
information for the emergency contact person; articles of incorporation or
organization; assumed name registration; Internal Revenue Service EIN
confirmation letter; copy of the operating agreement of the applicant, if a
limited liability company; copy of the partnership agreement, if a partnership;
names and addresses of the beneficiaries, if a trust; or a copy of the bylaws
or shareholder agreement, if a corporation;
      (4)   The percentage ownership of each stakeholder;
      (5)   The name and address of the proposed marihuana business;
      (6)   A copy of the special land use permit issued by the Village
Planning Commission;
      (7)   A location area map of the marihuana business and surrounding area
that identifies the relative locations and the distances (closest property line
to the subject marihuana business's building) reflecting the applicant' s
compliance with the separation distance requirements provided under Section
2.412-1, Subsection D;
      (8)   A signed acknowledgment that the applicant is aware and understands
that all matters related to marihuana growing, cultivation, possession,
testing, safety compliance, and transporting are currently subject to state and
federal laws, rules, and regulations, and that the approval or granting of a
license hereunder does not exonerate or exculpate the applicant from abiding by
the provisions and requirements and penalties associated with those laws,
rules, and regulations, or exposure to any penalties associated therewith; and
further, the applicant waives and forever releases any claim, demand, action,
legal redress, or recourse against the village, its elected and appointed
officials, and its employees and agents for any claims, damages, liabilities,
causes of action or attorney fees that the applicant may incur as a result of
the violation by the applicant, its stakeholders and its agents of those laws,
rules, and regulations; and
      (9)   Signed acknowledgments in a form approved by the village verifying
that the applicant and any associated stakeholder(s) are not in default to the
village; verifying that the applicant and any associated stakeholders are
authorized to submit the application; and verifying whether the applicant or
operator has had a business license revoked or suspended, and if revoked or
suspended, then the reason for such revocation or suspension.
      (10)   Any other information which may be required by the Village Clerk.
   (E)   All marihuana business applicants shall file an application for and
obtain a special use permit, in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the village's zoning ordinance. The Planning Commission shall forward its
special use permit decision to the applicant in accordance with the zoning
ordinance and at the same time forward a copy of the special use permit
decision to the Village Clerk.
   (F)   All marihuana business applicants shall comply with the licensing
application process in the following order:
      (1)   Apply for and obtain a special land use approval from the Village
Planning Commission;
      (2)   Upon the date of receipt of written special land use approval,
submit for and obtain a conditional authorization issued by the Village Clerk;
and
      (3)   Receive all required operating licenses and approvals from the
Department.
   (G)   Except for marihuana retailer and microbusiness license applications,
an initial bidding period following the effective date of this chapter shall be
set by the Village Council by resolution. The village shall begin accepting
applications on the first day of the initial bidding period and shall cease
accepting applications at close of business of the last day of the initial
bidding period. Following the close of the initial bidding period, the Village
Council shall review each applicant as they receive conditional authorization.
At any time after the initial bidding period, except for marihuana retailer and
microbusiness license applications, if one or more marihuana business license
opportunities become available for any reason, any applicant for an available
license shall be subject to the application and competitive process and
licensing procedures of this chapter.
   (H)   Upon receipt of an application, including application fee and other
documents required by this chapter, the Village Clerk or other authorized
village official shall review the application within 14 days to determine
whether the application is complete. Complete applications for all types of
marihuana businesses shall receive conditional authorization. Incomplete
applications will be denied. The Village Clerk shall notify the applicant of
the grant or denial of the conditional authorization by first-class mail. In
the event of a denial, the applicant shall have 14 days from the mailing date
of the denial to correct deficiencies. Should the applicant timely correct all
deficiencies, the Village Clerk shall issue a conditional authorization. The
application fee shall be non-refundable.
   (I)   The Village Council shall review conditionally authorized applications
as provided herein to determine whether such applicants will receive a
conditional license.
   (J)   The MRTMA requires that the village establish a competitive process to
select applicants who are best suited to operate in compliance with the MRTMA
and this chapter when the limitations of §
116.04 above prevent the Department from issuing state licenses to applicants
that meet the requirements of Section 9, Subsection 3 of the MRTMA.
   (K)   Accordingly, when the limitations of Section 5 above prevent the
Department from issuing state licenses to applicants that meet the requirements
of Section 9, Subsection 3 of the MRTMA, then the Village Council shall issue a
conditional license to applicants that demonstrate best suitability to operate
in compliance with the MRTMA in the village. Compliance with the MRTMA in the
village is assessed by consideration of the following factors:
      (1)   Whether the applicant or any stakeholder demonstrates commitment to
or investment in the village that is not purely financial;
      (2)   The applicant's experience in operating other similarly licensed
marihuana business(es) in Michigan or other states that license the same type
of marihuana business as the applicant is applying for;
      (3)   The applicant's general business management experience;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any stakeholder has a history of non-
compliance with any regulatory requirements in any other jurisdiction;
      (5)   How the proposed business will mitigate impacts of the operation on
village services and resources, including without limitation: impacts on the
village economy; impacts on local services, public infrastructure, and public
utilities; and impacts on parking and traffic;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated the ability to execute and
finance the proposed marihuana business; and
      (7)   The quality of the employee training and education.
      (8)   None of the above factors shall be applicable to any decision to
issue a conditional license to an applicant for a marihuana retailer or
microbusiness business license.
   (L)   When the limitations of §
116.04 above do not prevent the Department from issuing state licenses to
applicants that meet the requirements of Section 9, Subsection 3 of the MRTMA,
as amended, then the Village Council shall issue a conditional license to an
applicant if the applicant has satisfactorily met all requirements of §
116.04(D).
   (M)   The Village Council shall review all conditionally authorized
applications at a public meeting and the Village Council may require the
applicant and one or more stakeholder(s) to be present at the public meeting.
   (N)   All conditional licenses issued are contingent upon the State of
Michigan issuing a license for operation under state law.
   (O)   Within 30 days from the applicant submitting proof of obtaining a
state operating license and completing all other required permits and approvals
required by the village, the village shall issue a municipal license.
   (P)   If a conditionally licensed applicant fails to obtain a municipal
license from the village within one year from the date of the conditional
license, then such conditional license shall be canceled by the Village Manager
unless the Village Manager extends such conditional license for good cause
shown, where good cause means a reasonable excuse not solely based on the delay
of the applicant.
   (Q)   Should the village grant a municipal license, the application fee
shall be considered as the fee imposed for the first year the municipal license
was issued.
   (R)   Any marihuana license granted under this chapter or Ordinances 219 or
221 not be assigned or transferred in any manner by any applicant or marihuana
business to any other person or marihuana business. The prohibition against
assignment or transfer shall include, but not be limited to, transfer or
assignment by contract, subcontract, sale, merger, liquidation, bankruptcy,
receivership, lien, security interest, lease or sublease, or by operation of
law or otherwise.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.06 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS FOR ALL MARIHUANA BUSINESSES WITHIN THE
VILLAGE.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to all marihuana business within
the village:
   (A)   Marihuana business shall comply at all times and in all circumstances
with the MRTMA, applicable Michigan law, and the general rules of the
Department, as they may be amended from time to time. It is the responsibility
of the owner to be aware of changes in the MRTMA. The village bears no
responsibility for failure of the owner to be aware of changes in the MRTMA;
   (B)   Consumption and/or use of marihuana shall be prohibited at the
marihuana business.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.07 DENIAL AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   A municipal license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Council at a public meeting at which it is determined that grounds for
revocation under this chapter exist. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing and the grounds for revocation must be given to the holder of a
municipal license at least five days prior to the date of the hearing by first-
class mail to the address given on the license application. A licensee whose
license is the subject of such hearing may present evidence and/or call
witnesses at the hearing.
   (B)   A municipal license applied for or issued under this chapter may be
denied or revoked on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter or any other applicable village
ordinance;
      (2)   Any conviction of delivery of a controlled substance to a minor;
      (3)   Village finding of fraud, misrepresentation or the making of a
false statement by the applicant or any stakeholder of the applicant while
engaging in any activity for which this chapter requires a municipal license or
in connection with the application for a municipal license or request to renew
a municipal license;
      (4)   Sufficient evidence that the licensee lacks, or has failed to
demonstrate, the requisite professionalism and/or business experience required
to assure strict adherence to this chapter, and the rules and regulations
governing the MRTMA;
      (5)   The license holder or any of its stakeholders is in default to the
village personally or in connection with any business in which they hold an
ownership interest for failure to pay property taxes, special assessments,
fines, fees or any other financial obligation;
      (6)   The marihuana business is determined by the village to have become
a public nuisance; or
      (7)   The Department has denied, revoked or suspended the applicant's
state operating license.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.08 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A municipal license shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance, unless revoked as provided by law, including this chapter.
   (B)   A valid municipal license may be renewed on an annual basis by
submitting a renewal application upon a form provided by the village and
payment of the annual license fee. Applications to renew a municipal license
shall be filed with the Village Clerk at least 30 days prior to the date of its
expiration. As long as no changes to the municipal licensee have occurred,
there is no pending request to revoke or suspend a municipal license, and the
municipal licensee has paid the license renewal fee, the Village Clerk shall
renew the license.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.09 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Any act which is a violation of M.C.L.A. § 333.27954, or any amendment
thereto, shall also be considered a violation of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful to consume marihuana in a public place in the village, except in a
location as may be designated by MRTMA or the Village Council for consumption
and only when not accessible to persons under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.10 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, including if the operations or activities
associated with a marihuana business were established without authorization
before the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the payment of a
civil fine of $500, plus costs, except that a violation of §
116.08 by consuming marihuana in a public place is a civil infraction and
subject to the payment of a civil fine of up to $100. Each day a violation of
this chapter continues to exist constitutes a separate violation. A violator of
this chapter shall also be subject to such additional sanctions, remedies and
judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law or this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se. In
addition to any other remedy available at law, the village may bring an action
for an injunction or other process against a licensee to restrain, prevent, or
abate any violation of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter may be enforced and administered by the Village Clerk,
any Village Police Officer, Village Manager, or such other village official as
may be designated from time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 235, passed 2-28-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Definitions
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.15   Public nudity
   
130.16   Obstruction of public place
   
130.17   Littering
   
130.18   Creating nuisance by use of noise producing device
   
130.19   Occupying motor vehicle with open container of alcohol
   
130.20   Drinking alcoholic beverages in public places; public intoxication
   
130.21   Disturbing the peace
   
130.22   Assault and battery
   
130.23   Disturbance of religious or other lawful assemblage
   
130.24   Public use of profane language
Offenses Involving Minors
   
130.35   Curfew for minors
   
130.36   Furnishing minors with alcohol; minors possessing alcohol
   
130.37   Parental responsibilities as to minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business, see §
110.41
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any park, alley, street, sidewalk or parking lot to which the
public, or any number of persons of the public has access to, or to which the
public is customarily invited or admitted.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Three Oaks, Berrien County, Michigan.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976)
**** OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY ****
§ 130.15 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Public nudity. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or engage
in any public nudity.
   (B)   Definition. As used in this section, PUBLIC NUDITY means knowingly or
intentionally displaying in a public place, or for payment or promise of
payment by any person including, but not limited to, payment or promise of
payment of an admission fee, any individual’s genitals or anus with less than a
full opaque covering, or a female individual’s breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of the nipple and areola. PUBLIC NUDITY shall not include any
of the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
      (2)   MATERIAL as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362; or
      (3)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT VISUAL MATERIAL as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, § 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   (C)   Other remedies. The remedies and penalties provided in §
130.99 are in addition to all other rights and powers of the village to proceed
at law or equity with other and additional appropriate remedies.
(Ord. 140, passed 6-13-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person, after having been first requested or ordered by a law enforcement
officer or any other person in charge of a public place to move or pass on,
shall stand, sit, assemble, loiter or congregate in or on any park, public
street, alley, parking lot, way, sidewalk or public place in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of persons who are lawfully passing along such public
place or in such manner as may tend to cause or result in a public disturbance.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 LITTERING.
   No person knowingly, without the consent of the public authority having
supervision of public property or the owners of private property, shall dump,
deposit, place, throw or leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing,
placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public place, as herein defined,
or upon private property or waters other than property designated and set aside
for such purposes. The term LITTER as used herein shall mean all rubbish,
refuse, waste, material, garbage, paper, glass, cans, bottles, trash, debris or
other foreign substances of every kind and description.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 CREATING NUISANCE BY USE OF NOISE PRODUCING DEVICE.
   (A)   The operating or maintaining of noise making, noise amplifying or
noise producing instruments or devices by which the peace or good order of the
village is unreasonably disturbed is hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   No person, firm, association or corporation by himself or herself or
another shall use, operate, play or permit the use, operation or playing of any
machine, sound production or reproduction device, radio, musical instrument,
drums, compact disc player, phonograph, television set, loud speakers, sound
amplifiers or any other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., from Sunday evening
through Friday morning, and between 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., from Friday
evening through Sunday morning and on those evenings preceding legal holidays,
as provided by law, in such manner as to be plainly audible, the same being
louder than normal conversational tone, at a distance of 50 feet or more from
its point of origin.
   (C)   This provision shall not apply to any participant in parades, band
concerts, lawful fireworks displays, memorial salutes or any other event or
activity which has been authorized by the village or is otherwise specifically
authorized by law.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976; Ord. 149, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 OCCUPYING MOTOR VEHICLE WITH OPEN CONTAINER OF ALCOHOL.
   No person shall knowingly occupy a motor vehicle in or upon any public
highway, street, alley, parking lot or park in the village in which there is
found open or unsealed containers of alcoholic beverages in the passenger
compartment thereof.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 DRINKING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES; PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall drink any intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverage in
or upon any park, public highway, street, alley, sidewalk or parking lot in the
village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to become drunk or intoxicated in
any of the streets or public places within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, or incite others to engage
in, any affray, riot, disturbance, disorderly assemblage or mob or in any way
disturb the public peace within the corporate limits of said village.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, beat or wound any other
person or persons within the corporate limits of said village.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 DISTURBANCE OF RELIGIOUS OR OTHER LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully disturb any religious or
other lawful assemblage or meeting held within the corporate limits of said
village.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 PUBLIC USE OF PROFANE LANGUAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any vulgar or indecent language
in any of the streets or public places within the corporate limits of said
village.
(Ord. 6, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS ****
§ 130.35 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor, under the age of 18 years, to be
or remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places
in said village between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, unless such minor is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other
person having legal custody and control of such minor, or unless such minor is
engaged in the performance of a duty directed by such parent, guardian or
custodian, or is attending approved church, community or school activities.
   (B)   The Village Marshal and/or any other law enforcement official may take
into his or her custody any minor found by him or her violating the provisions
of this section and detain such minor until proper complaint can be made to the
Juvenile Court for the county. Provided, however, that no minor taken into
custody under the provisions of this section shall be placed in any jail or
locked up or shall be placed in any detention home without the order of the
Judge of the Juvenile Court for said county.
(Ord. 35, passed 10-3-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 FURNISHING MINORS WITH ALCOHOL; MINORS POSSESSING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully give, sell or furnish
any alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase or knowingly possess or transport any alcoholic liquor or knowingly
possess, transport or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle any
alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-4-1968) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES AS TO MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DELINQUENT ACTS. Acts which violate the laws of the United States, or the
statutes of the state or the ordinances of the village or those acts which
would cause or tend to cause the minor to come under the jurisdiction of the
juvenile division of the Probate Court as defined by M.C.L.A. § 712A.2, but
does not include traffic violations.
      ILLEGAL DRUGS. Controlled substances obtained without a legal
prescription.
      JUVENILE DELINQUENT. Minors whose behavior interferes with the rights of
other or menaces the welfare of the community.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years residing with a parent.
      PARENT. Mother, father, legal guardian and any other person having the
care or custody of a minor or any person acting in the parents’ stead who has
custody or control of the minor.
   (B)   Parental duties.
      (1)   It is the continuous duty of the parent of any minor to exercise
reasonable control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act.
      (2)   Included (without limitation) in this continuous duty of reasonable
parental control are the following parental duties:
         (a)   To keep illegal drugs or illegal firearms out of the home and
legal firearms locked in places that are inaccessible to the minor;
         (b)   To know the curfew ordinance of the village (Ord. 35 - codified
herein as §
130.35) and to require the minor to observe the curfew ordinance;
         (c)   To require the minor to attend regular school sessions and to
forbid the minor to be absent from class without parental or school permission;
         (d)   To arrange proper supervision for the minor when the parent must
be absent;
         (e)   To take the necessary precautions to prevent the minor from
maliciously or willfully damaging or destroying any real, personal or mixed
property which belongs to the village, or is located in the village; and
         (f)   To forbid the minor from keeping stolen property, illegally
possessing firearms or illegal drugs, or associating with known juvenile
delinquents, and to seek help from appropriate governmental authorities or
private agencies in handling or controlling the minor, when necessary.
   (C)   Notification of parents; record of notification.
      (1)   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained for the commission of any
delinquent act within the village, the parent of the minor shall be immediately
notified by the village, advising the parent of such arrest or detention, the
reason therefor and the parent’s responsibility under this section.
      (2)   A record of such notifications shall be kept by the Police
Department.
   (D)   Parental violation. If a minor commits a delinquent act, the parent
shall be guilty of a violation of this section if it is proven that any act,
word or non-performance of parental duty by the parent encouraged, contributed
toward, caused or tended to cause the commission of the delinquent act by the
minor.
   (E)   Restitution. In addition to any civil penalty imposed pursuant to this
section, the court may order the parent to pay any restitution to a victim of
the minor’s conduct. The amount of the restitution ordered pursuant to this
section shall not exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
130.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment in the county jail up
to 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person indicated in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(c)
below is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction:
         (a)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of §§
130.16 through
130.21,
130.23 and
130.24;
         (b)   Any, parent, guardian or other person who assists, aids, allows,
permits or encourages any minor under the age of 18 years to violate the
provisions of §
130.35; and/or
         (c)   Any parent who violates the provisions of §
130.37, in addition to the other provisions of §
130.37.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
any of the sections listed in division (C)(1) above committed by a person
within any six-month period and for which the person admits responsibility or
is determined to be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of those sections continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
the provisions of §
130.22 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor
more than $100, and the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment
in the discretion of the court.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any provision of §
130.36 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$100 together with the cost of prosecution or by imprisonment for a period of
not to exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion
of the court.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995; Ord. 125, passed 5-14-1997; Ord. 140, passed 6-13-2001)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
152.   RENTAL OF DWELLING UNITS
      
153.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes and Enforcement
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference; enforcing agency
   
150.02   State Electrical Code adopted by reference; enforcing agency
   
150.03   National Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   State Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.05   International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference;
revisions
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.20   Title
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Prohibition of dangerous buildings
   
150.23   Notice of dangerous buildings; hearing
   
150.24   Dangerous building hearing officer
   
150.25   Enforcement hearing before the Village Council
   
150.26   Implementation and enforcement of remedies
   
150.27   Appeal of Village Council decision
Other Uses of Lots
   
150.40   Division of lots in recorded plats
   
150.41   Prohibiting maintenance of trailer camp
 
   
150.99   Penalty
**** STANDARD CODES AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; ENFORCING AGENCY.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction
Code Act of 1972 (Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.;
M.S.A. § 5.2949(1) et seq.), the State Building Code as promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein. All future
additions, deletions, amendments or other changes contained in subsequent
additions and supplements of the State Building Code, promulgated by the State
Construction Code Commission are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as though fully set forth in this section.
   (B)   Enforcing agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the State
Construction Code, in accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 8b(6), as
amended, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6), the village hereby elects to administer
and enforce Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, as amended, and the State Plumbing Code. The village shall also
administer and enforce the respective provisions of the State Residential Code,
State Uniform Energy Code, and State Rehabilitation Code and all applicable
laws and ordinances. A government official registered in accordance with Public
Act 54 of 1986, being M.C.L.A. §§ 338.2301 et seq., shall be appointed to
receive all fees, issue permits, plan reviews, notices orders and certificates
of use and occupancy. All personnel performing plan reviews and inspections
shall be registered in accordance with Public Act 54 of 1986, being M.C.L.A. §§
338.2301 et seq.
   (C)   Board of Appeals. In order to provide for reasonable interpretations
of the provisions of the Building Code there shall be and is hereby created
pursuant to § 14 of the State Construction Code Act of 1972, as amended, a
Construction Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the village is
hereby constituted the Construction Board of Appeals under the State Building
Code. The Building Inspector shall be an ex officio member and shall act as
Secretary of the Board. The Board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations
for conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings
in writing to the Building Inspector with a duplicate copy to the appellant.
   (D)   Public inspection and distribution of Building Code. Printed copies of
the State Building Code are available in the Village Clerk’s office for
inspection and use by the public. Copies of the State Building Code are also
available for distribution to the public at cost.
(Ord. 94, passed 1-13-1988; Ord. 193, passed 6-8-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 STATE ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; ENFORCING AGENCY.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction
Code Act of 1972 (Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.;
M.S.A. § 5.2949(1) et seq.), the State Electrical Code as promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein. All future
additions, deletions, amendments or other changes contained in subsequent
additions and supplements of the State Electrical Code, promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as though fully set forth in this section.
   (B)   Agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the State Electrical
Code, in accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, as amended, the Village Electrical Inspector is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibilities of the
village under the aforementioned Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended. The
village assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said
Act throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   Public inspection and distribution of code. Printed copies of the
State Electrical Code are available in the Village Clerk’s office for
inspection and use by the public. Copies of the State Electrical Code are also
available for distribution to the public at cost.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-10-1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Electrical installations and materials shall conform to the requirements of
the National Electrical Code, 1962 Edition, approved July 24, 1962, by American
Standards Association, Inc. The National Electrical Code, 1962 Edition, as
promulgated and published by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, New York
City, New York, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the
same as if set forth in full herein. The code is adopted by the village for the
purpose of regulating the installation, alteration, repair, conversion, use and
maintenance of all new electric wiring for light, heat and power service
equipment, for radio and television receiving systems and all alterations or
extensions to existing wiring systems in buildings and structures. Complete
printed copies of the National Electrical Code, herein adopted, are available
for public use and inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 33, passed - -1963; Ord. 61, passed 10-21-1974; Ord. 94, passed 1-13-
1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 STATE PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The installation of all interior plumbing work shall comply with
Articles I to XI, inclusive of the State Plumbing Code, which is hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full
herein.
   (B)   Within each living unit, there shall be provided the following
plumbing fixtures:
      (1)   A kitchen sink properly located to facilitate food preparation and
dishwashing;
      (2)   A water closet properly vented, located either in the bathroom or
in a separate toilet compartment; and
      (3)   A bathtub or shower located in a bathroom or other equivalently
vented space.
   (C)   Each of the plumbing fixtures shall be permanently installed and
connected to the plumbing and water system.
(Ord. 33, passed - -1963; Ord. 61, passed 10-21-1974; Ord. 94, passed 1-13-
1988) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE;
REVISIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of § 4 of Chapter V of The General Law
Village Act (Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq.) the
International Property Maintenance Code as published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted by reference, for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Three Oaks;
      (2)   Section 103.6. Insert: As set from time to time by resolution of
the Three Oaks Village Council;
      (3)   Section 303.14. Insert: June 1 to September 1;
      (4)   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1 to April 1; and
      (5)   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1 to April 1.
   (C)   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code
are hereby amended or deleted as set forth in additional sections as set forth
herein. The following section numbers refer to like numbers of sections of the
International Property Maintenance Code.
      (1)   Section 106.3 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
amended to read:
         Section 106.3 Prosecution of Violation and Penalties. Any person who
violates any of the provisions of this Ordinance, or fails to comply with a
notice of violation or order served in accordance with Section 107, in addition
to the other provisions of this Ordinance, is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than Fifty ($50.00)
Dollars or more than Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to an
increased civil fine as follows:
         (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than Two Hundred Fifty ($250.00) Dollars, plus costs and other
sanctions.
         (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than Five Hundred ($500.00)
Dollars, plus costs and other sanctions.
      A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
Ordinance (I) committed by a person within any six (6) month period and (ii)
for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
      Each day on which any violation of this Ordinance continues constitutes a
separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
      (2)   Section 106.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
amended to read:
         Section 106.4 Abatement of violation.  The imposition of the penalties
herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
      (3)   Section 106.5 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
hereby deleted.
(Ord. 137, passed 9-13-2000)
**** DANGEROUS BUILDINGS ****
§ 150.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Dangerous Buildings
Subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure, residential or otherwise,
that has one or more of the following defects or is in one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit that
does not conform to the Village Fire Code or Village Building Code;
      (2)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe
and does not meet the minimum requirements of the Housing Law of the State,
Public Act 167 of 1917, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended, or the Village
Building Code for a new building or structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse and injure persons or damage property;
      (4)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure
have materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by the Housing Law of the State, Public Act 167 of 1917, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended, or the Village Building Code;
      (5)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way;
      (6)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (7)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood, or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a harbor
for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful or immoral act;
      (8)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or
unfit for human habitation, is in a condition that the Health Officer of the
village or county determines is likely to cause sickness or disease, or is
likely to injure the health, safety or general welfare of people living in the
dwelling;
      (9)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers; or
      (10)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Article 25 of the
Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2501 et seq.,
or is not publicly offered for sale by the owner. This division (10) does not
apply to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies the Police Department that the building or structure
will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days. The notice shall
be given by the owner or agent not more than 30 days after the building or
structure becomes unoccupied; and
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with this subchapter and the Housing Law of the
State, Public Act 167 of 1917, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended,
or the Village Building Code; or
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies the Police
Department that the dwelling will remain unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or more each year. An owner who has given the notice
prescribed by this division (10)(b) shall notify the Police Department not more
than 30 days after the dwelling no longer qualifies for this exception. As used
in this division (b), SECONDARY DWELLING means a dwelling such as a vacation
home or summer home, that is occupied by the owner or a member of the owner’s
family during part of year.
   ENFORCING AGENCY. This village, through the Village Building Official and/or
such other official(s) or agency as may be designated by the Village Council to
enforce this subchapter.
   VILLAGE BUILDING CODE.  The building code administered and enforced in the
village pursuant to the State Construction Code Commission Act, Public Act 230
of 1972,being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 150.22 PROHIBITION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or part thereof which is a dangerous building as defined in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; HEARING.
   (A)   Notice requirement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter, if a building or structure is found to be a dangerous building, the
enforcing agency shall issue a notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building.
   (B)   Parties entitled to notice. The notice shall be served on each owner
of or party in interest in the building or structure in whose name the property
appears on the last local tax assessment records of the village.
   (C)   Contents of notice. The notice shall specify the time and place of a
hearing on whether the building or structure is a dangerous building and state
that the person to whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity at
the hearing to show cause why the Hearing Officer should not order the building
or structure to be demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained.
   (D)   Service of notice. The notice shall be in writing and shall be served
upon the person to whom the notice is directed either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records. If a notice is served upon a
person by certified mail, a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a
conspicuous part of the building or structure. The notice shall be served upon
the owner or party in interest at least ten days before the date of the hearing
included in the notice.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 DANGEROUS BUILDING HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment of Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed
by the Village President to serve at his or her pleasure. The Hearing Officer
shall be a person who has expertise in housing matters, including, but not
limited to, an engineer, architect, building contractor, building inspector or
member of a community housing organization. An employee of the enforcing agency
shall not be appointed as a Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Filing dangerous building notice with Hearing Officer. The enforcing
agency shall file a copy of the notice of the dangerous condition of any
building with the Hearing Officer.
   (C)   Hearing testimony and decision. At a hearing prescribed by this
subchapter, the Hearing Officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency,
the owner of the property, and any interested party. Not more than five days
after completion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall render a decision
either closing the proceedings or ordering the building or structure
demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (D)   Compliance with Hearing Officer order. If the Hearing Officer
determines that the building or structure should be demolished, otherwise made
safe, or properly maintained, the Hearing Officer shall so order, fixing a time
in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply with the order. If the
building is a dangerous building under §
150.21 of this subchapter, the order may require the owner or agent to maintain
the exterior of the building and adjoining grounds owned by the owner of the
building including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees and
shrubs.
   (E)   Noncompliance with Hearing Officer order/request to enforce order. If
the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses to comply
with the order issued under division (D) above, the Hearing Officer shall file
a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Village Council not
more than five days after noncompliance by the owner and request that necessary
action be taken to enforce the order. A copy of the findings and order of the
Hearing Officer shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner
prescribed in §
150.23(D).
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 ENFORCEMENT HEARING BEFORE THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Village Council shall fix a date not less than 30 days after the hearing
prescribed in §
150.24(C) of this subchapter for a hearing on the findings and order of the
Hearing Officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent or lessee in the
manner prescribed in §
150.23(D) of this subchapter of the time and place of the hearing. At the
hearing, the owner, agent or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show
cause why the order should not be enforced. The Village Council shall either
approve, disapprove or modify the order. If the Village Council approves or
modifies the order, the Village Council shall take all necessary action to
enforce the order. If the order is approved or modified, the owner, agent or
lessee shall comply with the order within 60 days after the date of the hearing
under this section. In the case of an order of demolition, if the Village
Council determines that the building or structure has been substantially
destroyed by fire, wind, flood or other natural disaster and the cost of repair
of the building or structure will be greater than the state equalized value of
the building or structure, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply with the
order of demolition within 21 days after the date of the hearing under this
section.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REMEDIES.
   (A)   Implementation of order by village. In the event of the failure or
refusal of the owner or party in interest to comply with the decision of the
Village Council, it may, in its discretion, contract for the demolition, making
safe or maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds
adjoining the building or structure.
   (B)   Reimbursement of costs. The costs of the demolition, of making the
building safe or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure, incurred by the village to bring
the property into conformance with this subchapter shall be reimbursed to the
village by the owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (C)   Notice of costs. The owner or party in interest in whose name the
property appears upon the last local tax assessment records shall be notified
by the Village Assessor of the amount of the costs of the demolition, of making
the building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure
or grounds adjoining the building or structure, by first class mail at the
address shown on the village records.
   (D)   Lien for unpaid costs. If the owner or party in interest fails to pay
the costs within 30 days after mailing by the Village Assessor of the notice of
the amount of the cost, in the case of a single-family dwelling or a two-family
dwelling, the village shall have a lien for the costs incurred by the village
to bring the property into conformance with this subchapter. The lien shall not
take effect until notice of the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by
law. A lien provided for in this division (D) does not have priority over
previously filed or recorded liens and encumbrances. The lien for the costs
shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for property tax
liens under the General Property Tax Act, Public Act 206 of 1893, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 et seq., as amended.
   (E)   Court judgment for unpaid costs. In addition to other remedies under
this subchapter, the village may bring an action against the owner of the
building or structure for the full cost of the demolition, of making the
building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure. In the case of a single-family
dwelling or a two-family dwelling, the village shall have a lien on the
property for the amount of a judgment obtained pursuant to this division (E).
The lien provided for in this division (E) shall not take effect until notice
of the lien is filed and recorded as provided for by law. The lien does not
have priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
   (F)   Enforcement of judgment. A judgment in an action brought pursuant to
division (E) above may be enforced against assets of the owner other than the
building or structure.
   (G)   Lien for judgment amount. In the case of a single-family dwelling or a
two-family dwelling, the village shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment
obtained pursuant to division (E) above against the owner’s interest in all
real property located in this state that is owned in whole or in part by the
owner of the building or structure against which the judgment is obtained. A
lien provided for in this division (G) does not take effect until notice of the
lien is filed or recorded as provided by law, and the lien does not have
priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 APPEAL OF VILLAGE COUNCIL DECISION.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Village Council
under §
150.25 of this subchapter, may appeal the decision or order to the circuit
court by filing a petition for an order of superintending control within 21
days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)
**** OTHER USES OF LOTS ****
§ 150.40 DIVISION OF LOTS IN RECORDED PLATS.
   (A)   The division of a lot, out lot or parcel of land in a recorded plat is
prohibited, unless approved following application to the Building Inspector or
some other village officer that may be designated to receive such applications
from time to time by the Village Council. The application shall state the
reason for the proposed division. No lot, out lot or parcel of land in a
recorded plat shall be divided into more than four parts and the resulting lots
shall not be less in area than permitted by any Village zoning ordinance,
building ordinance, or Public Act 288 of 1967, M.C.L.A. § 560.186 as amended,
being the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, whichever is the more restrictive.
No building permit shall be issued, or any building construction commenced,
unless the division has been approved by the Building Inspector or other
designated village officer.
   (B)   The division of a lot, out lot or parcel of land in a recorded plat
resulting in a smaller area than prescribed herein may be permitted after prior
approval of the Building Inspector or other designated village officer, for the
purposes of adding to existing building site or sites, or for any other use
that does not or is not likely to contravene any existing zoning ordinances,
building ordinance or state statutes and does not and would not result in
crowding, congestion or contribute unduly to problems of public health,
sanitation and general welfare. Any person whose application for the division
of any lot in a recorded plat is denied, shall have the right to appeal to the
Village Council or to any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The application for the division of any lot, out lot or parcel of land
in a recorded plat shall be in affidavit form and shall contain a drawing
showing the dimensions and the description of:
      (1)   The entire lot in question; and
      (2)   Each lot or part of a lot resulting from the proposed division.
   (D)   The approval by the Building Inspector or other designated village
officer of the division of any lot, out lot or parcel of land in any recorded
plat shall be contingent on an agreement in writing by the applicant that any
sales contract, deed or other documents presented for recording at the office
of the County Register of Deeds, shall be accompanied by a copy of the written
approval thereof by the village or its duly authorized representatives.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-2-1969) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 PROHIBITING MAINTENANCE OF TRAILER CAMP.
   (A)   No person or persons, firm, corporation or partnership or combination
of same, shall operate, maintain or permit to be operated or maintained on
their land or on land under their control, any trailer camp within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section a TRAILER CAMP is hereby defined to
be a group of two or more automobile trailers located within 100 feet of each
other.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-3-1947) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person indicated in divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) below
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction:
         (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in
accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 23(3), being M.C.L.A. § 125.1523(3),
a violation by any person of §§ 23(1) or 23(2) of said Act; and
         (b)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.27, or §
150.41.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
the sections indicated in divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of the sections referred to in
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above continues constitutes a separate offense
and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
      (5)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with §
150.01.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 123, passed 5-14-
1997; Ord. 193, passed 6-8-2011)
CHAPTER 151: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Description of district
   
151.02   Purpose of Authority
   
151.03   Authority defined
   
151.04   Termination of Authority
Governing Board
   
151.15   Establishment of Governing Board
   
151.16   Removal of Board member
   
151.17   Board rules and meetings
   
151.18   Employment of personnel by Board
   
151.19   Duties of Board
Financing, Taxation and other Provisions Concerning the Authority
   
151.30   Transfer of private property to Authority
   
151.31   Financing of Authority
   
151.32   Levying of ad valorem tax
   
151.33   Borrowing money; issuing revenue bonds
   
151.34   Tax increment financing plan
   
151.35   Disposition of tax increment
   
151.36   General obligation bonds
   
151.37   Contents of development plan
   
151.38   Public hearings on development plan
   
151.39   Conditions for approval of development plan
   
151.40   Relocation of persons
   
151.41   Budget
   
151.42   Historic sites
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.01 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICT.
   A Downtown Development Authority is hereby created, pursuant to Public Act
197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended, for the
following described district, being in the village:
   A part of Sections 2, 3, 10 and 11, Township 8 South, Range 20 West, Three
Oaks Township, also being a part of the Village of Three Oaks, Berrien County,
Michigan described as: Beginning at a point on the center line of US Highway 12
and the North line of Section 10, 900.1 feet West of the North quarter post of
Section 10; thence North T 40 feet East, 307 feet; thence North 29° 22' East
266.82 feet to the Southerly right-of-way line of the Amtrak Railroad; thence
Easterly, along said right-of-way line 2031 feet; thence North 149.7 feet, more
or less, to the Northerly line of said right-of-way; thence Easterly, along
said Northerly right-of-way line, 113.41 feet; thence North 00° 02' East 358.28
feet; thence South 89° 58' 19" East 397.71 feet; thence North 278.88 feet,
thence South 89° 18' East 156.78 feet; thence North, 124 feet, more or less, to
the North line of Chicago Street; thence East, along the North line of said
Chicago Street, 194.3 feet, more or less, to the West line of Featherbone
Avenue; thence North, along said West line, 140 feet; thence East 284 feet;
thence South 50 feet; thence East 166 feet to the center line of Elm Street;
thence continuing East 33 feet to the East line of said Elm Street; thence
South, along said East line, 82 feet to the North line of Sycamore Street;
thence East, along said North line 132 feet; thence South 330 feet to the North
line of Maple Street; thence East, along said North line, 528 feet; thence
South 227 feet; thence East 264 feet to the East line of Hickory Street; thence
South, along said East line, 208 feet to the center line of the Amtrak
Railroad; thence Westerly, along said center line 445.5 feet; thence south 446
feet to the South line of Linden Street; thence West, along said South line,
132 feet to the East line of Oak Street; thence South, along said East line,
330 feet to the South line of Ash Street; thence continuing South, along the
East line of Oak Street, 198 feet; thence West 379.5 feet to the center line of
Elm Street; thence continuing West 165 feet; thence South 49.5 feet; thence
West 132 feet; thence North 247.5 feet to the South line of Ash Street; thence
Northeast 66 feet, more or less, to the Southeast corner of Lot 1, Friedle’s
Addition; thence North, along said East line of said Friedle’s Addition, 330
feet to the South line of Linden Street; thence West, along said South line,
1003.5 feet to the East line of Memorial Drive; thence South, along said East
line, 330 feet to the South line of Ash Street; thence West along said South
line 18 feet; thence South 447.25 feet to the South line of Locust Street;
thence West, along said South line 1013 feet; thence South 200 feet; thence
West 297 feet to the North and South Quarter line of said Section 10; thence
North, on the North and South Quarter line of said Section, to a point 419.24
feet, more or less, to the center line of US Highway 12 and the North line of
Section 10; thence West, on the center line of US Highway 12 and the North line
of Section 10, to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE OF AUTHORITY.
   The Downtown Development Authority is hereby created to halt property value
deterioration and increase property tax valuation in the above district, to
eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY DEFINED.
   The Authority shall be deemed an instrumentality of a political subdivision
for purposes of Public Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 213.321 through
213.332.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.04 TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.
   An Authority which has completed the purposes for which it was organized
shall be dissolved by ordinance of the Village Council. The property and assets
of the Authority remaining after the satisfaction of the obligations of the
Authority shall belong to the village.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
**** GOVERNING BOARD ****
§ 151.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF GOVERNING BOARD.
   The said Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board,
consisting of the President of the village or the President's designee from the
Village Council and eight members appointed by the said President of the
village; subject to the approval of the Village Council. A majority of the
members shall be persons having an interest in property located in the downtown
district or officers, members, trustees, principals, or employees of a legal
entity having an interest in property located in the downtown district. One of
the members shall be a resident of the district, if the district is found to
have 100 or more persons residing therein. Of the first members appointed as
equal a number as practicable shall be appointed for one year, two years, three
years, and four years. A member of the Board shall hold office until the
member's successor is appointed. Thereafter, each member of the Board shall
serve for a term of four years. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation, but they shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses.
The Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010; Ord. 199, passed 12-12-2012; Ord. 220, passed 3-
10-2021)
§ 151.16 REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBER.
   A member of the Board may be removed for cause by the Village Council.
Before a member is removed the member shall be given written notice of the
cause or causes for removal and an opportunity to be heard before the Village
Council. The removal of a member is subject to review by the circuit court.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.17 BOARD RULES AND MEETINGS.
   The Board shall adopt rules consistent with Public Act 267 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, governing its procedure, the holding of
regular and special meetings subject to the approval of the Village Council.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.18 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL BY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Director, subject
to the approval of the Village Council. The Director shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board. A member of the Board is not eligible to hold the
position of Director. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the
Director shall take and subscribe to the constitutional oath, and furnish bond,
by posting a bond in the amount of $10,000, payable to the Authority, for the
use and benefit of the Authority, approved by the Board, and filed with the
Village Clerk. The premium on the bond shall be deemed an operating expense of
the Authority, payable from funds available to the Authority for expenses of
operation. The Director shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.
Subject to the approval of the Board, the Director shall supervise, and be
responsible for, the preparation of plans and the performance of the functions
of the Authority. The Director shall attend the meetings of the Board and shall
render to the Board and to the Village Council a regular report covering the
activities and financial condition of the Authority. If the Director is absent
or disabled, the Board may designate a qualified person as acting Director to
perform the duties of the office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, the acting Director shall take and subscribe to the oath, and furnish
bond, as require of the Director. The Director shall furnish the Board with
information or reports governing the operation of the Authority as the Board
requires.
   (B)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Treasurer, who
shall keep the financial records of the Authority and who, together with the
Director, shall approve all vouchers for the expenditure of funds for the
Authority. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be delegated to
him or her by the Board and shall furnish bond in an amount as prescribed by
the Board.
   (C)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Secretary, who
shall maintain custody of the official seal of records, books, documents or
other papers not required to be maintained by the Treasurer. The Secretary
shall attend meetings of the Board and keep a record of its proceedings, and
shall perform such other duties delegated by the Board.
   (D)   The Board may retain Legal Counsel to advise the Board in the proper
performance of its duties. The Legal Counsel shall represent the Authority in
actions brought by or against the Authority.
   (E)   The Board may employ other personnel deemed necessary by the Board.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.19 DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board shall:
   (A)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the district;
   (B)   Study and analyze the impact of metropolitan growth upon the district;
   (C)   Plan and propose the construction, the renovation, repair, remodeling,
rehabilitation, restoration, preservation or reconstruction of a public
facility, an existing building, or a multiple-family dwelling unit which may be
necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan which, in the opinion of
the Board, aids in the economic growth of the district;
   (D)   Develop long-range plans, in cooperation with the agency which is
chiefly responsible for planning in the village, designed to halt the
deterioration of property values in the district and to promote the economic
growth of the district, and take such steps as may be necessary to persuade
property owners to implement the plans to the fullest extent possible;
   (E)   Implement any plan of development in the district necessary to achieve
the purposes of this chapter, in accordance with the powers of the Authority as
granted by this chapter;
   (F)   Make and enter into contracts necessary or incidental to the exercise
of its powers and the performance of its duties;
   (G)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and conditions and in a
manner the Authority deems proper to own, convey, or otherwise dispose of, or
lease as lessor or lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or rights
or interests therein, which the Authority determines is reasonably necessary to
achieve the purposes of this chapter, and to grant or acquire licenses,
easements and options with respect thereof;
   (H)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore and
preserve, equip, improve, maintain, repair and operate any building, including
multiple-family dwellings, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances
thereto, within the district for the use, in whole or in part, of any public or
private person or corporation, or a combination thereof;
   (I)   Fix, charge and collect fees, rents and charges for the use of any
building or property under its control or any part thereof, or facility
therein, and pledge the fees, rents and charges for the payment of revenue
bonds issued by the Authority;
   (J)   Lease any building or property under its control, or any part thereof;
   (K)   Accept grants and donations of property, labor or other things of
value from a public or private source; and
   (L)   Acquire and construct public facilities.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
**** FINANCING, TAXATION AND OTHER PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE AUTHORITY ****
§ 151.30 TRANSFER OF PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AUTHORITY.
   The village may take private property under Public Act 149 of 1911, M.C.L.A.
§§ 213.21 et seq., as amended, for the purpose of transfer to the Authority,
and may transfer the property to the Authority for use in an approved
development, on terms and conditions it deems appropriate, and the taking,
transfer and use shall be considered necessary for public purposes and for the
benefit of the public.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.31 FINANCING OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or more of
the following sources:
      (1)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions;
      (2)   Proceeds of a tax imposed pursuant to §
151.32;
      (3)   Money borrowed and to be paid as authorized by §
151.33;
      (4)   Revenues from any property, building or facility owned, leased,
licensed or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements;
      (5)   Proceeds of a tax increment financing plan, established under §§
151.34 through
151.36;
      (6)   Proceeds from a special assessment district created as provided by
law; and
      (7)   Money obtained from other sources approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   Money received by the Authority and not covered under division (A)
above shall immediately be deposited to the credit of the Authority, subject to
disbursement pursuant to this chapter. Except as provided in this chapter, the
village shall not obligate itself, nor shall it ever be obligated to pay any
sums from public funds, other than money received by the village pursuant to
this section, for or on account of the activities of the Authority.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.32 LEVYING OF AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   The Authority with the approval of the Village Council may levy an ad
valorem tax on the real and tangible personal property not exempt by law and as
finally equalized in the downtown district. The tax shall not be more than two
mills. The tax shall be collected by the village. The village shall collect the
tax at the same time and in the same manner as it collects its other ad valorem
taxes. The tax shall be paid to the Treasurer of the Authority, if one has been
appointed, and credited to the General Fund of the Authority for purposes of
the Authority.
   (B)   The village may, at the request of the Authority, borrow money and
issue its notes therefor in anticipation of collection of the ad valorem tax
authorized in this section.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.33 BORROWING MONEY; ISSUING REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   The Authority may borrow money and issue its negotiable revenue bonds
therefore pursuant to Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through
141.138, as amended. Revenue bonds issued by the Authority shall not, except as
hereinafter provided, be deemed a debt of the village or the state. The
village, by a majority vote of the members of the Village Council, may pledge
its full faith and credit to support the Authority’s revenue bonds.
   (B)   The Authority may, with approval of the Village Council, borrow money
and issue its revenue bonds or notes to finance all or part of the costs of
acquiring or constructing property in connection with the implementation of a
development plan in the downtown district or to refund or refund in advance
bonds or notes issued pursuant to this section. The costs which may be financed
by the issuance of revenue bonds or notes may include the cost of purchasing,
acquiring, constructing, improving, enlarging, extending or repairing property
in connection with the implementation of a development plan in the downtown
district; any engineering, architectural, legal, accounting or financial
expenses; the costs necessary or incidental to the borrowing of money; interest
on the bonds or notes during the period of construction; a reserve for payment
of principal and interest on the bonds or notes; and a reserve for operation
and maintenance until sufficient revenues have developed. The Authority may
secure the bonds and notes by mortgage, assignment or pledge of the property
and any money, revenues or income received in connection therewith.
   (C)   A pledge made by the Authority shall be valid and binding from the
time the pledge is made. The money or property pledged by the Authority
immediately shall be subject to the lien of the pledge without a physical
delivery, filing or further act. The lien of such a pledge shall be valid and
binding as against parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract or
otherwise, against the Authority, irrespective of whether the parties have
notice of the lien. Neither the resolution, the trust agreement nor any other
instrument by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded.
   (D)   The village shall not be liable on bonds or notes the Authority issued
pursuant to this section and the bonds or notes shall not be a debt of the
village. The bonds or notes shall contain on their face a statement to that
effect.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.34 TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   As used in this section and §§
151.35 and
151.36 the following definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE. The amount in any one year, by which the current
assessed value of the project area, including the assessed value of the
property for which a commercial facilities exemption certificate has been
issued pursuant to Public Act 255 of 1978, M.C.L.A. §§ 207.651 et seq., as
amended, the assessed value of property for which an industrial facilities
exemption certificate has been issued pursuant to Public Act 198 of 1974,
M.C.L.A. §§ 207.551 et seq., as amended, and the assessed value of property for
which a commercial housing facilities exemption certificate has been issued
pursuant to Public Act 438 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 207.601 et seq., as amended,
exceeds the initial assessed value.
      INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE.  The most recently assessed value, as finally
equalized by the State Board of Equalization, of all the taxable property
within the boundaries of the development area at the time the ordinance
establishing the tax increment financing plan is approved. Property exempt from
taxation at the time of the determination of the initial assessed value shall
be included as zero. For the purpose of determining initial assessed value,
property for which a commercial facilities exemption certificate, an industrial
facilities exemption certificate or a commercial housing facilities exemption
certificate is in effect shall not be considered to be property which is exempt
from taxation.
   (B)   When the Authority determines that it is necessary for the achievement
of the purposes of this chapter, the Authority shall prepare and submit a tax
increment financing plan to the Village Council. The plan shall include a
development plan as provided in §
151.37, a detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure, the maximum
amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred, the duration of the program and
shall be in compliance with §
151.35. The plan shall contain a statement of the estimated impact of tax
increment financing on the assessed values of all taxing jurisdictions in which
the development area is located. The plan may be provided for the use of part
or all of the captured assessed value, but the portion intended to be used by
the Authority shall be clearly stated in the tax increment financing plan.
   (C)   Approval of the tax increment financing plan shall be in accordance
with the notice, hearing and disclosure provisions of §
151.38. When the development plan is part of the tax increment financing plan,
only one hearing and approval procedure is required for the two plans together.
   (D)   Before the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan, the
Village Council shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the members of the
County Board of Commissioners to meet with the Village Council. The Authority
shall fully inform members of the County Board of Commissioners of the fiscal
and economic implications of the proposed development area. The members of the
County Board of Commissioners may present their recommendations at the public
hearing on the tax increment financing plan. The Authority may enter into
agreements with the County Board of Commissioners and the governing body of the
village to share a portion of the captured assessed value of the district.
   (E)   A tax increment financing may be modified if the modification is
approved by the Village Council upon notice and after public hearings and
agreements as are required for approval of the original plan.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.35 DISPOSITION OF TAX INCREMENT.
   (A)   The amount of tax increment to be transmitted to the Authority by the
Village Treasurer and County Treasurer shall be that portion of the tax levy of
all taxing bodies paid each year on real and personal property in the project
area on the captured assessed value. For the purpose of this section, that
portion of a commercial facilities tax levied pursuant to Public Act 255 of
1978, § 12, M.C.L.A. § 207.662, that portion of an industrial facilities tax
levied after December 30, 1980 pursuant to Public Act 198 of 1974, § 11,
M.C.L.A. § 207.561, as amended, and that portion of a commercial housing
facilities tax levied after December 30, 1980 pursuant to Public Act 438 or
1976, § 6, M.C.L.A. § 207.606, amended, which is attributable to the captured
assessed value of the facility shall be included as a part of the tax increment
to be transmitted to the Authority.
   (B)   The Authority shall expend the tax increments received for the
development program only pursuant to the tax increment financing plan. Surplus
funds shall revert proportionately to the respective taxing bodies. These
revenues shall not be used to circumvent existing property tax limitations. The
Village Council may abolish the tax increment financing plan when it finds that
the purposes for which it was established are accomplished. However, the tax
increment financing plan shall not be abolished until the principle of, and
interest on, bonds issued pursuant to §
151.36 have been paid or funds sufficient to make the payment have been
segregated.
   (C)   Annually, the Authority shall submit to the Village Council a report
on the status of the tax increment financing account. The report shall include:
the amount and source of revenue in the account; the amount and purpose of
expenditures from the account; the amount of principle and interest in any
outstanding bonding indebtedness; the initial assessed value of the project
area; the captured assessed value retained by the Authority; the tax increments
received; and any additional information the Village Council considers
necessary. The report shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.36 GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS.
   (A)   The village may by resolution of its Village Council authorize, issue
and sell general obligation bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this
section to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan
or to refund bonds issued under this section and shall pledge its full faith
and credit for the payment of the bonds. The bonds shall mature in not more
than 30 years and shall be subject to the Municipal Financing Act, Public Act
202 of 1943, as amended. Before the village may authorize the borrowing, the
Authority shall submit an estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenue to
be available for payment of principle and interest on the bonds, to the Village
Council. This estimate shall be approved by the Village Council by resolution
adopted by a majority vote of the members of the Village Council in the
resolution authorizing the bonds. If the bonds are approved by the Department
of Treasury in those instances in which an exception to prior approval is not
available under Public Act 202 of 1943, Ch. III, § 11, or if the Village
Council adopts the resolution authorizing the bonds and prior approval of the
Department of Treasury is not required pursuant to Public Act 202 of 1943, Ch.
III, § 11, the estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenue to be
available for payment of principle and interest on the bonds shall be
conclusive for the purposes of this section. The village may not pledge for
annual debt service requirements in any one year in excess of 80% of the
estimated tax increment revenue to be received from the development area for
that year, and the total aggregate amount of borrowing shall not exceed an
amount which the 80% of the estimated tax increment will service as to annual
principle and interest requirements. The bonds issued under this section shall
be considered a single series for the purposes of Public Act 202 of 1943, as
amended.
   (B)   By resolution of its governing body, the Authority may authorize,
issue and sell tax increment bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this
section to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan
or to refund bonds issued under this section. The tax increment bonds issued by
the Authority under this section shall pledge solely the tax increments of the
project for which the bonds are issued and any other revenues which the
Authority shall specifically pledge in the resolution and shall not pledge the
full faith and credit of either the Authority or the village. The bonds shall
mature in not more than 30 years and shall bear interest and be payable upon
the terms and conditions determined by the Authority in the resolution
approving the bonds and shall be sold at public or private sale by the
Authority. The bond issue may include a sum sufficient to pay interest on the
tax increment bonds until full development of tax increments from the project
and also a sum to provide a reasonable reserve for payment of principle and
interest on the bonds. The resolution authorizing the bonds shall create a lien
on the tax increments and other revenues pledged by the resolution which shall
be a statutory lien and shall be a first lien subject only to liens previously
created. The resolution may provide the terms upon which additional bonds may
be issued of equal standing and parity of lien as to the tax increments and
other revenues pledged pursuant to the resolution.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.37 CONTENTS OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   When the Board decides to finance a project in the downtown district
by the use of revenue bonds as authorized in §
151.33 or tax increment financing as authorized in §§
151.34 through
151.36, it shall prepare a development plan.
   (B)   The development plan shall contain:
      (1)   The designation of boundaries of the development area in relation
to highways, streets, streams or otherwise;
      (2)   The location and extent of existing streets and other public
facilities within the development area and shall designate the location,
character and extent of the categories of public and private land uses then
existing and proposed for the development area, including residential,
recreational, commercial, industrial, educational and other uses and shall
include a legal description of the development area;
      (3)   A description of existing improvements in the development area to
be demolished, repaired or altered, a description of any repairs and
alterations, and an estimate of the time required for completion;
      (4)   The location, extent, character and estimated cost of the
improvements including rehabilitation contemplated for the development area and
an estimate of the time required for completion;
      (5)   A statement of the construction or stages of construction planned,
and the estimated time of completion of each stage;
      (6)   A description of any parts of the development area to be left as
open space and the use contemplated for the space;
      (7)   A description of any portions of the development area which the
Authority desires to sell, donate, exchange or lease to or from the village and
the proposed terms;
      (8)   A description of desired zoning changes and changes in streets,
street levels, intersections and utilities;
      (9)   An estimate of the cost of the development, a statement of the
proposed method of financing the development and the ability of the Authority
to arrange the financing;
      (10)   Designation of the person or persons, natural or corporate, to
whom all or a portion of the development is to be leased, sold, or conveyed in
any manner and for whose benefit the project is being undertaken if that
information is available to the Authority;
      (11)   The procedures for bidding for the leasing, purchasing or
conveying in any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its
completion, if there is no express or implied agreement between the Authority
and persons, natural or corporate, that all or a portion of the development
will be leased, sold or conveyed in any manner to those persons;
      (12)   Estimates of the number of persons residing in the development
area and the number of families and individuals to be displaced. If occupied
residences are designated for acquisition and clearance by the Authority, a
development plan shall include a survey of the families and individuals to be
displaced, including their income and racial composition, a statistical
description of the housing supply in the community, including the number of
private and public units in existence or under construction, the condition of
those in existence, the number of owner-occupied and renter-occupied units, the
annual rate of turnover of the various types of housing and the range of rents
and sale prices, an estimate of the total demand for housing in the community
and the estimated capacity of private and public housing available to displaced
families and individuals;
      (13)   A plan for establishing priority for the relocation of persons
displaced by the development in any new housing in the development area;
      (14)   Provision for the costs of relocating persons displaced by the
development and financial assistance and reimbursement for expenses, including
litigation expenses and expenses incident to the transfer of title, in
accordance with the standards and provisions of the Federal Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, being Pub. L.
No. 91-646, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq.;
      (15)   A plan for compliance with Public Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 213.321 through 213.332; and
      (16)   Other material which the Authority, local public agency or Village
Council deems pertinent.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.38 PUBLIC HEARINGS ON DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Council, before adoption of an ordinance approving a
development plan or tax increment financing plan, shall hold a public hearing
on the development plan. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
given by publication twice in a newspaper of general circulation designated by
the village, the first of which shall be not less than 20 days before the date
set for the hearing. Proof of publication shall be by affidavit of the
publisher, secured and made a part of said proceedings. Notice of the hearing
shall be posted in at least 20 conspicuous and public places in the downtown
district not less than 20 days before the hearing. Notice shall also be mailed
to all property taxpayers of record in the downtown district not less than 20
days before the hearing. The Village Clerk shall attest to proof of posting and
mailing by affidavit made a part of said proceedings.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of hearing on a development plan shall
contain: a description of the proposed development area in relation to
highways, streets, streams or otherwise; a statement that maps, plats and a
description of the development plan, including the method of relocating
families and individuals who may be displaced from the area, are available for
public inspection at a place designated in the notice, and that all aspects of
the development plan will be open for discussion at the public hearing; and
other information that the Village Council deems appropriate. At the time set
for the hearing, the Village Council shall provide an opportunity for
interested persons to be heard and shall receive and consider communications in
writing with reference thereto. The hearing shall provide the fullest
opportunity for expression of opinion, for argument on the merits, and for
introduction of documentary evidence pertinent to the development plan. The
Village Council shall make and preserve a record of the public hearing,
including all data presented thereat.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.39 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Council after a public hearing on the development plan or
the tax increment financing plan, or both, with notice thereof given in
accordance with §
151.38, shall determine whether the development plan or tax increment financing
plan constitutes a public purpose.
   (B)   If it determines that the development plan or tax increment financing
plan constitutes a public purpose, it shall then approve or reject the plan, or
approve it with modification, by ordinance based on the following
considerations:
      (1)   The plan meets the requirements set forth in §
151.37(B);
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing;
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   The land included within the development area to be acquired is
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and of this chapter
in an efficient and economically satisfactory manner;
      (5)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the Master Plan
of the village;
      (6)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities,
are or will be adequate to service the project area; and
      (7)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities are reasonably necessary for the project and for the village.
   (C)   Amendments to an approved development plan or tax increment plan must
be submitted by the Authority to the Village Council for approval or rejection.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.40 RELOCATION OF PERSONS.
   A person to be relocated under this chapter shall be given not less than 90
days’ written notice to vacate unless modified by court order for good cause.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.41 BUDGET.
   (A)   The Director of the Authority, if one has been appointed, or otherwise
the Board as a whole, shall prepare and submit for the approval of the Board a
budget for the operation of the Authority for the ensuing fiscal year. The
budget shall be prepared in a manner and contain the information required of
municipal departments. Before the budget may be adopted by the Board, it shall
be approved by the Village Council. Funds of the village shall not be included
in the budget of the Authority except those funds authorized in this ordinance
or by the Village Council.
   (B)   The Village Council may assess a reasonable pro rata share of the
funds for the cost of handling and auditing the funds against the funds of the
Authority, other than those committed, which cost shall be paid annually by the
Board pursuant to an appropriate item in its budget.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.42 HISTORIC SITES.
   (A)   A public facility, building or structure which is determined by the
village to have significant historical interests shall be preserved in a manner
as deemed necessary by the village in accordance with laws relative to the
preservation of historical sites.
   (B)   The Authority shall refer all proposed changes to the exterior of
sites listed on the State Register of Historic Sites and the National Register
of Historic Places to the applicable Historic District Commission created under
Public Act 169 of 1970, M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 et seq., or the Secretary of State
for review.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
CHAPTER 152: RENTAL OF DWELLING UNITS
Section
   
152.01   Scope
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Registration required
   
152.04   Registration forms
   
152.05   Certificate of compliance
   
152.06   Inspections and fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Short-term rentals, see
Chapter 115
§ 152.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to any dwelling or part thereof which is occupied
by persons pursuant to any oral or written rental or lease agreement or other
valuable compensation. Such dwelling shall include, but is not limited to,
single-family dwellings, multiple-family dwellings, rooming houses, boarding
houses, and bed and breakfast facilities. This chapter also includes mobile
home inspections as provided for in Public Act 215 of 2009, being M.C.L.A. §
125.2307.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter or any duly authorized
representative.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued by the Village Building
Official/Zoning Administrator which certifies compliance with the provisions of
the ordinances of the village for rental dwellings.
   DWELLING. Any structure, building or other facility promised and/or leased
to a residential tenant or tenants for use as a home, residence or sleeping
unit. This definition includes, but without limitation, one and two family
DWELLINGS.
   OCCUPANT. Includes all tenants, lessees and persons residing within a rental
dwelling or rental unit.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation or any other legal entity having a
legal or equitable interest in the premises.
   OWNER REPRESENTATIVE. A person or representative of a corporation,
partnership, firm, joint venture, trust, association, organization or other
entity designated by the owner of the premises as responsible for operating
such property in compliance with all the provisions of the village ordinances.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All rental dwelling units are required to be registered pursuant to this
chapter and shall comply with the following:
   (A)   All existing rental property shall be registered within 90 days of the
effective date of this chapter and every three years thereafter re-registration
is required;
   (B)   All newly constructed rental dwelling units shall be registered prior
to any use or occupancy as a rental dwelling unit and every three years
thereafter re-registration is required;
   (C)   A change in ownership of a rental dwelling requires the new owner to
register within 30 days of the ownership change. An existing certificate of
compliance shall be transferred to the new owner and shall be valid until its
expiration; and
   (D)   All existing non-rental dwelling units, which are converted to rental
dwelling units, shall be registered prior to the date on which the property is
first occupied for rental purposes and every three years thereafter shall be
re-registered.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 REGISTRATION FORMS.
   Applications for registration shall be made in such form as may be provided
in accordance with such instructions by the Building Official/Zoning
Administrator designated by the Village Manager and shall include the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner, no post office
box will be accepted unless accompanied by a physical address;
   (B)   The rental property owner may appoint a representative. The owner
representative’s name, address and phone number shall be included on the
registration form including a physical address;
   (C)   Upon registration, the Building Official/Zoning Administrator shall
inform applicants of the certificate of compliance requirements; and
   (D)   There shall be no registration fee.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.05 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall lease or rent a rental dwelling unit, unless there is
a valid certificate of compliance issued in the name of the owner for the
specific rental dwelling unit. The certificate shall be issued after
registration and inspection by the Building Official/Zoning Administrator to
determine that each rental dwelling unit complies with the provisions of the
codes and ordinances and applicable state statutes.
   (B)   The Building Official/Zoning Administrator shall inspect the premises
before the certificate of compliance is issued. In the event the owner or
representative refuses to permit an inspection after 30 days’ notice of the
intent to inspect, the owner or representative shall not rent the property
without the certificate of compliance as required. If the owner, representative
or tenant refuse to permit a scheduled inspection, the Building Official/Zoning
Administrator may through the Village Attorney, seek a search warrant to
conduct the inspection.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Building Official/Zoning Administrator shall inspect rental
dwelling units on a three-year rotating basis from the date of issue pursuant
to this chapter or under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   After the initial registration of the rental unit;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complaint from an owner, owner’s agent or
occupant that the premises are believed to be in violation of this chapter. If
the Building Official/Zoning Administrator determines that a complaint was
filed without a factual basis and such inspection is made on a complaint basis,
an inspection fee may be charged to the complainant;
      (3)   Upon receipt of a report or referral from the Police Department,
Fire Department or other public agency; or
      (4)   Upon evidence of an existing ordinance violation observed by the
Building Official/Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The fee for an inspection is $35 per unit per inspection and must be
paid in advance of an inspection. Following a successful inspection, a
certificate of compliance shall be issued.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction:
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
CHAPTER 153: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
153.01   Application of regulations
   
153.02   Locations
   
153.03   Design and construction
   
153.04   Safety precautions
   
153.05   Unnecessary noise
   
153.06   Abatement of violations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All pools, permanent or portable, erected or constructed, used or intended
to be used for swimming, bathing or wading, either above or below ground level,
shall be constructed and maintained in conformity with the regulations and
requirements of this chapter, provided, however, these regulations and
requirements shall not apply to any pool less than 24 inches deep and/or having
a surface area of less than 144 square feet, or 12 feet in the largest
dimension.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 LOCATIONS.
   Swimming pools shall not be erected in the front yard and shall not be
erected closer than five feet to adjoining lot line except on corner lots which
shall require a 15-foot set-back off side street lot line. No swimming pool or
appurtenance thereto shall be erected or constructed on any private or public
easement or within five feet from rear property lines and six feet from
building line of principal building on any lot.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   Swimming pools if installed below grade, shall be designed and constructed
to withstand the water pressure from within when full and to resist the
pressure of all external forces when the pool is empty.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   In the event that the yard space occupied by a swimming pool shall be
provided with lighting facilities to illuminate the area, then the electrical
switch shall be permanently located outside of the principal building. All such
lights shall be shielded to prevent illumination of other than property on
which the pool is located. There shall be no overhead electrical conductors
installed over or within ten feet of any swimming pool. All metal fences,
enclosures or railings near or adjacent to the swimming pool to which bathers
have access, which may become electrically alive as a result of contact with
broken overhead conductors or from any other cause, shall be effectively
grounded.
   (B)   Pumps, filters and other mechanical and electrical equipment shall be
enclosed in such a manner as to be accessible only to authorized persons and
not to bathers. Construction and drainage shall be such as to avoid the
entrance and accumulation of water in the vicinity of electrical equipment and
electrically operated equipment.
   (C)   Every swimming pool other than those pools above exempted shall be
completely surrounded by a wood or chain link fence not less than 48 inches in
height. Wooden fences shall be constructed of vertical boards not exceeding
eight inches in width and openings between such boards shall not be more than
two inches. A dwelling house or accessory building may be used as part of such
enclosure. All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device on the inside of the enclosure for
keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times except that the door of
any dwelling house which forms a part of such enclosure need not be so
equipped. Doors and gates shall be securely locked when premises are vacated
for any period in excess of 24 hours or when the pool is not attended by the
householder or his or her authorized attendant. Horizontally woven wood fences
are not considered acceptable for the purposes of keeping a pool inaccessible.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   There shall be no unnecessary loud noise such as might be made by musical
instruments, shouting, whistling, yelling, singing and the like, so as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any school, place of
worship, office, dwelling and/or any persons in the vicinity.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any part of this chapter shall be abated within ten days after
receiving notice thereof from the Health Officer or other duly appointed
representative of the village. Immediate abatement may be ordered by the
Village President and/or the village police officers in cases of extreme
necessity.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Act
110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as amended, the village establishes
comprehensive zoning regulations providing for the administration, enforcement
and amendment thereof. The complete text of these regulations is laid out in
Ordinance 211, passed June 14, 2017, and is hereby incorporated by reference as
though fully set out in its entirety, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 211, passed 6-14-2017; Ord. 222, passed 7-14-2021; Ord. 226, passed 4-13-
2022; Ord. 229, passed 6-14-2023; Ord. 232, passed 1-10-2024; Ord. 234, passed
2-14-2024; Ord. 236, passed 4-11-2024; Ord. 241, passed 12-11-2024; Ord. 245,
passed 2-12-2025; Ord. 247, passed 9-10-2025; Ord. 248, passed 10-8-2025)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
25       6-23-1954   Granting a gas franchise to Michigan Gas and Electric
                     Company for a period of 30 years
78       9-3-1981    Granting a cable television franchise to Michiana
                     Cablevision Corporation for a period of 15 years
80       10-1-1981   Amending Ordinance 78, the cable television franchise
88       8-1-1985    Granting a gas franchise to Michigan Power Company for a
                     period of 30 years
96       8-10-1988   Granting an electric franchise to Indiana Michigan Power
                     Company for a period of 30 years
122      10-9-1996   Granting a cable television franchise to Michiana
                     Cablevision Corporation for a period of 15 years
208      1-13-2016   Granting a gas franchise to SEMCO Energy Gas Company for a
                     period of 30 years
218      6-12-2019   Granting an electric franchise to Indiana Michigan Power
                     Company for a period of 30 years.
                    
 
TABLE II: REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
182      4-29-2009   Providing for the private sale of certain real property
                     known as Watkins Park by the village to the county
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     The entire length, width and area of the street previously
106      1-8-1992    known as Bridge Street, is hereby vacated, discontinued
                     and abolished
                     The entire length, width and area of the street known as
116      6-9-1993    Chamberlain Street, adjoining Lots 159, 166, 167, 170 and
                     171, and the alley lying between Lots 165 through 172,
                     inclusive, are hereby vacated, discontinued and abolished
                     The entire length, width and area of the alley lying
225      4-13-2022   between Lots 159 through 166, inclusive, are hereby
                     vacated, discontinued and abolished
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
158  1-12-  Amending the zoning map so the following parcel of land is zoned C-1 Commercial
     2005   District: The north one-half of Lot 11, Ryther’s Addition to the village
     6-8-   Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
159  2005   PUD Planned Unit Development District: Part of the southwest quarter of the
            northwest quarter of Section 11, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
     9-14-  Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
162  2005   C-2 Central Business District: Lots 25 through 29, inclusive, and Lots 38
            through 41, inclusive, original plat of the village
            Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
     10-12- rezoned from R-1A Single-Family Residential District to PUD Planned Unit
163  2005   Development District: Commencing 165 feet west of the northeast corner of the
            southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 3, Township 8 South,
            Range 20 West
     10-11- Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
167  2006   PUD Planned Unit Development: Part of the east half of the northeast quarter of
            Section 10, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
     5-9-   Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
168  2007   PUD Planned Unit Development: Part of the northwest quarter of Section 11,
            Township 8 South, Range 20 West
     10-10- Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
173  2007   rezoned as C-2 Central Business District: The south half of Lots 50 and 52,
            plat of part of the village
     10-10- Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
174  2007   rezoned C-1 Commercial District: Lot 1, Block 10, Sherwood’s Addition to the
            village
            Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
181  3-11-  rezoned C-2 Central Business District: Part of Lots 7 and 8, Subdivision of the
     2009   east half of the southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 8 South, Range 20
            West
     7-10-  Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
240  2024   conditionally rezoned C-1 General Commercial District: Part of east half of the
            Northeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
            Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
242  12-11- conditionally rezoned C-1 General Commercial District: Part of Lots 3 and 7,
     2024   subdivision of the east half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 3, Township 8
            South, Range 20 West
     1-8-   Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
243  2025   rezoned MU-2 General Mixed-Use District: Part of the subdivision in the
            Southeast Quarter of Section 3, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
244  1-8-   Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
     2025   rezoned MU-2 General Mixed-Use District: Lots 7 and 8, Friedles Subdivision
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites            Code Section
15.231 et seq.            32.01,
                          51.250
15.261 et seq.            32.01
15.261 through 15.275     151.17
24.201 through 24.328     70.02,
                          71.24
48.801 to 48.813          32.02
                          31.02,
61.1 et seq.              31.03,
                          150.05
62.1                      31.02,
                          31.03
62.2                      31.01
65.8                      31.01
125.31 et seq.            32.01
125.31 through 125.45     32.01
125.401 et seq.           150.21
125.581 et seq            32.01
                          150.01,
125.1501 et seq.          150.02,
                          150.21
125.1501 through 125.1531 150.01,
                          150.02
125.1504d                 115.06
125.1508b(6)              150.01
125.1523(3)               150.99
125.1651 through 125.1680 151.01
125.2307                  152.01
125.3101 et seq.          32.01
125.3801 et seq.          32.01
141.101 through 141.140   51.416,
                          151.33
141.121                   52.10
141.421 to 141.440a       31.01
207.551 et seq.           151.34
207.561                   151.35
207.601 et seq.           151.34
207.606                   151.35
207.651 et seq.           151.34
207.662                   151.35
211.1 et seq.             150.26
213.21 et seq.            151.30
213.321 through 213.332   151.03,
                          151.37
247.401                   70.15
247.402                   70.15
247.403(7)                70.15
                          70.01,
                          71.01,
257.1 through 257.923     71.03,
                          71.17,
                          71.22
257.301 to 257.329        74.02
257.648                   74.03
257.705                   74.03
257.710B                  71.24
287.651 to 287.683        51.002
                          51.001,
324.3101 et seq.          51.002,
                          51.205
324.3103                  51.001
324.3106                  51.001
324.3109                  51.001
                          51.002,
324.11101 et seq.         51.145,
                          51.260
324.11701 et seq.         51.002
324.12101 et seq.         51.002
325.191                   52.40
325.192                   52.40
333.1101 to 333.25211     51.298
333.13801 to 333.13832    51.002
333.16631                 51.298
333.27001                 116.03
333.27954                 116.09
338.2301 et seq.          150.01
339.2501 et seq.          150.21
399.201 et seq.           151.42
436.1 et seq.             93.20
560.101 et seq.           32.01
560.186                   150.40
600.113                   70.99
600.8101 et seq.          72.01
600.8395                  72.01
600.8701 through 600.8735 10.02
712A.2                    130.37
722.673                   110.02,
                          130.15
752.362                   110.02,
                          130.15
764.9a through 764.9e     10.10
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.40 -
1        3-6-1947    91.43,
                     91.99
2        4-3-1947    130.21
3        4-3-1947    130.22,
                     130.99
4        4-3-1947    130.23
6        4-3-1947    130.24
7        4-3-1947    130.20
9        4-3-1947    90.23,
                     90.99
10       4-3-1947    150.41,
                     150.99
11       4-3-1947    92.25,
                     92.99
12       4-3-1947    92.26,
                     92.99
13       4-3-1947    70.17,
                     70.99
16       4-1-1948    Ch. 73, Sch. V
17       4-1-1948    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                     Ch. 73, Schs.
18       6-3-1948    I,
                     VI
-        6-3-1948    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
19       5-5-1949    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     71.01 -
                     71.22,
21       - -1952     71.99,
                     72.20 -
                     72.23,
                     72.99
20       6-5-1952    Ch. 73, Sch. II
                     114.01 -
24       7-2-1953    114.12,
                     114.99
25       6-23-1954   T.S.O. I
27       8-9-1959    52.41,
                     52.99
29       3-2-1961    71.23,
                     71.99
                     153.01 -
30       - -1962     153.06,
                     153.99
31       - -1962     71.26
33       - -1963     150.03,
                     150.04
35       10-3-1963   130.35
                     91.20 -
39       4-14-1966   91.27,
                     91.99
42       4-4-1968    130.36
45       6-5-1969    72.01 -
                     72.06
46       10-2-1969   150.40
51       4-5-1973    71.25,
                     71.99
                     Ch. 73, Schs.
54       5-3-1973    III,
                     IV
55       6-7-1973    52.40
                     53.01 -
58       1-3-1974    53.06,
                     53.99
60       9-5-1974    93.21,
                     93.99
61       10-21-1974  150.03,
                     150.04
                     72.24,
63       8-5-1976    72.99;
                     Ch.73, Sch. I
                     130.01,
64       12-2-1976   130.16 -
                     130.20,
                     130.99
77       8-6-1981    113.01 -
                     113.14
78       9-3-1981    T.S.O. I
80       10-1-1981   T.S.O. I
                     90.01 -
                     90.07,
86       5-2-1985    90.20 -
                     90.22,
                     90.99
88       7-11-1985   T.S.O. I
                     150.01,
94       1-13-1988   150.03,
                     150.04
95       8-10-1988   150.02
96       8-10-1988   T.S.O. I
98       3-8-1989    95.02,
                     95.99
101      11-14-1990  71.24,
                     71.99
                     50.01 -
103      12-12-1990  50.16,
                     50.99
104      1-9-1991    50.11
106      1-8-1992    T.S.O. III
                     112.01 -
110      5-13-1992   112.12,
                     112.99
112      11-11-1992  95.01,
                     95.99
114      4-14-1993   50.10,
                     50.13
115      4-14-1993   112.04
116      6-9-1993    T.S.O. III
117      10-13-1993  113.25 -
                     113.42
                     50.99, 51.99,
                     71.99,
                     72.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
119      4-12-1995   92.99,
                     93.99,
                     95.99,
                     112.99,
                     130.99,
                     150.99,
                     153.99
120      3-13-1996   30.01
122      10-9-1996   T.S.O. I
                     150.20 -
123      5-14-1997   150.27,
                     150.99
                     91.01 -
124      5-14-1997   91.05,
                     91.99
125      5-14-1997   130.37,
                     130.99
                     111.01 -
126      5-14-1997   111.10,
                     111.99
127      4-8-1998    71.26
132      5-12-1999   93.20
133      6-9-1999    93.20
134      8-11-1999   32.02
137      9-13-2000   150.05
138      11-8-2000   31.03
140      6-13-2001   130.15,
                     130.99
147      5-19-2004   33.01 -
                     33.18
149      5-19-2004   130.18
153      5-19-2004   31.01
                     52.25 -
155      5-19-2004   52.29,
                     52.99
156      5-19-2004   34.01 -
                     34.20
                     92.01 -
157      1-12-2005   92.11,
                     92.99
158      1-12-2005   T.S.O. IV
159      6-8-2005    T.S.O. IV
161      7-13-2005   70.15,
                     70.99
162      9-4-2005    T.S.O. IV
163      10-12-2005  T.S.O. IV
164      11-9-2005   92.04
165      11-10-2005  70.01
166      4-12-2006   70.02
167      10-11-2006  T.S.O. IV
168      5-9-2007    T.S.O. IV
                     33.02,
                     33.04,
169      5-9-2007    33.05,
                     33.09,
                     33.11
173      10-10-2007  T.S.O. IV
174      10-10-2007  T.S.O. IV
178      11-20-2008  31.01
                     52.01 -
179      2-25-2009   52.12,
                     52.99
180      2-25-2009   51.23, 51.31
181      3-11-2009   T.S.O. IV
182      4-29-2009   T.S.O. II
                     50.30 -
184      8-12-2009   50.35,
                     50.99
                     110.01 -
                     110.03,
                     110.15 -
185      11-11-2009  110.22,
                     110.35 -
                     110.43,
                     110.99
186      4-14-2010   93.20
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
187      7-14-2010   151.15 -
                     151.19,
                     151.30 -
                     151.42
189      10-13-2010  93.01 -
                     93.05
190      12-8-2010   52.03
191      5-11-2011   33.03
193      6-8-2011    150.01,
                     150.99
194      6-8-2011    32.01
196      12-14-2011  52.02
                     152.01 -
198      5-9-2012    152.06,
                     152.99
199      12-12-2012  151.15
200      4-10-2013   70.15,
                     70.99
                     94.01 -
202      7-10-2013   94.16,
                     94.99
204      8-13-2014   91.03
205      7-8-2015    93.01
                     92.35 -
206      11-11-2015  92.50,
                     92.99
207      11-11-2015  93.01
208      1-13-2016   T.S.O. I
                     115.01 -
210      6-14-2017   115.06,
                     115.99
211      6-14-2017   154.01
213      10-11-2017  52.03
214      12-12-2018  95.01
215      12-12-2018  115.99
218      6-12-2019   T.S.O. I
220      3-10-2021   151.15
222      7-14-2021   154.01
                     96.01 -
223      7-14-2021   96.11,
                     96.99
224      8-11-2021   52.03
225      4-13-2022   T.S.O. III
226      4-13-2022   154.01
227      12-14-2022  93.02
228      3-8-2023    115.03
229      6-14-2023   154.01
                     51.001,
                     51.002,
                     51.010 -
                     51.018,
                     51.030 -
                     51.043,
                     51.060 -
                     51.063,
                     51.080,
                     51.090 -
                     51.095,
                     51.110 -
                     51.125,
                     51.140 -
                     51.150,
                     51.170 -
                     51.181,
                     51.200 -
                     51.208,
230      8-9-2023    51.220,
                     51.221,
                     51.240 -
                     51.243,
                     51.250,
                     51.260,
                     51.270,
                     51.271,
                     51.290 -
                     51.299,
                     51.310 -
                     51.324,
                     51.340 -
                     51.345,
                     51.360,
                     51.370,
                     51.380,
                     51.390 -
                     51.394,
                     51.410 -
                     51.416
232      1-10-2024   154.01
234      2-14-2024   154.01
                     116.01 -
235      2-28-2024   116.10,
                     116.99
236      4-11-2024   154.01
                     74.01 -
237      4-10-2024   74.04,
                     74.99
238      4-11-2024   92.03
240      7-10-2024   T.S.O. IV
241      12-11-2024  154.01
242      12-11-2024  T.S.O. IV
243      1-8-2025    T.S.O. IV
244      1-8-2025    T.S.O. IV
245      2-12-2025   154.01
246      3-12-2025   71.26
247      9-10-2025   154.01
248      10-8-2025   154.01
                    
 
 
