TOWN OF FLAGLER, COLORADO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 200, passed 6-10-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Code alterations
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Court proceedings
   
10.08   Severability clause
   
10.09   Construction of words
   
10.10   Definitions, general
   
10.11   Catchlines
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court, see
Chapter 34
   Utilities, see
Chapter 50
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this code is declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official code of the town. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the “Flagler Town Code,” and it is
published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be kept up to date as
provided in §
10.03. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading and to the general penalty clause relating thereto; as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   This code, as presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received without
further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this state
as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.05.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Town Board. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Clerk/Treasurer. Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of
this code shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and
efficient manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to
him or her through the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the
Clerk/Treasurer when directed to do so by order of the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this code
are repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the town; and all special
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities,
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, except as this code may contain provisions for such matters;
in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.07 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done; any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred; or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the town
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision, nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
town under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.08 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code
or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or
any part thereof. The Town Board of Trustees declares that it would have passed
each section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 10.09 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   (B)   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this code to “title,” “chapter,” “section” and/or
“division” or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town’s ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.10 DEFINITIONS, GENERAL.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred either
expressly or impliedly to do so.
   BOARD. Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the town.
Sometimes referred to as “Town Council.”
   CODE. The Town Code of Flagler, Colorado, and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY. The County of Kit Carson, State of Colorado.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, “of the
Town of Flagler.”
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR. Mayor of the Town of Flagler.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense other than a felony, as classified in C.R.S. § 18-
1.3-501.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the Town of
Flagler.”
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities directly to the consumer.
   STATE. The State of Colorado.
   STREET. Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TOWN. The Town of Flagler, County of Kit Carson, State of Colorado.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is unable to write, by
his or her proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.11 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section thereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person convicted of a violation of any section or
provision of this code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished
by a fine, which amount shall be as set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this code, the Town Attorney may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this section shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Liability of officers. No provision of this code designating the
duties of any officer or any employee shall be so construed as to make such
officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to
perform such duty, unless the intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such
fine or penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly
expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see C.R.S. § 31-16-101
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
34.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
30.01   Elections; terms of office; vacancies
   
30.02   Powers of Mayor
   
30.03   Meetings of the Board
   
30.04   Public participation at Board meetings
   
30.05   Procedure for additional dialogue between Board and citizens
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Election; terms of office.
      (1)   Board of Trustees. At the next regular election, six trustees shall
be elected. The three candidates receiving the highest number of votes shall be
elected for four-year terms, and the three candidates for trustee receiving the
next highest number of votes shall be elected for two-year terms. At the next
subsequent regular election and at each regular election thereafter, three
trustees shall be elected to serve four-year terms.
      (2)   Mayor. At the next regular election and at the regular election
every four years thereafter, a mayor shall be elected to serve a four-year
term.
   (B)   Vacancies. The Board of Trustees has the power, by appointment, to
fill all vacancies in the Board or any other office, and the person so
appointed shall hold his or her office until the next regular election and
until his or her successor is elected and has complied with state statute. The
Board also has the power to fill a vacancy in the Board or in any other
elective office of the town by ordering an election to fill the vacancy until
the next regular election. If a vacancy in the Board or in such other elective
office is not filled by appointment or an election is not ordered within 60
days after the vacancy occurs, the Board shall order an election, subject to
the Municipal Election Code, being C.R.S. §§ 31-10-101 to 31-10-1540, to be
held as soon as practicable to fill the vacancy until the next regular
election.
   (C)   Removal of officers. By a majority vote of all members of the Board of
Trustees, the Mayor, the Clerk/Treasurer, any member of the Board or any other
officer of the town may be removed from office. However, no such removal shall
be made without a charge in writing and an opportunity of hearing being given
unless the officer against whom the charge is made has moved out of the limits
of the town. Any charge for removal of an officer shall be based upon
reasonable grounds to believe that such officer has been involved in official
misconduct, such misconduct as affects the performance of the officer’s duties.
When any officer ceases to reside within the limits of the town, he or she may
be removed from office pursuant to this code. A municipal judge may be removed
during his or her term of office only for cause, as set forth in C.R.S. § 13-
10-105(2).
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 107, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 30.02 POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Tie vote. The Mayor shall not be entitled to vote on any matter before
the Board, except in the case of a tie vote.
   (B)   Ordinances and resolutions.
      (1)   Any ordinance adopted by the Board and all resolutions authorizing
the expenditure of money or the entering into of a contract shall be subject to
disapproval by the Mayor as provided by law and, accordingly, any such
ordinance or resolution shall have the approval and signature of the Mayor
before they become valid except as provided herein.
      (2)   Any ordinance and all resolutions authorizing the expenditure of
money or the entering into of a contract, after adoption by the Board, shall be
presented to the Mayor within 48 hours after such adoption for his or her
signature approving the same. If he or she disapproves, he or she shall return
such ordinance or resolution to the Board at its next regular meeting with his
or her objections in writing, and the Board shall cause such objections to be
entered at large upon the record and shall proceed at the same or next
subsequent meeting to consider the question: “Shall the ordinance or
resolution, notwithstanding the Mayor’s objections, be passed?” If two-thirds
of the members elected to the Board vote in the affirmative, such resolutions
shall be valid and such ordinance shall become law the same as if it had been
approved by the Mayor. If the Mayor fails to return to the next subsequent
meeting of the Board any resolution or ordinance presented to him or her for
his or her approval, the same shall become a valid ordinance or resolution, as
the case may be, in like manner as if it had been approved by the Mayor.
      (3)   This division (B) may be repealed only within 60 days preceding any
election of a mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 116, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be at those times as
established by resolution of the Board. The meeting times shall be published
and posted in such a manner as to comply with state law and to give the
citizens of the town adequate and legal notice of meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 2, passed 4-9-1917)
§ 30.04 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AT BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Public discussion period. The Board shall schedule a period of time
during each public meeting for public participation. The length of time
scheduled for public discussion shall be stated in the agenda posted prior to
the meeting. The Mayor of the town shall be the presiding officer at all Board
meetings and shall be responsible for maintaining proper order and decorum.
Members of the public shall not be recognized by the Mayor as the Board
conducts its official business except when the Board declares an interim public
discussion period on a particular agenda item.
   (B)   Rules concerning public participation.
      (1)   Any written or printed material desired to be circulated at a Board
meeting by a member of the public must be submitted to the Town Clerk/Treasurer
by the close of business on the Thursday preceding the Board meeting. Such
written or printed material shall then be included in the packet to be given to
the Board members for consideration.
      (2)   Citizens of the town, employees of the town, individuals who have
been requested to attend the meeting by the Mayor and nonresidents of the town
who have timely requested and received the permission of the Board, or a member
thereof, to address the Board, shall all be eligible to address the Town Board
at a regular or special meeting.
      (3)   A person wishing to speak, who is not listed on the agenda or
addressing an agenda item, shall raise his or her hand during the public
audience section and be recognized by the presiding officer. The person shall
state his or her name and announce the subject on which he or she wishes to
speak. If the Board deems that the subject requires more discussion prior to
taking action, such item may be continued to the next available regular
meeting. No person shall speak for more than five minutes unless the time limit
is waived by the presiding officer. The speaking time may be shortened by the
presiding officer if the length of the agenda or the number of requested
speakers mandates a shortening of the time.
      (4)   A person wishing to address the Board concerning an agenda item
shall also raise his or her hand and be recognized by the presiding officer
prior to speaking. The person shall state his or her name and identify the
agenda item or items which he or she wishes to address. While the identified
person may address one or more agenda items, such person shall not speak for
more than five minutes on any particular agenda item unless such limit is
waived by the presiding officer. The speaking time may be shortened by the
presiding officer if the length of the agenda or the number of requested
speakers mandates a shortening of the time.
      (5)   Undue interruption, defamatory or abusive remarks or other
unreasonable interference with the orderly conduct of the Board meeting will
not be allowed. Any person who disturbs the good order of the meeting by undue
interruption, defamatory or abusive remarks or other disruptive action shall be
requested to cease and desist from such action, and if such person persists in
such action, shall be removed from the meeting by the sergeant at arms. Any
personal approval or disapproval of action taken by the Board during the
meeting may be indicated during the hearing portion of the meeting, but it is
requested that there be no applause or loud dissent voiced during the meeting.
      (6)   All charges, complaints or challenges relating to the actions of a
Board member, town officer or town employee are to be presented to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer, in writing, and signed by the complainant. Such complaints
shall be investigated by the Town Marshal or Town Manager, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4) (Ord. 136, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 30.05 PROCEDURE FOR ADDITIONAL DIALOGUE BETWEEN BOARD AND CITIZENS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish an additional procedure
and time to allow residents meaningful contact with elected Town Board members.
In addition to contact by telephone and at regular and special Town Board
meetings, the Board wishes to establish a procedure by which residents may meet
periodically, by appointment, with two Board members to discuss general town
policy or general town matters. By establishing a means for such contact, the
Board wishes to create a situation in which employees may more efficiently
perform their duties and Board members avoid potential problems by discouraging
certain contact between persons and employees at the employees’ homes during
the nonworking hours of such employees, and by discouraging contact between
persons and Town Board members at the Board members’ homes and places of
employment and business.
      (2)   This section is not intended to discourage persons from contacting
Town Board members in reference to emergency situations or day-to-day matters,
including the reporting of loss of town services, billing questions, matters
involving law or ordinance enforcement reporting and other general
administrative matters. Further, this section is not intended to apply to
contacts between persons and Town Board members and town employees which take
place, during or after business hours, by telephone.
   (B)   Procedure for discussion by appointment.
      (1)   Town residents are encouraged to continue to attend all regular and
special Board meetings and to continue to contact Board members by telephone
during reasonable hours to discuss matters of importance to the residents. Any
person desiring to discuss town policy, or to register complaints, ask
questions or otherwise discuss general town matters with Town Board members and
who do not wish to have such contact by telephone, during Town Board meetings,
or during other scheduled public events, or who wish to have contact with Board
members in addition to that set forth above, may contact either the Town
Manager or Town Clerk/Treasurer and request to have an appointment with two
Board members. Such request shall include a written listing of the issue or
issues to be discussed. Such meeting shall be set promptly at a time convenient
for the town resident or residents and Board members.
      (2)   Any meeting scheduled pursuant to this section shall be held at the
Town Hall located at 311 Main Avenue, Flagler, Colorado. The length of the
meeting shall be such time as is reasonably required to hear the resident’s
questions and concerns and to discuss the matter thoroughly. The meeting shall
be terminated by the Board members when the Board members determine that the
issue has been thoroughly discussed or if the discussion has become repetitive,
abusive or overly argumentative. Meetings with any particular person may not
exceed one time per month without good cause being shown by the requesting
person. Such meetings shall be informal and no policy may be adopted or changed
nor may any other action be taken at such informal meetings. The meetings are
strictly for informal discussion.
   (C)   Town policy concerning home or business/employment contact. Any person
who contacts, in person, a Town Board member at his or her personal residence
or place of business or employment and who attempts to discuss general town
policy or general town matters, or any person who personally contacts a town
employee at his or her residence, after such employee’s working hours, to
discuss general town policy or general town matters, shall be advised of the
above described meeting policy and may be requested to leave the property or
premises. Failure to leave the property or premises after being requested to do
so by the Town Board member or town employee may result in the bringing of
trespass charges or other relevant charges against the person.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5) (Ord. 135, passed 5-11-1998)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Compensation
   
31.02   Appointment of town officers
   
31.03   Federal Social Security Act
§ 31.01 COMPENSATION.
   The following officers and employees hereinafter named shall receive the
following compensation to be paid monthly.
   (A)   Town Marshal. The Town Marshal shall receive all fees due him or her
by virtue of any proceeding under ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Town Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall receive overtime
wages for a meeting if the meeting causes him or her to accumulate over 40
hours in a regular work week.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 1, passed 4-9-1917)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF TOWN OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a clerk/treasurer, town attorney and
such other officers, including a town administrator, manager and building
inspector, code enforcement officer or other officers as it may deem necessary
for the good government of the town. The appointments shall be made, or
renewed, on the first regular meeting following a regular municipal election.
The duties of those officers required to be appointed by state statute shall
include the following.
   (A)   Town Clerk/Treasurer. The Clerk/Treasurer, who may be the same person,
shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and make a true and accurate
record of all the proceedings, rules and ordinances made and passed by the
Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may supplement the Clerk/Treasurer’s
duties by written job description.
   (B)   Town Marshal. The Town Marshal shall have the same power that Sheriffs
have by law, coextensive with the county in cases of violation of town
ordinances, for offenses committed within the limits of the town. The Board of
Trustees may supplement the Marshal’s duties by written job description.
   (C)   Town Attorney. The Town Attorney shall attend town meetings when
requested by the Board of Trustees, shall keep the Board of Trustees and other
appointed officers informed as to changes in the law and shall render such
legal advice and services as requested by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Other appointed officers. The Board of Trustees shall adopt a job
description for any appointed town officers not described or required by state
statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 31.03 FEDERAL SOCIAL SECURITY ACT.
   (A)   Coverage. The town is authorized to execute and deliver to the State
Department of Employment Security a plan and agreement necessary to extend
coverage of the federal old age and survivors’ insurance system to the
employees of the town, which plan and agreement is required in § 5 of House
Bill No. 291, 38th General Assembly, being the enabling act, and the federal
Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 7, as amended, and to do all other
necessary things to effectuate said coverage.
   (B)   Payroll deduction. The Town Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to establish
a system of payroll deduction under which contributions of town employees,
whose services are covered by the said plan and agreement, are deducted from
wages and salaries, charged to the fund or funds from which wage and salary
payments are issued to town employees, and paid into the Contribution Fund in
accordance with the provisions of the said enabling act.
   (C)   Appropriation for participation. Appropriation is made from the proper
fund or funds of the town in the necessary amount to pay into the Contribution
Fund as provided in the said enabling act and in accordance with the plan and
agreement.
   (D)   Authority to enter into agreement. Authority is given to the Mayor and
the Town Clerk/Treasurer to enter into an agreement with the State Department
of Employment Security, which agreement shall be in accordance with the said
House Bill No. 291 and with paragraph 218 of the Social Security Act. Such plan
and agreement shall provide that the participation of the town shall be in
effect as of January 1, 1951.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 68A, passed 10-8-1951)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Write in candidates
   
32.02   Cancellation of election
§ 32.01 WRITE IN CANDIDATES.
   No write in votes for any municipal office at any municipal elections of the
town shall be counted unless an affidavit of intent has been filed with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer (C.R.S. § 31-10-306) prior to 64 days before the election
by a person whose name is written in indicating that such a person desires the
office and is qualified to assume the duties of that elected office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 121, passed 2-14-2000; Res. 164, passed 2-9-2026)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see C.R.S. § 31-10-306
§ 32.02 CANCELLATION OF ELECTION.
   If, at any municipal election of the town, the only matter before the voters
is the election of persons to office, and if, at the close of business (C.R.S.
§ 31-10-507) on the sixty-fourth day before the election, there are not more
candidates than offices to be filled at such election, including candidates
filing affidavits of intent, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall certify such fact
to the Board of Trustees of the town, and the Board shall hold a meeting and
may cancel the election and by resolution declare the candidates elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 121, passed 2-14-2000; Res. 164, passed 2-9-2026)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see C.R.S. § 31-20-507
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purchases and sales
   
33.02   Fiscal year
Municipal Sales Tax
   
33.15   Purpose
   
33.16   Definitions
   
33.17   Sales tax levied
   
33.18   Collection and schedules of sales tax
   
33.19   Exemptions
   
33.20   General provisions for sales tax
   
33.21   Vendor’s fee
   
33.22   Amendments
   
33.23   Effective date of sales tax
 
   
33.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.01 PURCHASES AND SALES.
   (A)   Purchasing procedure.
      (1)   No purchase of materials, equipment or supplies for the town, or
any of its agencies or departments, shall be made, or contract for such
purchase entered into, by the Board of Trustees, where purchase or contract
calls for an expenditure of more than the amount set by the Board of Trustees
from time to time, until a report shall be made as to the necessity or
advisability thereof.
      (2)   Purchases of materials, equipment or supplies for the town, or any
of its agencies or departments, where purchase price does not exceed the amount
set by the Board of Trustees from time to time, shall be approved by the Board
of Trustees and payments made therefor.
   (B)   Illegal purchases. No officer, agent, employee or other person
whomsoever shall have power or authority to purchase materials, equipment or
supplies for the town, its agencies or departments, or contract therefor in the
name of or in behalf of the town, except as in this section provided, and all
purchases not made in accordance herewith are declared absolutely illegal, void
and not binding on the town.
   (C)   Sales. All sales of equipment, materials or supplies by the town shall
be under the charge and supervision of the Board of Trustees in like manner as
is above provided with reference to purchases.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 27, passed 1-30-1922) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the town shall commence on January 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2) (Ord. 13, passed 11-1-1917)
**** MUNICIPAL SALES TAX ****
§ 33.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a sales tax on the sale of
tangible personal property at retail and the furnishing of services within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the meanings of words herein contained
shall be as defined in C.R.S. § 39-26-102, as amended, and said definitions are
incorporated herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.17 SALES TAX LEVIED.
   There is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax equal to 2% of
gross receipts from all sales of tangible personal property at retail and the
furnishing of services within the town. The sales of tangible personal property
and the furnishing of services taxable under this subchapter shall be the same
as those taxable pursuant to C.R.S. § 39-26-104, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.18 COLLECTION AND SCHEDULES OF SALES TAX.
   (A)   Collection. The collection, administration and enforcement of this
sales tax shall be performed by the Executive Director of the State Department
of Revenue (hereinafter the “Executive Director”) in the same manner as the
collection, administration and enforcement of the state sales tax. The
provisions of C.R.S. Title 39, Article 26, as amended, and all rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder by the Executive Director shall govern the
collection, administration and enforcement of this sales tax.
   (B)   Schedules. The sales tax on individual sales levied by this subchapter
shall be collected in accordance with schedules set forth in the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Executive Director under C.R.S. Title 29,
Article 2 or Title 39, Article 26, as amended. If any vendor, during any
reporting period, shall collect as a sales tax under this subchapter an amount
in excess of 2% of his or her total taxable sales for that period, he or she
shall remit to the Executive Director the full amount of this sales tax and
also such excess.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The sales of tangible personal property and the furnishing of services
taxable under this subchapter shall be subject to the exemptions from taxation
specified in C.R.S. §§ 39-26-701 et seq., as amended, including the exemption
for residential light, heat and power, and including the exemption for certain
machinery purchases. It is the intent hereof that the exemption for sales of
food for home consumption not be an exemption under this subchapter.
   (B)   All sales of personal property on which a specific ownership tax has
been paid or is payable shall be exempt from this sales tax when such sales
meet both of the following conditions:
      (1)   The purchaser is a nonresident of or has his or her principal place
of business outside the corporate limits of the town; and
      (2)   Such personal property is registered or required to be registered
outside the corporate limits of the town under the laws of the state.
   (C)   The value of construction and building materials on which a use tax
has previously been collected by an incorporated town shall be exempt from this
sales tax if the materials are delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to
a site within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SALES TAX.
   (A)   All retail sales shall be considered consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to a destination outside the
corporate limits of the town or to a common carrier for delivery to a
destination outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax imposed by C.R.S. Title 39,
Article 26, as amended, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
Gross receipts shall not include the state sales and use tax imposed by C.R.S.
Title 39, Article 26, as amended.
   (C)   In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the town
or more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated for the purpose of this sales tax shall be determined by
the provisions of C.R.S. Title 39, Article 26, as amended, and by the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder by the Executive Directors.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-6) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.21 VENDOR’S FEE.
   (A)   The vendor shall be entitled, as the collection agent for the town, to
withhold a collection fee in the amount of 3.3% from the total amount of the
sales tax remitted by the vendor to the Executive Director.
   (B)   If any vendor is delinquent in remitting said tax, other than in
unusual circumstances shown to the satisfaction of the Executive Director, this
vendor shall not be allowed to retain any amounts to cover his or her expense
in collecting and remitting said tax, and an amount equivalent to the full 3.3%
shall be remitted to the Executive Director by any such delinquent vendor.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-7) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.22 AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Board of Trustees may amend, alter or change this subchapter,
except as to the 2% rate of sales and use taxes herein imposed, subsequent to
its adoption. Such amendment, alteration or change need not be submitted to the
registered electors of the town for their approval.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-8) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.23 EFFECTIVE DATE OF SALES TAX.
   Upon adoption of this subchapter and subsequent approval of the sales tax by
the registered electors of the town, the sales tax shall apply to all retail
sales, unless exempt, made on or after January 1, 1990.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-9) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
33.15 through
33.23 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-10) (Ord. 127, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
34.01   Created
   
34.02   Jurisdiction, powers; procedures
   
34.03   Judges
   
34.04   Court Clerk
   
34.05   Assessment of court costs
§ 34.01 CREATED.
   A municipal court, in and for the town, is created and established as
provided by C.R.S. § 13-10-104, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1) (Ord. 96, passed 2-11-1971)
§ 34.02 JURISDICTION, POWERS; PROCEDURES.
   The Municipal Court shall have such jurisdiction as is conferred upon it by
law and shall hear and try all alleged violations of ordinance provisions of
the town. The procedures of the Municipal Court shall be in accordance with
rules promulgated by the State Supreme Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2) (Ord. 96, passed 2-11-1971)
§ 34.03 JUDGES.
   (A)   Appointment. The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a municipal
judge appointed for a term of two years by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
Additional or assistant judges may be appointed as may be necessary to act in
case of the temporary absence, sickness, disqualification or other inability of
the presiding Municipal Judge to act, and in such case, appointment shall be
made by resolution of the Board of Trustees for a term of two years and the
resolution shall designate the Municipal Judge as presiding judge.
   (B)   Salary. The salary of the Municipal Judge and of any additional or
assistant judge or judges shall be paid on such basis and in an amount provided
by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Oath. Before assuming the duties of his or her office, a Municipal
Judge shall make an oath or affirmation that he or she will support the
Constitution of the United States and of the state and will faithfully perform
the duties of his or her office.
   (D)   Rule making power. In addition to other powers, a Municipal Judge
shall have authority to adopt and issue local rules of procedure consistent
with any rules of procedure adopted by the State Supreme Court and as approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3) (Ord. 96, passed 2-11-1971)
§ 34.04 COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Office established. The position of clerk of the Municipal Court is
established. The municipal judge or presiding municipal judge may serve as ex
officio clerk, or may appoint a person to serve as such clerk. The Clerk shall
have such duties as are delegated to him or her by law, rule of court and by
the Municipal Judge or presiding Municipal Judge.
   (B)   Salary. The salary of the Municipal Court Clerk shall be paid on such
basis and in an amount provided by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Bond. The Municipal Court Clerk and the Municipal Judge, if he or she
serves as ex officio Clerk, shall give a performance bond in an amount as set
by the Board of Trustees from time to time to the town, and said bond shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon the Municipal Court
Clerk’s faithful performance of his or her duties and the faithful accounting
of all funds received by the court.
   (D)   Reports. The Municipal Court Clerk shall file monthly reports with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer of all funds collected by him or her as Clerk of the
Court, and on the last day of each month, he or she shall pay to the proper
official all such funds in his or her hands.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4) (Ord. 96, passed 2-11-1971)
§ 34.05 ASSESSMENT OF COURT COSTS.
   The Municipal Judge shall maintain a schedule with a listing of the fines
and costs that be assessed against any defendant who pleads guilty or nolo
contendere or who enters into a plea agreement, or who, after trial, is found
guilty of an ordinance violation of the town. The schedule will be in
accordance with any prevailing state law concerning costs and assessment of
fines.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   WASTEWATER SYSTEM
      
52.   GROUND WATER PROTECTION
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Administration
   
50.02   Inspection
Water, Sewer and Trash Billing
   
50.15   Billing procedures
   
50.16   Price structure for service and fee charges
   
50.17   Billing procedures and collection process
   
50.18   Utility service or equipment rental deposit
Water
   
50.30   Metering of water
   
50.31   Service lines
   
50.32   Waste of water prohibited
   
50.33   Contract and consent
 
   
50.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Manager shall be responsible for the management of the town’s water
supply system, and the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for the
issuance/collection of service applications and for the billing and collection
of all fees and charges for such service, all in accordance with the direction
of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 50.02 INSPECTION.
   Whenever, in the judgment of the Town Manager, it is deemed necessary, he or
she may inspect the premises of any water user for the purpose of determining
the condition of pipes, meters and other fixtures with a view to detecting and
eliminating violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
50.99
**** WATER, SEWER AND TRASH ****
§ 50.15 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For all new accounts whereby new water and sewer taps are newly
installed, the Town Clerk/Treasurer must receive payment in full for water and
sewer tap fees and associated fees, prior to water being turned on. The
approved building permit shall accompany application for service, for filing.
   (B)   Water meters shall be read monthly as closely to the end of the month
as possible and mailed out as soon as administratively possible thereafter.
Bills for water, sewer and trash will be due and payable upon receipt, with a
maximum of 10% late charge added on the twentieth of the month if account has
not been paid. If account is not paid by the end of the month, water service
will be discontinued until full payment is received on the account, plus
connection fee. Should an account become delinquent and deemed uncollectable by
the Town Clerk/Treasurer, a tax lien on the property pursuant C.R.S. §§ 31-35-
617 and 31-15-302, or by small claims court, with the guidance of the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 50.16 PRICE STRUCTURE FOR SERVICE AND FEE CHARGES.
   (A)   The town, through the Board of Trustees, may update water, sewer,
trash and other rates in this section by adopting a resolution.
   (B)   The following rates shall be charged by the town to property owners as
follows.
Connection deposit and re-connection fee $200 and $25
Sewer - monthly rates
Commercial                               $50.30
Commercial assisted living center        $98.49
Commercial 3                             $68.45
Industrial                               $194
Industrial (school)                      $594
Multiple-family                          $87.49
Residential accounts and churches        $29.73
Trailer courts and motels greater than 5 $86.60
Trailer courts and motels less than 5    $44.25
Sewer-tap fees                           Cost of materials + $830
Trash - monthly rates
Business low volume                      $35 service schedule: 2 x week
Business medium volume                   $65 service schedule: 2 x week
Business high volume                     $98 service schedule: 2 x week
Residential inside incorporated town     $30 service schedule: 1 x week
limits and within 1 mile of town limits
1 to 5 miles outside incorporated town limits - monthly rates
3 yard dumpster                          $40 service schedule: 1 x month
6 yard dumpster                          $60 service schedule: 1 x month
8 yard dumpster                          $90 service schedule: 1 x month
Dumpster rental                          $20
Water - monthly rates
Town non-residents                       $50 per first 3,000 gallons
Town non-residents                       $3.75 per 1,000 gallons after first
                                         3,000
Town residents and businesses            $37 per first 3,000 gallons
Town residents and businesses            $3.25 per 1,000 gallons after first
                                         3,000
Water-tap fees                           Cost of materials + $830
 
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022; Res. 153, passed 4-14-2025; Res. 163, passed 1-12-
2026)
§ 50.17 BILLING PROCEDURES AND COLLECTION PROCESS.
   (A)   Water bills will be mailed the first week of each month for service in
arrears in accordance to rates approved by resolution of Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Water bills will be due monthly no later than the twentieth of each
month.
   (C)   Balances not paid by the twentieth will incur a late charge of 10%.
   (D)   Past due notices will be sent out before the end of the month.
   (E)   Account balances not paid by the first of the month following will
receive a notice for disconnection giving a seven-day notice on payment due and
that if payment is not made in full or payment of 50% of the account balance
with payment arrangements for the remaining agreed to by the Town Manager have
not been made within these seven days, then service will be disconnected.
   (F)   In addition, in the event of a delinquency, all amounts due shall
become a lien against such property, lot, block or parcel of land associated
with and benefitting from said services, and said lien shall have priority over
all liens or encumbrances except for general taxes, prior special assessments
or otherwise as provided by applicable law. Each amount due pursuant to any
such delinquency, plus 10% added to defray the administrative cost of
collection and any actual cost to file and remove a lien, may be certified by
the Town Clerk/Treasurer to the County Treasurer and placed upon the tax list
for the current year, and thereby collected in the same manner as real property
taxes are customarily collected. The recovery of amounts due pursuant to the
use of these lien provisions shall be supplementary and in addition to any
other collection procedures or remedies as otherwise provided for or available
by law, in equity or pursuant to the town code or ordinances. In addition, the
foregoing provisions shall be deemed a part of and included in any contract
entered into between the town or its subdivisions and any customer accepting or
benefitting from services provided by the town, and all such customers shall be
deemed to have agreed and expressly consented to be bound by said provisions.
   (G)   Water bills may be changed to the name of the tenant living at the
property. The owner may still receive a copy of the tenant bill and any past
due notices as necessary. The owner only or his or her legally authorized agent
shall be held responsible for water service charges, regardless of tenant
billing or delivery of bill to the tenant of the property.
   (H)   Balances owed to the town will also be subject to collection
procedures and may be turned over to the town’s collection attorney in the
attempt to collect the debt.
(Res. 133, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 50.18 UTILITY SERVICE OR EQUIPMENT RENTAL DEPOSIT.
   (A)   A utility service or equipment rental deposit of $200 shall be
required for all new utility service accounts and, under specific conditions,
for existing accounts, as outlined herein.
   (B)   The deposit shall be held by the town until such time as the customer
has established a satisfactory payment history, typically defined as 12
consecutive months of on-time payments, after which the deposit shall be
refunded without interest as determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   In the event of account closure, the deposit shall be applied to any
outstanding balance, with any remaining funds refunded to the customer.
   (D)   A equipment rental fee of $20 shall be charged to all customers
renting a dumpster.
   (E)   A water tap fee in the amount of cost plus $830 shall be charged for
all new connections to the town’s water system.
(Res. 155, passed 7-14-2025)
**** WATER ****
§ 50.30 METERING OF WATER.
   All water sold by the town shall be metered by meters which may be installed
either in a curb box or inside the building, at the option of the Town Manager.
All water meters shall be owned and kept in repair by the town.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 SERVICE LINES.
   No more than one building shall be permitted to use a water service line.
All service lines shall be
constructed in accordance with town standards. No line shall be bedded or
backfilled until inspected by the Town Manager. The tap on the town water main
shall be made with an approved watertight saddle by a plumber approved by the
town. No bleeding of the water lines is permitted. Maintenance of water service
lines shall be the responsibility of individual customers, not the town, and
all service lines shall be installed at a depth at least four and one-half feet
below the surface of the ground. Each service line shall contain a stop and
waste cock where the water may be turned off.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   Water users shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. In addition to the penalty provided
herein for violation of this chapter, the water supply may be turned off where
any such waste occurs.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 CONTRACT AND CONSENT.
   All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of a
contract of every user of water supplied by the town, and every such user shall
be considered as having expressly consented to be bound thereby.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the rules and regulation enacted by this
chapter shall, upon such conviction, be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$500 for each violation.
(Ord. 198, passed 7-11-2022)
CHAPTER 51: WASTEWATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Purpose and policy
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Qualified Maintenance Manager
   
51.04   Individual wastewater disposal systems
   
51.05   Service
   
51.06   Connection and installation of system
   
51.07   Costs and charges
   
51.08   Prohibitions and limitations on wastewater discharge
   
51.09   Authority of inspectors
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   These rules and regulations set forth uniform requirements for
users of the publicly-owned treatment works for the town wastewater system and
enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., with subsequent amendments.
      (2)   The objectives of these rules and regulations are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-
owned treatment works, hereinafter referred to as POTW, which would interfere
with its operation;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that
would pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or
otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
         (c)   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
         (d)   To enable the town to comply with any and all federal or state
laws to which the POTW is subject; and
         (e)   To enable the town to control the right to any use of the sewage
system by conditional grants of permission which are subject to future
conditions, suspension and revocation.
   (B)   These rules and regulations shall apply to all users of the POTW.
These rules and regulations authorize the issuance of wastewater connection
permits; establish conditions for service; provide for enforcement activities;
establish administrative procedures; and provide for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and subsequent amendments, including the Clean Water
Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory methods of
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter).
   BIOCIDES. Those chemical compounds commonly known as herbicides, fungicides,
rodenticides, insecticides or bactericides.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the utility or
other place of disposal.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any point of a
user’s service connection.
   CDPS or COLORADO DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM. The program for issuing,
conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from point
sources into surface water of the state under conditions of the delegation of
authority to administer a state water quality control program pursuant to § 402
of the Act.
   COLLECTION LINE. The portion of the wastewater treatment system which
collects and transmits wastewater from users to the wastewater treatment plant,
excluding service lines.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer line receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of grab samples of equal volume taken at
predetermined times over a predetermined time period without regard to flow and
which are combined into one sample.
   CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT. BOD, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, and such additional pollutants as are now or may in the future be
specified and controlled in the utility’s permit for its wastewater treatment
works where said works have been designed and used to reduce or remove
pollutants.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from uses such as air conditioning or
refrigeration or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   CUSTOMER or USER. The person or authorized agent of the person or entity
designated on the records of the town as the person responsible for payment of
charges incurred for the use of the wastewater service system at the premises
being served.
   DOMESTIC WASTES or SANITARY WASTES. Liquid waste from the noncommercial
preparation, cooking and handling of food, or that which contains human
excrement and similar matter discharged into a collection line from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities
and other institutions.
   FIXTURE UNIT EQUIVALENT. The unit value prescribed for plumbing fixtures as
set out in the Uniform Plumbing Code, latest edition, computed on the basis of
the design capability of such fixture to permit the flow of water or
wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food and
produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A singular sample of a user’s effluent which is taken during
the user’s normal operating day without regard for variations in daily
operational characteristics, flow or concentration of pollutants.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a CONVENTIONAL POLLUTANT
as defined herein.
   INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, cesspool or similar
self-contained receptacle of facility which collects and/or treats or otherwise
disposes of wastewater and which is not connected to the wastewater treatment
system of the town.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge under regulations pursuant
to or for which local pretreatment standards have been published by the
Environmental Protection Agency or for which local pretreatment standards have
been established.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any liquid, solid or gaseous waste or form of energy or
combination thereof resulting from any process or operational procedures of an
industrial user and is distinct from sanitary wastes.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of the POTW’s sewer system, treatment
processes or operations or which contributes to a violation of any requirement
of the town’s permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act or any criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Wastes Disposal Act,
being 33 U.S.C. Chapter 82, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 85, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 to 2629, or more
stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use employed
by the POTW.
   NPDES or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. The program for
issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from
point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone and the oceans
pursuant to § 402 of the Act. This shall be analogous with the term CDPS,
Colorado discharge permit system, wherein the state has delegated the
authorities and responsibilities outlined above.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that, when analyzed by
standard methods, contains no more than 200 milligrams per liter (mg/l) of
suspended solids and 200 milligrams per liter (mg/l) of BOD.
   PERMIT. The right of discharge of domestic or sanitary wastes into the
town’s collection lines.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
moles per liter of solution, measured in a scale from one to 14 (one to seven
is acidic; seven to 14 is base) with seven being neutral.
   PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical and/or biological processes
to reduce the amount of pollutants in or to alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to discharging such wastewater into the
wastewater treatment system.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All applicable federal rules and regulations
implementing § 307 of the Act, as well as any nonconflicting state or local
standards. In cases of conflicting standards or regulations, the more stringent
thereof shall be applied.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW), WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM, SEWER
SYSTEM or WASTEWATER SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities, structures, equipment or
works owned or used by the town for the purpose of the transmission, storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of domestic wastes, or to recycle or reuse
water, including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, natural treatment
systems, collection lines, pumping, power and other equipment, and their
appurtenances and excluding service lines; extensions, improvements, additions,
alteration or any remodeling thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable
recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and
any works, including the land and sites that may be acquired, that will be an
integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of
residues resulting from such treatment.
   QUALIFIED MAINTENANCE MANAGER. The qualified person, as defined herein,
appointed and employed by the town to administer these rules and regulations
and to oversee the technical and practical operation of the POTW.
   RECEIVING WATER. Lakes, rivers, streams or other watercourses which receive
treated or untreated wastewater.
   RESIDENTIAL. Pertaining to wastewater service provided premises used as
dwelling places or residences, including single-family dwellings, common wall
multi-family dwellings, mobile home and manufactured homes.
   SERVICE LINE. The wastewater collector line extending from the wastewater
disposal facilities of the premises up to and including the connection to the
collection line.
   SLUDGE. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which contains
any substances regulated by this chapter in concentrations which exceed for any
period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average daily
concentration of that substance during normal operations and exceeds the
limitations contained in this chapter, or which causes a twofold or more
increase in discharge rate for a period longer than 20 minutes; or causes the
user’s effluent to violate the pH limitations provided in this chapter for a
period longer than 20 minutes.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted water.
   STORM WATER. Water flowing or discharged as a result of rain, snow or other
precipitation.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface, or
is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering by standard methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water which does not contain any substances limited or
prohibited by the effluent standards in effect or water whose discharge will
not cause any violation of receiving water quality standards.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 51.03 QUALIFIED MAINTENANCE MANAGER.
   (A)   There is created the position of qualified maintenance manager who
shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees and shall be paid such remuneration
for the performance of his or her duties as the Board may fix from time to
time.
   (B)   The duties of the Qualified Maintenance Manager, hereinafter referred
to as QMM, shall consist of the following.
      (1)   The QMM shall be responsible for the management of the wastewater
system and all of the property appertaining thereto and shall see that such
system is kept in good working order and repair.
      (2)   The QMM shall ensure proper compliance with all local, state and
federal regulations for collection, treatment and discharge of wastewater.
      (3)   The QMM shall designate the location of each new connection to the
wastewater system and keep adequate records of the location of all connections
and the general plans of the system.
      (4)   The QMM shall make recommendations to the Board for improvements,
additions and repairs to the wastewater system and provide recommendations for
the annual budgeting of funds for the operation and maintenance of the sewage
works.
      (5)   The QMM shall perform all other duties in connection with the
wastewater system as may be required of him or her by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 51.04 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, business or entity to
construct an individual septic system, privy vault or receptacle for wastewater
disposal or similar private device after the adoption date hereof within the
limits of the town and it shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human
or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Connection to the town wastewater system. At such time as a connection
line becomes available to a property served by an individual wastewater
disposal system, in that the connection line is within 400 feet of the
individual wastewater disposal system, such property owner shall cause a direct
connection to be made to the connection line in compliance with the cost and
charges section listed below, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private disposal facilities shall be abandoned and will be filled with
permitted material.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 SERVICE.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring to connect a service line to the
wastewater treatment system of the town, or to add fixtures to an existing
connection, shall make application to the QMM for wastewater service. The
application for service shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information deemed necessary by the QMM to determine compliance with all
regulations or rules concerning the wastewater system. The QMM shall endorse
his or her approval or disapproval of the application as complying or failing
to comply with all regulations or rules concerning the wastewater system of the
town. Upon approval by the QMM of such application, such user receiving
wastewater service shall pay therefor in accordance with the applicable rates,
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Users outside the town. The policy of the town relating to the
furnishing of wastewater treatment service to users located outside the
boundaries of the town requires annexation to the town prior to discharge of
water to the town’s wastewater system at the applicant’s expense. The town
expressly reserves the right, as may be limited by state or federal law, to
impose such conditions as it may see fit relative to furnishing such service,
and may refuse such service in its discretion. Any deviation to this policy
requires approval by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Excavations. All excavations for installation or repair of wastewater
lines shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights and meet all
applicable safety standards so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of work
shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   Connection required. The owner of any house, building or property used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within
the town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a collection line of the town, is
required at such owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper collection line in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after official
notice to do so; provided that said collection line is within 100 feet of the
property line. Under unusual circumstances, such as unique topographical
characteristics, the Board of Trustees, at its total discretion and with Health
Department approval, may waive the connection requirement.
   (B)   Connection or disconnection; permit. The town shall issue a permit for
each connection or disconnection made to or from the wastewater treatment
system of the town. Such permit will be required for all new connections,
existing connections where additional fixtures are to be installed and for
disconnections. Permits for connections or disconnection shall be issued only
to master plumbers. A permit application and inspection fee for existing septic
systems and for new residents in amounts as shall be set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time shall be paid to the town at the time the
application is filed. Commercial applications shall be in an amount as shall be
set by the Board of Trustees from time to time. Significant industrial fees
will be determined by the Board based on facility characteristics.
   (C)   Unauthorized connections prohibited. It shall be a violation of these
rules and regulations for any unauthorized person to uncover, enter, insert
equipment, make any connections with or openings into, use, alter or disturb
any collection line or appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a permit
to connect from the town and such connections shall be made in compliance with
building and plumbing codes, town collection system standards and other
applicable rules and regulations of the town. Fines in an amount as shall be
set by the Board of Trustees from time to time will be issued for any violation
thereof.
   (D)   Connection to system; inspection by town. The applicant for the
wastewater service permit shall notify the QMM when the service line is ready
for inspection and connection to the collection line. The connection and
testing required by the town shall be made under the supervision of the QMM.
The town shall not be subjected to any liability for any deficiency or defect
which is not discovered by inspection nor shall the owner or developer of such
property be absolved from liability for such deficiency or defect and any
resulting damage or from responsibility to correct such deficiency or defect.
   (E)   Collection lines; manner of extension. Collection lines to collect and
intercept wastewater from and throughout areas or additions shall be extended
by the owner of the premises to be served by such lines from the existing
collection line to the farthest point or points upgrade of such property. If
the QMM determines that extension of collection lines to the farthest point or
points upgrade is not necessary for efficient expansion of the wastewater
treatment system, the QMM may waive the requirement of such extension. In any
event, collection lines shall be extended by the owner of the property to be
served by such lines from the existing collection line to a point which permits
the shortest possible service line between the collection line and the property
line of the premises served thereby. Thereafter, the collection lines shall be
extended to adjoining property in compliance with the latest edition of the
town’s “Regulations and Specifications.” Extensions shall not be made for
remote or isolated services unless the applicant requesting such service shall
provide for the cost of such extension to the point of service and such
extension is approved by the Board.
   (F)   Wastewater lines; compliance with subdivision and other land use
requirements. No wastewater lines shall be laid or placed in any proposed
addition or subdivision in the town until said proposed addition is platted and
approved by the Board in accordance with the town subdivision regulations.
Further, any proposed extension of service to platted but undeveloped property
within the town shall be governed by applicable town ordinance.
   (G)   Service lines; separate for each building; exceptions. A separate and
independent service line shall be provided for every building. However, where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot which cannot be
subdivided, and no service line is available nor can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the service line
of the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one service. Multi-family or commercial or industrial complexes
having more than one building on a single platted lot may have the individual
buildings connected to a single common service line, unless and until such lot
is resubdivided or the buildings otherwise become separately owned, in which
case, independent connections shall be made. Waiver of this requirement for a
separate and independent service line may be granted by the Board upon
resubdivision or creation of separate ownership of individual buildings on a
single lot with existing multi-family or commercial, but not industrial
complexes. Such a waiver shall be granted upon showing that the service lines
owned in common will be maintained by an entity of the owners of the separate
buildings. By regulation, the Board may provide for additional requirements to
assure proper maintenance and repair of the common service lines, and, if
necessary, monitoring of effluent quality or quantity. The town does not assume
any obligation nor acquire any liability for damage to the connecting property
or any portion thereof caused by or resulting from any such connection to the
wastewater system as aforementioned. Similarly, the allowance of a single
service line will not excuse each residence or user from paying the costs and
rates set forth herein.
   (H)   Service line; construction to conform to rules and regulations. The
size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a service line, and the
methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joining, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of applicable
town building and plumbing codes as well as other applicable rules and
regulations of the town pertaining to its wastewater system.
   (I)   Service line; use of gravity flow. Whenever possible, the service line
shall be brought from the building to an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the collection line, wastewater carried by such building drain shall be lifted
by means approved by the QMM and the installation shall be made in accordance
with the requirement of the town at the owner’s expense, including the
maintenance thereof.
   (J)   Service line; maintenance of.
      (1)   The owner of any premises connected to the town’s wastewater
treatment system shall be responsible for the maintenance of the service line
and appurtenances thereto, from and including the connection to the collection
line to the premises served. The owner shall keep such line in good condition
and shall replace, at his or her expense, any portions thereof which, in the
opinion of the QMM, have become so damaged or disintegrated as to be unfit for
further use or permit excessive infiltration of ground water or exfiltration of
wastewater. The owner must secure all required permits for construction
purposes and shall be responsible for returning the public right-of-way and the
street to acceptable town standards.
      (2)   In the event that more than one property is connected to a single
service line, the owners of the respective premises shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance and repair requirements imposed by
this chapter.
      (3)   Prior to repair or alteration of the service line, a permit must be
obtained from the town. A permit application fee in an amount as shall be set
by the Board of Trustees from time to time shall be imposed to cover the costs
of the inspection. The inspection shall assure that rules applying to the
wastewater system are met. The town shall not be subjected to any liability for
any deficiency in the repair or alteration of such premises, and shall be
absolved from liability for such deficiency or defect and any resulting damage
or from responsibility to correct such deficiency or defect.
   (K)   Existing lines; conditions for use. Old wastewater lines may be used
in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination by
the QMM, to meet all requirements of this chapter and to be compatible with the
proposed use. If found unacceptable for future use, the owner shall be required
to excavate the line at the point of connection to the collection line and cap
the connection as required by the town standards.
   (L)   Construction requirements for commencement and completion.
Construction of a building or facility to be served by a wastewater connection
shall be commenced within 120 days from the date of the payment of the
connection charges or issuance of a permit as set forth herein, and such
construction shall be pursued to completion without suspension or abandonment.
Failure to comply with the above regulations may result in cancellation of the
permit. The Board may extend the time for completion of the building or
facility beyond 120 days for extenuating circumstances but in no event shall
the time be extended beyond two years from the date of the issuance of the
permit.
   (M)   Fixture unit equivalents. Fixture unit equivalents shall be calculated
using the following schedule and shall apply to “stubbed in” or “roughed in”
fixture traps as well as those fixtures being installed.
Kind of Fixture Trap Arm Equivalents
Kind of Fixture                                         Trap Arm Equivalents
Bathtubs                                                1-1/2” 2
Bidets                                                  1-1/2” 2
Clothes washers                                         1-1/2” 2
Dental unit or cuspidors                                1-1/2” 1
Dishwashers (residential)                               1-1/2” 2
Drinking fountains                                      1-1/4” 1
Floor drains                                            2”     5
Interceptors for grease, oil, solids and the like       2”     3
Interceptors for sand, auto wash and the like           3”     6
Laundry tubs                                            1-1/2” 2
Receptors (floor sinks), indirect waste receptors for   1-1/2” 3
refrigerators, coffee urns, water stations and the like
Showers, gang (per showerhead)                          2”     1
Showers, single stall                                   2”     2
Sinks, bar, commercial                                  1-1/2” 2
Sinks, bar, private                                     1-1/2” 1
Sinks, commercial or industrial schools and the like,   1-1/2” 3
including dishwashers, wash up sinks and wash fountains
Sinks, double (residential kitchen)                     1-1/2” 2
Sinks, flushing rim, clinic                             3”     6
Sinks, service                                          2”     3
Urinals, pedestal                                       3”     6
Urinals, stall                                          2”     2
Urinals, trough                                         1-1/2” 3
Wash basins, in sets                                    1-1/2” 2
Wash basins, (lavatories) single                        1-1/4” 1
Water closet, flush valve type                          3”     6
Water closet, tank type                                 3”     4
 
   (N)   Disconnection. New service lines to replace existing service lines
shall not be approved by the town until old service lines are dug up and
properly capped. Such cap shall be sufficiently tight to prevent the escape of
wastewater gas or the infiltration of water. A disconnection fee in an amount
as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time shall also be
charged to the owner to cover the administrative and inspection costs.
   (O)   Surface runoff. No user or other person shall make a connection of
roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a collection line.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 COSTS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater facilities; allocation of cost.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, a property owner or developer
shall be responsible for the costs and construction of all wastewater
facilities and the appurtenances thereto in and through his or her property or
development upon approval of the plans and specifications by the town. The
town’s subdivision regulations and other relevant land use regulations shall be
followed when applicable. The town shall inspect and approve the actual
construction of wastewater facilities prior to connection to the town
wastewater system.
      (2)   The construction of wastewater facilities shall include the
following.
         (a)   The town may require the owner or developer to construct a
collection line larger than that required for his or her needs for the service
of lands adjacent to his or her property or development, in which case the town
may enter into a cost recovery agreement with the owner or developer to collect
a pro rata share of the costs of such construction from the owner of the
adjacent lands at the time of their connection to the system and refund such
costs to the owner or developer.
         (b)   When an owner or developer finds it necessary to construct
wastewater facilities through or adjacent to nonserviced or undeveloped lands,
the owner or developer shall pay the entire cost of such facilities. However,
the town may agree, in writing, with the owner or developer to collect a pro
rata share of the costs from the owner of property served by such facilities at
the time of connection to the wastewater system and shall refund such cost to
the owner or developer.
         (c)   In the event that pump stations and force mains are required,
the cost of constructing said stations and mains shall be the responsibility of
the owner of property served thereby. Where it appears that more area or lands
may be served by the pump station and force mains, the town may require a
larger capacity than necessary to serve the initial development. Where such
larger capacity is required, the town may enter into a cost recovery agreement
with the owner or developer to collect a pro rata share of the costs from
adjacent lands at the time of their connection and refund such costs to the
owner or developer.
         (d)   In those instances where pump stations and force mains are
required, the wastewater system shall be designed where possible so as to
permit an eventual connection into a gravity system with a minimum of expense.
Where practical, easements shall be provided and lines constructed to tie into
the gravity system. The town may require deposits from the property owners
requiring said force system, where deemed necessary, to pay for the eventual
construction of gravity lines.
         (e)   All costs incidental to or resulting from the procurement by the
town of any required easement or right-of-way, whether obtained by dedication,
contract, condemnation or otherwise, shall be borne by the owner or developer,
unless this requirement is waived by the Town Board.
         (f)   A property owner or developer, at the discretion of the Board,
may be responsible for the cost of construction of relief sewers and necessary
appurtenances when the proposed flow demand exceeds existing sewer system
capacity. The town may enter into a cost recovery agreement with the owner or
developer should a relief sewer be required.
   (B)   Installation cost. All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of service lines from the collection line to the
premises shall be borne by the owner of such premises. The owner shall
indemnify the town for any loss or damage to the town that may, directly or
indirectly, be occasioned by the installation of such service line.
   (C)   Connection charge. In each lot, subdivision or addition, located
inside the town limits, for which a request for wastewater connection or
addition to the wastewater treatment system of the town shall be made, there is
and shall be a connection charge imposed against the requesting owner. Said
connection charge shall consist of a permit charge and a system development
charge, and may also include cost recovery agreement charges where applicable.
   (D)   Permit charge. A permit charge shall be assessed for each connection
to or disconnection from the wastewater treatment system of the town to defray
the costs of administration and inspection. Such charge shall be assessed and
collected prior to the issuance of a permit to connect or a disconnection
permit. For each one-family dwelling or mobile home, the amount of the permit
charge shall be an amount as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time. For each commercial or industrial premises and for each two-family
dwelling or multiple dwelling, the amount of the permit charge shall be an
amount as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for the first
15 fixture unit equivalents, and an additional amount as shall be set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time for each additional 15 fixture unit
equivalents or portions thereof.
   (E)   System development charge. A system development charge, formerly known
as a tap fee, in amounts as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to
time for existing septic, new residence or commercial, or significant
industrial fees determined by the Board based on facility characteristics,
shall be assessed for each connection to the wastewater system of the town to
partially defray the cost of capital improvement of such system. Such charge
shall be collected at the time the application for wastewater service is filed
and such fee shall be for each new connection into the collection line and
shall be charged for all new users or connections, regardless of whether the
new user or connection is tapping into an existing tap or directly into the
wastewater system. The system development charge may be increased at the
discretion of the Town Board.
   (F)   Late charges. A late fee charge of 10% of the balance due amount shall
be assessed against any user, if the monthly charge is not paid by such user by
the fifteenth day of that month’s billing, as represented on the face of the
billing statement, hereinafter referred to as the “due date.”
   (G)   Changes in rates. The Board may, at its discretion, periodically
change the rate schedule to reflect the total costs to the town of the
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system. Until paid, all charges
imposed by this chapter shall constitute a perpetual lien on and against the
property connected to or served by the wastewater treatment system of the town.
Recording of the lien shall not be a prerequisite to foreclosure thereof by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Treatment required. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
into any natural waterway or any surface drainage within the town, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater unless suitable
treatment of such wastewater has been provided in accordance with the
provisions of these rules and regulations and applicable county, state or
federal regulations.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It shall be a violation of these rules and regulations
and unlawful under federal law for any person to discharge or deposit or cause
or allow to be discharged or deposited into the wastewater treatment facility
of the town any waste or wastewater which contains the following:
      (1)   Individual wastewater disposal system wastes from septic tanks,
cesspools, holding tanks, privy vaults, sand and grease traps or similar
devices;
      (2)   Storm water drainage from ground; surface; roof headers; catch
basins; unroofed area drains (e.g., commercial car washing facilities); or any
other source;
      (3)   Other water, including, but not limited to, underground drains,
sump pump discharges, natural springs, seeps, wetlands outflows and water
accumulated in excavations or any other water associated with construction;
      (4)   Inert suspended solids or other inert particulate matter, such as,
but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries and paint residues, resulting
in wastewater with settleable solids concentration greater than 15 milliliters
per liter;
      (5)   Unusual concentrations of dissolved solids, that may, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other users, cause the POTW effluent to exceed
water quality criteria for the pollutant in question;
      (6)   Oil and grease of the following concentrations, sources and nature:
         (a)   Wastewater containing total grease and oil in excess of 100
milligrams per liter (mg/l) concentration, as measured by Soxhlet extraction
set forth in the most recent edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater” or “U.S. EPA Manual of Methods for Chemical Analysis
of Water and Wastes;” and
         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter (mg/l)
petroleum, as measured as hydrocarbons by Soxhlet extraction, or other approved
method set out in “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater.” Evidence of oil or grease in wastewater shall be based upon
instantaneous or “grab” samples.
      (7)   Explosive mixtures consisting of liquids, solids or gases which, by
reason of their nature or quantity, are, or may be, sufficient, either alone or
by interaction with other substances, to cause fire or explosion or be
injurious in any other way to the wastewater treatment system or to the
operation of the system. At no time shall two successive readings on an
explosive hazard meter at the point of discharge into the wastewater system be
more than 5% nor may any single reading be over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to:
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides. Waste streams at the point of discharge are prohibited
if they have a closed cup flashpoint of less than 60°C (140°F) using test
methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (8)   Noxious material consisting of noxious or malodorous solids,
liquids or gases, which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are or may be
sufficient to prevent entry into any portion of the wastewater system for its
maintenance and repair;
      (9)   Improperly shredded garbage that has not been ground or comminuted
to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under
flow conditions normally prevailing in the wastewater system to which the user
is connected. At all times, no particle shall be greater than one-half inch in
any direction;
      (10)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such a half life or
concentration that they do not meet regulations set forth by the State
Department of Health in the latest edition of “Rules and Regulations Pertaining
to Radiological Control;”
      (11)   Solid, viscous or liquid wastes which allow or may cause
obstruction to the flow in a collection line or otherwise interfere with the
proper operation of the wastewater treatment system. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to: grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper,
wood, plastic, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing fuel
or lubrication oil and similar substances;
      (12)   Toxic substances in amounts exceeding standards promulgated by the
administrator of the United States Environment Protection Agency pursuant to §
307(a) of the Act, and chemical elements or compounds, phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, or any other substances, including metals which
are not susceptible to treatment or which may interfere with the biological
processes or efficiency of the treatment system or which will be transmitted
through the stem to receiving water, as may be measured by failure of a
biomonitoring toxicity test;
      (13)   Substances which are not amenable to treatment of prescribed
reduction by the treatment process employed by the Wastewater Department, or
are amenable to such a limited degree of reduction that a discharge of such
wastewater would result in an interference with the wastewater treatment works
or pass through the treatment facilities such that the effluent discharge from
the treatment works does not meet requirements of state, federal and other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge or application to receiving waters
and/or lands;
      (14)   Waste with color not removable by the treatment process;
      (15)   Corrosive wastes which will cause corrosion, deterioration or
interference of the wastewater system;
      (16)   All wastewater discharged into the wastewater system must have an
instantaneous pH value in the range of five and one-half to ten standard units.
         (a)   A more stringent range of acceptable wastewater effluent pH
identified in applicable national categorical pretreatment standards shall
supersede the range noted herein.
         (b)   Where a continuous pH recording monitor has been installed by
the user and approved by the QMM, pH compliance with these applicable sections
may also be determined by records inspection indicating effluent pH within the
applicable range for a period exceeding 90% of the user’s operating day.
      (17)   Spent process chemicals, solutions or materials; hazardous waste
as defined by the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; and other materials normally used in industrial/
commercial operations unless specifically authorized, in writing, by the QMM
and after suitable treatment as approved by the QMM has been effected;
      (18)   Hospitals, clinics, offices of medical doctors and convalescent
homes shall not dispose of laboratory pathological wastes, surgical operating
room wastes or delivery room wastes by discharge through or to the wastewater
system;
      (19)   Biocides as determined by the QMM in concentrations exceeding 0.02
milligrams per liter unless approved in writing by the QMM;
      (20)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants or slug
concentrations (e.g., BOD), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which will cause interference with the POTW;
      (21)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (105°F);
      (22)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW; and
      (23)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (C)   Limitations. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or
deposit or cause or allow to be discharged or deposited into the wastewater
facilities of the town any waste or wastewater which fails to comply with the
limitations imposed by this chapter.
   (D)   Point of discharge; limitations. It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other opening in the
wastewater treatment system other than through an approved service line. Liquid
wastes, from chemical toilets, and trailers, campers or other recreational
vehicles, which have been collected and/or held in tanks or other containers
shall not be discharged into the wastewater system.
   (E)   Disposal; limitations. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose
of wastes into the wastewater system where such wastes have been collected and/
or held in a tank or other container and where such wastes fail to comply with
any limitation set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The QMM and other duly authorized employees or agents of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted, upon giving
reasonable notice to the owner thereof, to enter all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this code. The QMM and other duly authorized
employees, or agents of the town, shall confine their inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing to those matters which have a direct or
indirect impact or consequence to the town wastewater system or to the
waterways of this state.
   (B)   The QMM and other duly authorized employees or agents of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater system lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be served by the town with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limits provided for in the notice referred to above shall receive a summons and
complaint into Town Municipal Court and, if convicted thereof, shall be fined
in an amount as provided by this code or ordinance, as determined by the
Municipal Court Judge. Further, any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be responsible for the expense, loss or damage incurred by
the town because of such violation, which expense, loss or damage shall be
assessed to the violator along with the penalty referred to above.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10) (Ord. 162, passed 9-8-2003)
CHAPTER 52: GROUND WATER PROTECTION
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Restrictions within the primary protection zone
   
52.03   Exemptions
   
52.04   Preservation of ground water
   
52.05   Maps
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation, group of formations or part of a formation
that contains sufficient saturated, permeable material to yield significant
quantities of water to wells and springs.
   GROUND WATER. Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the surface of
land or water, whether or not it is flowing through known and definite
channels.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Petroleum products and those materials and substances
identified by the state’s and the United States’ federal laws as being
hazardous, on the federal hazardous waste list or substances other than those
listed on the federal hazardous waste list that are determined by state or
federal agencies to pose a significant threat to any community water supply,
well or well field.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCT. Fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene and mixtures of
these products); lubricating oils; motor oils; hydraulic fluids; and other
similar products.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes meeting current state and federal drinking water standards.
   PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE. An area extending not less than 200 feet radially
from any well supplying potable water to any community water system.
   STORAGE SYSTEM. Any one or combination of tanks, sumps, wet floors, waste
treatment facilities, pipes, vaults or other portable or fixed containers used
or designed to be used for the storage of hazardous substances.
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is to
convey ground water from an aquifer or aquifer system to the surface by pumping
or natural flow, or to monitor the characteristics of ground water within an
aquifer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. 153, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 52.02 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN THE PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of a
hazardous substance (including herbicide and pesticide) to the soils, ground
water or surface water within the primary protection zone except as allowed in
§
52.03. Any person knowing or having evidence of a discharge shall report such
information to the appropriate water system personnel.
   (B)   New sanitary landfills are prohibited within the primary protection
zones.
   (C)   The use, handling, production and storage of hazardous substances is
prohibited in primary protection zones except as provided in §
52.03.
   (D)   Wastewater treatment plants are prohibited within the primary
protection zones.
   (E)   Septic tanks are prohibited within the primary protection zone.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2) (Ord. 153, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities or uses are exempt from the provisions of §
52.02:
   (A)   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the primary
protection zone; provided the transporting vehicle is in transit;
   (B)   The use of herbicides and pesticides may be used within the primary
protection zone; provided that best management practices are used as approved
by the Town Manager or it is determined that the use of such herbicides and
pesticides does not pose a serious threat to the ground water;
   (C)   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle fuel
tank or as a lubricant in a vehicle;
   (D)   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management center
facilities or public utility transmission facilities;
   (E)   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous substances
for resale in their original unopened containers;
   (F)   Consumer products limited to use within a commercial business or
public facility and used solely for janitorial or minor maintenance purposes;
   (G)   Consumer products located in the home which are used for personal,
family or household purposes; and
   (H)   The use of water treatment chemicals connected with the operation of
the well.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3) (Ord. 153, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 52.04 PRESERVATION OF GROUND WATER.
   (A)   The town claims and appropriates, as part of its water service to its
residents, all right, title and interest in and to the ground water and right
to use ground water in the alluvium and aquifers underlying and located within
the town boundaries.
   (B)   After the effective date hereof, no person other than the town and/or
its authorized agents may drill or construct a water well or withdraw ground
water from the alluvium or aquifers underlying and located within the town
boundaries.
   (C)   Those wells which are owned and operated by private persons within the
town as of the effective date hereof and which are drawing water from the
alluvium or aquifer underlying the town may continue to operate and draw water
as before and said wells may also be repaired or rehabilitated when needed.
However, said use or quantity of water drawn from such wells may not increase
significantly and the well may not be substituted, relocated or otherwise moved
by the owner or operator without the consent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4) (Ord. 153, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 MAPS.
   The town shall maintain, at the Town Hall, maps or other details reflecting
the location of the primary protection zones available for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-5) (Ord. 153, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine in an amount as
shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for each separate
violation thereof. Further, the town may seek equitable remedies for any
recurring violation including injunctions and restraining orders.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-6) (Ord. 153, passed 9-10-2001)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Adoption of Model Traffic Code
   
70.03   Amendments
   
70.04   Interpretation and application of provisions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the “Flagler Municipal Traffic
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 105, passed 1-9-1978)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF MODEL TRAFFIC CODE.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Article 16, Parts 1 and 2, as amended, there is
adopted by reference Articles I and II, inclusive, of the 2024 Edition of the
“Model Traffic Code for Colorado,” as promulgated and published as such by the
State Department of Transportation, Staff Traffic and Safety Projects Branch,
4201 East Arkansas Avenue, Denver, CO 80222. The subject matter of the Model
Traffic Code relates primarily to comprehensive traffic control regulations for
the town. The purpose of this chapter and the code adopted herein is to provide
a system of traffic regulations consistent with state law and generally
conforming to similar regulations throughout the state and the nation. Three
copies of the Model Traffic Code adopted herein are now filed in the office of
the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and may be inspected during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 161, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 70.03 AMENDMENTS.
   The 2003 Edition of the Model Traffic Code is adopted as if set out at
length, save and except for the following articles and/or sections which are
deleted, added to or modified as set forth.
   (A)   Part 11, Speed Regulations, is amended as follows.
      “(1)   (b)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district.
      (1)   (c)   Twenty five miles per hour in any residential district.
      (1)   (h)   Any speed not in excess of a posted speed limit as designated
by an official traffic control device.”
   (B)   Part 12, Parking, is amended as follows.
      (1)   Section 1202 shall be amended to add the following language: “Curb
loading operations shall be conducted in such a manner as to leave at least one
lane of traffic open in the street, but if one such lane cannot feasibly be
left open, then the permittee shall provide and erect, during such operations,
approved barricades at both ends of the block in which traffic is so
obstructed, and in such case the standing for loading and unloading shall not
exceed two hours. In no case shall the standing for loading and unloading
materials exceed two hours, unless expressly permitted by the terms of the
special permit for such loading operations issued in accordance with this
ordinance. No person shall operate or stop, stand, or park any vehicle having
lugs or flanges on any of its wheels or tracks at any time upon any surfaced
street or concrete crosswalk, curb, or gutter in such a manner as to cause
damage to said street, crosswalk or gutter.”
      (2)   Section 1205 shall be amended to add (4) which states that: “On
those streets which have been approved and signed or marked for angle parking,
and except in cases of authorized parades, icy street conditions, or by
proclamation by the Mayor, no person shall stop stand, or park a vehicle other
than at an angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
makings, and with a front wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway.”
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 161, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. This chapter shall be so interpreted and construed as
to effectuate its general purpose to conform with the state’s uniform system
for the regulation of vehicles and traffic. Chapter and section headings of
this chapter and adopted Model Traffic Code shall not be deemed to govern,
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or extent of the
provisions of any section hereof.
   (B)   Application. This chapter shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk
area, driveway, park and to every other public way or public place or public
parking area, either within or outside the corporate limits of this
municipality, the use of which this municipality has jurisdiction and authority
to regulate. The provisions of §§ 1401, 1402, 1413 and pt. 16 of the adopted
Model Traffic Code, respectively, concerning reckless driving, careless
driving, eluding a police officer, accidents and accident reports shall apply
not only to public places and ways but also throughout this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 161, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; fine; procedure. It is unlawful for any person to violate
any of the provisions in this chapter. Every person convicted of a violation of
any provision adopted in this chapter may be punished by a fine in an amount as
shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time. The Municipal Court
Judge may establish a schedule of fines and costs to be implemented within the
Municipal Court. Traffic offenses set forth in the Model Traffic Code which are
also defined as “traffic infractions” by C.R.S. Title 42 shall not be punished
by jail time and the person so charged shall not be entitled to a jury trial.
Accordingly, this section, and any other town ordinance which may be in
opposition to this chapter, shall be amended to reflect that a fine or penalty
may be imposed for any violation of the Model Traffic Code as adopted by the
town in an amount as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time
but that no jail will be assessed by the Municipal Court Judge as to traffic
offenses defined as “traffic infractions” by the Colorado Revised Statutes.
   (B)   Default judgment. As to those defendants who fail or refuse to appear
either at arraignment or a trial to court, in view of the fact that the town
does not assess jail time or a fine in excess of the amount as shall be set by
the Board of Trustees from time to time for any municipal traffic offense, the
Municipal Court Judge is authorized and empowered to declare a default judgment
against the defendant in any such event, and the following procedure shall be
implemented.
      (1)   The Clerk of the Court shall keep a full record of every case in
which a defendant fails to appear either at arraignment or at trial.
      (2)   Within ten days after the entry of the default judgment upon a
charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law regulating the
operation of vehicles within the town, the Clerk shall prepare and immediately
forward to the State Department of Revenue, Division of Motor Vehicles, or such
other appropriate agency, an abstract of the record of the court covering the
case in which said person had a judgment entered against him or her, certified
by the Clerk. The abstract shall be on such form furnished by the Department
and shall include the name, address and driver’s license number of the party
charged; the registration number of the vehicle involved; the nature of the
offense; the date of hearing; the plea, if any; the judgment; and the amount of
the fine.
      (3)   The procedure shall be conducted in such a way as to ensure that
the convicted person shall not be able to renew his or her driving license and
privileges without paying such fine to the town as well as any administrative
fee required by the state or in any other state that is a member of the
interstate driving compact of which the state is also a member.
   (C)   Penalty assessment; automatic reduction of points. If a defendant
receives a penalty assessment notice for a violation under the Model Traffic
Code as adopted by the town, which notice pertains to a traffic infraction, as
defined by law, and such defendant pays the fine and surcharge, if any, for the
violation on or before the date that the payment is due, the points assessed
for the violation, as reflected on the summons and complaint issued to the
defendant, shall be reduced as follows:
      (1)   For a violation having an assessment of three or more points, the
points are reduced by two points; and
      (2)   For a violation having an assessment of two points, the points are
reduced by one point. Such reduction shall conform to the point assessment
schedule under C.R.S. § 42-2-127.5.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) (Ord. 161, passed 7-14-2003)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   JUNK, JUNKED VEHICLES AND JUNKYARDS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Permit requirements
   
90.03   Removal of animals upon denial or revocation of permit
   
90.04   Existing animals
   
90.05   Running at large prohibited
   
90.06   Impoundment
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Dog licenses and tags
   
90.22   Prohibited acts
   
90.23   Female dogs in heat
   
90.24   Vicious dogs
   
90.25   Rabies control
   
90.26   Poisoning dogs prohibited
   
90.27   Impoundment and redemption procedures
   
90.28   Noise enforcement
   
90.29   Interference with town officers
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Includes cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine and other hard
hoofed animals. The term does not include dogs and cats.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the town.
   CLERK/TREASURER. The duly appointed and acting Clerk/Treasurer of the town.
   FOWL. Includes chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys and other poultry.
   LOT. The tract or parcel of land described in the application required by §
90.02(B)(1).
   PERSON. Person, partnership, corporation or any association of any of them.
   TOWN. The Town of Flagler, Colorado.
   TOWN MANAGER. Person appointed by the Board of Trustees with the duty to
enforce town codes and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 122, passed 12-11-1984)
§ 90.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required; exceptions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain animals,
rabbits or fowl within the corporate limits of the town, unless such person
holds a valid permit to do so issued in accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   A permit shall not be required for the temporary keeping of animals
in connection with the lawful operation of a meat processing plant or in
connection with the treatment of animals by a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   Permit procedures and conditions. A permit for the keeping of animals,
rabbits and fowl may be obtained in accordance with the following procedures
and upon the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   Application; contents.
         (a)   A person seeking a permit shall file an application with the
Clerk/Treasurer on forms provided by the Clerk/Treasurer. The application shall
contain, at a minimum, the following information:
            1.   Name of person seeking the permit;
            2.   The number and kind of animals, rabbits or fowl to be kept;
            3.   A description of the tract or parcel of land on which the
animals, rabbits or fowl are to be kept, described with sufficient
particularity to establish the external boundaries of such tract or parcel; and
            4.   A description of the structure, pen or premises in which the
animals, rabbits or fowl are to be kept.
         (b)   The application shall be accompanied with a fee established from
time to time by resolution of the Board and shall be accompanied by the
signatures of not less than 75% of all owners of, and all adult persons
occupying, real estate within 300 feet of the external boundary lines of the
lot described in the application, stating that such persons do not object to
the issuance of the permit.
         (c)   Separate applications with respect to cattle, horses, mules,
goats, swine, other hard hoofed animals, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese,
turkeys and other poultry, with payment of a separate fee for each application
and accompanied by a separate list of signatures, shall be filed with the Town
Clerk/Treasurer in order to obtain original permits.
         (d)   All fees, when paid, shall be nonrefundable in order to cover
administrative costs, whether or not the permit applied for is issued.
      (2)   Preliminary review of application. Upon the filing of the
application, the Clerk/Treasurer shall review the same as to form and shall,
within ten days after filing, approve it as to form or return it to applicant
with a written statement setting forth in what particulars the application is
not approved as to form.
      (3)   Action by Board. When an application is approved as to form by the
Clerk/Treasurer, it shall be submitted promptly to the Board for action at its
next regular meeting. In acting on an application, the Board shall approve,
deny or postpone action until not later than the next regular meeting. In
approving an application, the Board may impose reasonable conditions as to
numbers of animals, rabbits or fowl; type and location of structure or pen; and
maintenance and care thereof. In the case of denial, the applicant may, upon
request, have the application reconsidered at the next regular meeting of the
Board. Denial or approval by the Board, or action on reconsideration thereof,
shall be final.
      (4)   Term of permit; nontransferability. Permits approved and issued in
accordance with this subchapter shall not have an expiration date, except if
the permit holder violates the requirements of this chapter and the permit is
revoked. Permits shall be issued only to the applicant and shall not be
transferable.
      (5)   Renewal of a permit.
         (a)   Renewal of an animal permit is not required unless the town has
received complaints from neighbors as to the keeping of the animals on the
property, the sanitation of the animals, the noise of the animals or any other
significant complaint that has been addressed by the town after permitting
resulting in the permit revocation as described in division (C) below.
         (b)   After an animal permit has been revoked, and the owner wishes to
correct the reasons for revocation and receive a renewed animal permit, the
permit fee will be the same as the initial permit ($40) and letters must be
sent to all residents within 300 feet of the external boundary lines of the lot
described in the application requesting their signature of approval or written
objection. The application must have 75% approval of these residents for the
permit to be reissued, and the owner must provide written explanation of
corrections made that resulted in revocation of the initial permit.
   (C)   Revocation of permit. A permit may be revoked by action of the Board
if it finds, after a hearing at a regular or special meeting of the Board, upon
due notice to the holder of the permit, specifying the reasons for such
revocation, that the conditions of the permit have been violated or that the
holder has been found to have violated any of the terms of this subchapter by
the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 122, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. 126, passed 5-17-1989;
Ord. 200, passed 6-10-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 REMOVAL OF ANIMALS UPON DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any person keeping animals, rabbits or fowl in violation of this subchapter
by reason of denial or revocation of a permit shall remove the same from such
person’s premises within ten days after such denial or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 122, passed 12-11-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 EXISTING ANIMALS.
   A person keeping animals, rabbits or fowl on the effective date hereof shall
have a period of 60 days after such date within which to file an application
for a permit, and until after such period or until an application is finally
acted upon, such person shall not be in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 122, passed 12-11-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Animals generally. No animal shall be permitted to run at large within
the corporate limits of the town. Any such animal so running at large is
declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be a violation of this subchapter for
any person, being the owner of or having charge or control of any such animal,
to permit such animal to run at large contrary to the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Fowl and rabbits. It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any
person who keeps within the corporate limits any fowl or rabbits to fail to
keep the same securely enclosed in a pen or building, or to permit the same to
run at large or go upon the premises of another.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 122, passed 12-11-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The town will not impound animals but will contact the County Sheriff Animal
Control to impound animals on its behalf. The town may charge the animal owner
for any charges it may incur because of this process. The town may call for
removal of animals as listed in §§
90.03 and
90.05 of this code.
(Ord. 199, passed 6-10-2023; Ord. 200, passed 6-10-2023)
**** DOGS ****
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any animal of the canine species regardless of sex.
   DOG OWNER. Every person in possession of or harboring any dog on his or her
property or who shall allow any such dog to remain about his or her premises or
property for a period of at least ten consecutive days.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without provocation, bites or attacks a person or
other animal on public property or in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack while such person is on
public property, including a sidewalk or street.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 90.21 DOG LICENSES AND TAGS.
   (A)   Initial license.
      (1)   The owner, possessor or keeper of any dog within the town shall
secure a license for such dog from the Town Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days of
the dog reaching six months of age, or within 30 days of possession of a dog
that is older than six months of age.
      (2)   Each owner is required to provide the Town Clerk/Treasurer with
proof of rabies vaccination from a licensed veterinarian for each dog at the
time of requesting the initial license. The Town Clerk/Treasurer will provide a
license certificate and numbered tag and record the expiration date of the
rabies vaccination for each license number.
      (3)   The fee for the initial dog license is $15 for a three-year
license, and $6 for a one-year license for a dog that has not been spayed or
neutered and $8 for three-year license, and $3 for a one-year license for a dog
that has been spayed or neutered.
   (B)   Renewed license.
      (1)   Upon expiration date of the rabies vaccination, the dog owner will
have 30 days to renew his or her town dog license and shall provide to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer the rabies certificate with updated expiration date.
      (2)   The fee for renewal dog license is $15 for a three-year license,
and $6 for a one-year license for a dog that has not been spayed or neutered
and $8 for three-year license, and $3 for a one-year license for a dog that has
been spayed or neutered. A late fee of $3 per month will apply for dog licenses
that are not renewed within 30 days of rabies expiration.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 199, passed 6-10-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The Board of Trustees finds, determines and declares that the following
actions of dogs are detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of the town, and declares that it shall be unlawful for any dog
owner to allow his or her “dog,” as defined above, to:
   (A)   Run at large in the town unless said dog is under reasonable control
of the owner. For the purpose of this subchapter, a dog shall be deemed under
such reasonable control when said dog is accompanied by its owner, or some
member of the owner’s family, or with some employee or agent of the owner, with
the dog attached to a leash. Though not all conclusive of the finding of “not
being under reasonable control of the owner,” a dog shall be deemed not under
reasonable control when:
      (1)   Said dog inflicts damage or injury (by biting, jumping upon,
urinating or defecating upon private or public property or by any other means
whatsoever) to the person or property of anyone other than the owner, except in
the defense of the owner, his or her family or property; or
      (2)   In the case of any unspayed female dog, not securely confined in
the owner’s yard, pen or other enclosure.
   (B)   Menace or attack persons or vehicles;
   (C)   Attack other animals;
   (D)   Go upon school premises without the permission of the person in charge
thereof;
   (E)   Bark, whine, howl or make other noise in a manner which, under
nonmitigating circumstances, could be considered, by reasonable persons of
ordinary sensibilities, as excessive or continuous;
   (F)   Damage public property or private property not owned by the owner;
   (G)   Be abandoned;
   (H)   Be tied or otherwise physically fastened to any object on public
property when the owner has departed from the immediate vicinity of the
location where the animal has been physically fastened; or be tied or otherwise
physically fastened on private property so as to create an immediate danger to
the physical well-being of the animal or any person; and
   (I)   Defecate upon public property or private property not owned by the
owner, and such excreta is not immediately removed by the owner at that time.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   Any unspayed female dog, while in heat, shall be securely confined during
such period in the owner’s yard, pen or other enclosure, which shall be so
constructed or situated as to prevent other dogs from gaining access thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4) (Ord. 95, passed 2-11-1971) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall own, keep, possess or harbor a vicious dog within the town.
It shall be the duty of the Town Manager or any law enforcement officers,
employees or agents of the town as designated by the Board of Trustees to take
up and impound any dog which is a vicious dog. In the event a vicious dog
cannot be taken up and caught by the Town Manager or any law enforcement
officers, employees or agents of the town as designated by the Board of
Trustees without exposing himself or herself to danger of personal injury from
such dog, it shall be lawful for the Town Manager or any law enforcement
officers, employees or agents of the town, as designated by the Board of
Trustees forthwith, to destroy such dog without notice to the owner, keeper or
possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5) (Ord. 95, passed 2-11-1971; Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1998;
Ord. 199, passed 6-10-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Confinement or muzzling of dogs during rabies danger. Whenever the
Mayor shall be of the opinion that any danger exists from hydrophobia in the
town or other danger exists from dogs running at large within the town, he or
she shall issue his or her proclamation requiring every owner, possessor or
keeper of any dog within the town to confine or securely muzzle the same for
such time as he or she may designate, during which time it shall be unlawful
for any dog to be within the town unless so securely muzzled with a good and
substantial wire or leather muzzle securely fastened and put on so as to
prevent any such dog from biting. It shall be the duty of the Town Manager or
any law enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town as designated by
the Board of Trustees to take up and impound any dog that may be found during
the time so designated by the Mayor as aforesaid unless muzzled or confined as
herein provided.
   (B)   Confinement of biting dogs. The owner, possessor or keeper of any dog
which has bitten or which is suspected to have bitten any person or which is
suspected of having rabies shall immediately notify the Town Manager or any law
enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town as designated by the
Board of Trustees of such fact. Any dog which has bitten or which is suspected
to have bitten any person or which is believed to have rabies or to have been
exposed to rabies may be confined, upon order of the Town Manager or any law
enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town as designated by the
Board of Trustees, for a period of ten days for observation. Such dog shall
either be confined at the residence of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof,
if such confinement can be accomplished without exposing such dog to the public
or at the option of the Town Manager or any law enforcement officers, employees
or agents of the town, as designated by the Board of Trustees, such dog shall
be confined at the town pound or at a private veterinary hospital at the
expense of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog. It shall be unlawful for
any owner, possessor or keeper of such dog to permit such dog during
confinement to come into contact with the public.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6) (Ord. 95, passed 2-11-1971; Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1998)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 POISONING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to poison any dog or to distribute
poison in any manner whatsoever with the intent or for the purpose of poisoning
any dog within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) (Ord. 95, passed 2-11-1971) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Authority to impound. It shall be lawful for the Town Manager or any
law enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town, as designated by the
Board of Trustees, to impound any dog which is not wearing a dog tag as herein
provided and any which they reasonably feel to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter, whether such dog is wearing a dog tag or not. It
shall be lawful for the Town Manager or any law enforcement officers, employees
or agents of the town, as designated by the Board of Trustees, to go upon
private property for the purpose of catching any dog to be impounded.
   (B)   Dog pound. The Town Manager or any law enforcement officers, employees
or agents of the town, as designated by the Board of Trustees, shall have the
right to establish a dog pound for the town to be operated by town personnel,
or at his or her election, he or she may, subject to the approval of the Board
of Trustees, contract with a public or private person or organization for the
operation of a dog pound for and on behalf of the town.
   (C)   Court proceedings. If a dog is impounded, it shall be the duty of the
Town Manager or any law enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town,
as designated by the Board of Trustees, immediately, to institute proceedings
in the Municipal Court on behalf of the town against the owner, possessor or
keeper of such dog, if known, charging the owner, possessor or keeper with a
violation of the appropriate section of this subchapter. Nothing herein
contained shall be construed as preventing any person from instituting a
proceeding in the Municipal Court for violation of this subchapter where there
is no impoundment.
   (D)   Notice of impoundment. Not later than two days after impoundment, the
Town Manager or any law enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town
as designated by the Board of Trustees shall send, by regular mail, a written
notice of such impoundment to the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog if the
address of such person is known; if the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog
is not known or if his or her address cannot be determined, the Town Manager or
any law enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town, as designated by
the Board of Trustees, shall cause to be posted within two days after
impoundment in a conspicuous place in the town for three consecutive days a
notice of impoundment. Whether the notice herein provided is mailed or posted,
it shall describe the dog, set forth the date of impoundment and set forth the
location from which the dog was taken up.
   (E)   Redemption or disposal of impounded dogs.
      (1)   If a complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court of the town
against the owner, possessor or keeper of any impounded dog for a violation of
this subchapter, then such dog shall not be released from impoundment except on
order from a Municipal Judge. In addition to any penalties which may be
provided for in this subchapter for violation hereof, the Municipal Judge shall
require such owner, possessor or keeper to pay the fees herein provided for in
division (F) below and shall have the authority, upon making a finding that
such dog constitutes a nuisance or that such dog is a vicious dog or that such
dog constitutes a clear and present danger to the citizens of the community, to
order that such dog be destroyed in a humane manner by the Town Manager or any
law enforcement officers, employees or agents of the town, as designated by the
Board of Trustees or by persons authorized to do so by the Mayor.
      (2)   If a complaint has not been filed in Municipal Court because the
owner, possessor or keeper of an impounded dog is not known or cannot be
located and such dog has not been claimed within five days from the date of
impoundment, not counting the first day of impoundment, the dog may be disposed
of in any humane manner prescribed by the Town Manager or any law enforcement
officers, employees or agents of the town as designated by the Board of
Trustees or by persons authorized to do so by the Mayor.
   (F)   Redemption fees. Any owner, possessor or keeper of a dog desiring to
redeem such dog from the pound shall pay the town a sum as shall be as set by
the Board of Trustees from time to time as an impoundment fee, together with a
sum as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time for each day of
impoundment for cost of care and any and all license or rabies inoculation fees
provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8) (Ord. 95, passed 2-11-1971; Ord.134, passed 4-13-1998)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 NOISE ENFORCEMENT.
   The town cannot respond to noise enforcement concerns regarding dogs barking
within the town. All noise complaints must be filed with the County Sheriff’s
office.
(Ord. 199, passed 6-10-2023)
§ 90.29 INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct the Town Manager or any law enforcement officers, employees or agents
of the town, as designated by the Board of Trustees, in the discharge of their
official duties under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9) (Ord. 95, passed 2-11-1971; Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1998)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.06, or failure to continue to comply with any conditions of a permit issued
hereunder, shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
   (C)   (1)   Except for licensing and impoundment penalties, as specifically
set forth in §§
90.20 through
90.29, and except for violations of §§
90.22(A),
90.23 or
90.24, as set forth below, any person violating any provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.29 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty not to exceed an
amount as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time per offense.
      (2)   For the purpose of prosecution for violations of §§
90.20 through
90.29, it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove
notice or knowledge on the part of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog in
question that such dog was violating any of the provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.29 at the time and place charged, it being the purpose and intent of §§
90.20 through
90.29 to impose strict liability upon the owner, possessor or keeper of any dog
for the action, conduct and condition of such dog.
      (3)   For purposes of assessing the penalty for conviction of any person
violating §§
90.22(A),
90.23 or
90.24, an accelerating schedule with penalty amounts as shall be set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time shall apply.
      (4)   The above schedule of fines shall not include lawfully assessed
impound fees or other costs incurred in confining a dog pursuant to §§
90.20 through
90.29.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10)
(Ord. 122, passed 12-11-1984; Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1998; Ord. 171, passed 10-
10-2005)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Nuisances
   
91.01   Conditions declared to be nuisances
   
91.02   Nuisances prohibited; abatement by landowner
   
91.03   Abatement by town; prior notice; legal action
   
91.04   Assessment of costs and collection
Weeds, Brush and Rubbish
   
91.15   Nuisance declared
   
91.16   Duty of property owner to remove
   
91.17   Removal by town; costs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 91.01 CONDITIONS DECLARED TO BE NUISANCES.
   The following conditions, occurring within the corporate limits of the town,
are declared to be a nuisance, and a threat and danger to the health, welfare
and safety of the inhabitants of the town:
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe or not
provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or which are
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use from
time to time constitute a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment (see §§
150.01 through
150.05);
   (B)   The accumulation or growth of trash; garbage; refuse; abandoned
machinery, including motor vehicles; abandoned household appliances; and any
unhealthful growth or substance upon any lot or tract (see §
93.02); and
   (C)   The discharge from any lot or tract or structure thereon of any
unwholesome or nauseous liquid, gas or other substance.
Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 129, passed 3-14-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED; ABATEMENT BY LANDOWNER.
   Each and every nuisance declared or defined by any ordinance of the town or
otherwise is prohibited. Every owner of real property within the town and their
tenants or agents in charge thereof shall be and are required to abate such
nuisance and, thereafter, to prevent the reoccurrence of such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 129, passed 3-14-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; PRIOR NOTICE; LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   In the event of the failure or refusal of any such owner, tenant or
agent to abate a nuisance, in compliance with §
91.02, the town may give notice, in writing, to the owner of the premises where
the nuisance exists, as such owner is shown on the tax rolls of the County
Treasurer, and in the case of a corporation to the registered agent thereof,
giving notice of the nature of the nuisance and informing the owner, and any
known tenant or agent of the property, that if the nuisance is not abated in
the manner and within the time stated in the notice, which time shall not be
less than 30 days nor more than 90 days after service of the notice, the
nuisance may be abated by the town and the cost thereof will be assessed
against the real property in accordance with division (C) below.
   (B)   Such notice shall be given by personal service of a copy of the same
upon the owner of record if he or she can be found within the town limits;
otherwise, notice shall be given by mailing a copy of the notice to the owner
of the property by certified mail, return receipt requested, and such receipt
shall be conclusive proof of the date of service. In the event that the town,
through its designated agent or employee, cannot locate the owner of record of
the property where the nuisance exists, either through personal service or
certified mailing, the town shall also cause a copy of the notice to be affixed
to the front door or other noticeable portion of the subject property, if
improvements are located upon the property. The town may also serve copies of
the notice upon any tenant or agent of the property by personal service or
certified mail.
   (C)   If the nuisance is not abated within the time provided by the notice,
the town may commence an action in the Municipal Court, or any other court of
competent jurisdiction, to obtain a judicial determination that the nuisance
exists, to obtain an order that the nuisance be abated, specifying the manner
of such abatement; awarding the town its costs, attorneys’ fees and expenses of
abatement; and assessing a fine and costs against the owner, if the court deems
that such fine is appropriate. The provisions of this division (C) shall not
preclude the Board, or its designated employee or agent, from meeting with the
owner of the property where the nuisance exists prior to commencing such
action, to discuss the nuisance and allow the owner to show cause, if he or she
has any, why the nuisance does not exist, how the nuisance may be abated or to
discuss reasonable alternatives or timetables for the abatement of the
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 148, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 91.04 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Upon judicial determination of the costs of abatement, a statement
showing the cost and expense of such work for each parcel of real estate, by
separate ownership, shall be filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, who shall
present the same to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting, and the
Board thereupon shall determine and assess the amount properly chargeable
against each such parcel and its owner on account of such abatement work.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer, forthwith after the making of such assessment as
provided in division (A) above, shall send, by ordinary mail, addressed to each
such owner at his or her last known address, a notice of such assessment and a
statement of the amount thereof, and the Clerk/Treasurer shall file in the
records of the town a certification of such mailing. If such owner shall fail,
neglect or refuse to pay such assessment within 30 days after the mailing of
such notice, the Clerk/Treasurer shall certify said assessment to the County
Treasurer or to the county officer having custody of the tax list at the time
of such certification, to be by such officer placed upon the tax rolls for the
current year and to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are
collected, with a 10% penalty thereon to defray the cost of collection, as
provided by law, and the same shall be a lien upon each such parcel of real
property until paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 129, passed 3-14-1994)
**** WEEDS, BRUSH AND RUBBISH ****
§ 91.15 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All weeds, brush and rubbish on private property and on adjoining alleys and
adjoining streets and avenues to the curb lines thereof within the town are
declared to be a nuisance and a threat and danger to the health, welfare and
safety of the inhabitants of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 117, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER TO REMOVE.
   Every owner of real property within the corporate limits of the town and the
tenants or agents in charge thereof shall be and are required to cut and remove
all weeds from said property and adjoining alleys and adjoining streets and
avenues to the curb line and to remove all brush and rubbish therefrom and keep
and maintain said property, alley and portion of street and avenue free from
weeds, brush or rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 117, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 REMOVAL BY TOWN; COSTS.
   (A)   Authority to remove; notice; costs. In the event of the failure or
refusal of any such owner, tenants or agent to comply with the provisions of §
91.16, the town shall have the power and authority to destroy or remove such
weeds, brush and rubbish and to assess the cost thereof against the real
property as provided in this subchapter; provided, however, that not less than
15 days prior to the exercise of such power, the town, through its duly acting
Clerk/Treasurer, shall first give notice, in writing, to the landowner and to
the tenant or agent in charge, by registered mail, at the last known address of
such persons, giving notice that if the weeds, brush and rubbish are not
removed from the premises on or before 15 days from the date of such notice,
such removal will be done by the town and the cost thereof, including cost of
inspection and other incidental costs, will be assessed against the real
property.
   (B)   Costs assessed. Upon completion of the work provided for in division
(A) above, a statement showing the cost and expense of such work for each
parcel of real estate by separate ownership shall be filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer, who shall present the same to the Board of Trustees at its next
regular meeting, and the Board, thereupon, shall determine and assess the
amount properly chargeable against each such parcel and its owner on account of
such work and any charges incidental thereto.
   (C)   Notice of assessment; lien. The Clerk/Treasurer, forthwith after the
making of such assessment as provided in division (B) above, shall send, by
ordinary mail, addressed to each such owner at his or her last known address, a
notice of such assessment and a statement of the amount thereof, and the Clerk/
Treasurer shall file in the records of the town a certification of such
mailing. If such owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to pay such assessment
within 30 days after the mailing of such notice, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
certify said assessment to the County Treasurer or to the county officer having
custody of the tax list at the time of such certification, to be, by such
officer, placed upon the tax rolls for the current year and to be collected in
the same manner as other taxes are collected, with a 10% penalty thereon to
defray the cost of collection, as provided by law, and the same shall be a lien
upon each such parcel of real property until paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 117, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §§
91.01 through
91.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99, notwithstanding that an assessment may have been made as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §§
91.15 through
91.17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4)
(Ord. 117, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 129, passed 3-14-1994; Ord. 154, passed 9-10-
2001)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Prohibited acts
   
92.03   Public displays, permits
   
92.04   License issuance for manufacture, wholesale or retail
   
92.05   Responsibility to remove combustibles
   
92.06   Educational rockets
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Any article, device or substance prepared for the primary purpose
of producing a visual or auditory sensation by combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation, including, without limitation, the following
articles and devices commonly known and used as fireworks: toy cannons or toy
canes in which explosives are used, blank cartridges, the type of balloon which
requires fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, rockets, Roman candles, dayglo bombs and torches, or other
fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or
flammable compound, or any tablets or other devices containing any explosive
substance.
      (2)   FIREWORKS does not include toy caps which do not contain more than
twenty-five one-hundredths of a grain of explosive compound per cap; sparklers,
trick matches, cigarette loads, trick noisemakers, toy smoke devices and
novelty auto alarms; or highway flares, railway fusees, ship distress signals,
smoke candles and other emergency signal devices.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Except as provided for in this subchapter, it shall be a misdemeanor for any
person to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell or have in his or her
possession with intent to offer for sale, sell, use or explode any fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC DISPLAYS, PERMITS.
   The Board of Trustees has the authority to grant permits for supervised
public displays of fireworks. The application for permit shall be made at least
15 days in advance of the date of display. Every display shall be handled by a
competent operator and shall be of such a character and so located, discharged
and fired as not to be hazardous to property, or endanger any person. Before a
permit is granted, the operator and location and handling of the display shall
be approved, after investigation, by the Fire Chief. No such permit shall be
transferable or assignable. The Board of Trustees shall require a performance
bond from the permittee in a sum of not less than an amount as shall be set by
the Board of Trustees from time to time conditioned upon compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The town shall not be required to post a bond
for displays which it produces.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE FOR MANUFACTURE, WHOLESALE OR RETAIL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may grant a license for a person or organization
to manufacture, wholesale or retail fireworks within the town. The license
shall be valid for a period of 12 months from the date of issuance and a
license fee shall be set by resolution of the Board of Trustees. No license
shall be issued until such time as the person making application has filed with
the Town Clerk/Treasurer proof of public liability insurance in an amount to be
specified by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The license shall not issue unless the Board of Trustees finds the
following to be facts:
      (1)   The applicant, or if a corporation, its officers and directors, is/
are of good moral character and reputation and in determining character, the
Board of Trustees be governed by the provisions of C.R.S. § 24-5-101, as
amended;
      (2)   The applicant has no plan, intent or scheme to make sales
prohibited by state law; and
      (3)   The applicant has obtained a license to manufacture, wholesale or
retail fireworks from the Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 92.05 RESPONSIBILITY TO REMOVE COMBUSTIBLES.
   The Town Marshal shall seize, take and remove, at the expense of the owner,
all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale, stored or
held contrary to the provisions of this code or state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 92.06 EDUCATIONAL ROCKETS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent or regulate the manufacture, sale,
use or possession of educational rockets and toy propellant device type engines
used in such rockets when such rockets are of nonmetallic construction and
utilize replaceable engines or model cartridges containing less than two ounces
of propellant when such engine or model cartridge is designed to be ignited by
electrical means.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
CHAPTER 93: JUNK, JUNKED VEHICLES AND JUNKYARDS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Nuisances declared; exceptions
   
93.03   Abatement procedures
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Old or scrap metal, appliances or equipment, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, trash, rubber, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked
automobiles; appliances, equipment or parts thereof; iron, steel, tin, aluminum
and other old scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle formerly used for transportation on public
streets and highways which does not have a current license and registration
and/or has been practically inoperative, either by operation of law or as a
matter of fact, for a period of 60 days or longer. PRACTICALLY INOPERATIVE
shall mean the vehicle is incapable of being safely driven, under its own
power, upon the streets and highways of the state.
   JUNKYARD. Any establishment or place of business maintained, operated or
used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk or for the maintenance or
operation of junked vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE COLLECTOR.
      (1)   The owner of one or more vehicles of historic or special interest
who collects, purchases, acquires, trades or disposes of these vehicles or
parts thereof for his or her own use in order to preserve, restore and maintain
a vehicle for hobby purposes or uses; or
      (2)   A bona fide member of a national automobile club or association
whose charter recognizes in membership a sincere demonstration of interest in
the history of automotive engineering, in the preservation of antique vintage
or special interest motor vehicles, in a sharing of knowledge and experience
with other automotive enthusiasts and in the promotion of good fellowship among
such members or collectors.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 93.02 NUISANCES DECLARED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Junk or junked vehicles. Junk and junked vehicles are deemed to be a
nuisance.
      (1)   Junk; notice to remove, time limit. No owner of any lot, block or
parcel of ground within the town, nor any tenant or agent in charge thereof,
shall allow or permit any junk to remain on such lot, block or parcel of
ground; on or along any sidewalk adjoining the same; or in the alley adjoining
the same to remain on the property longer than 30 days after receiving notice
to remove such junk.
      (2)   Junked vehicles, equipment or parts; removal required, time limit.
No owner of any lot, block or parcel of ground within the town, nor any tenant
or agent in charge thereof, shall allow or permit any junked, discarded or
partially wrecked vehicle, equipment or parts thereof to remain on such lot,
block or parcel of ground; or on or along any sidewalk adjoining the same; or
in the alley adjoining the same, to remain on the property longer than 30 days
once the vehicle has been defined as a junked vehicle.
   (B)   Junkyards. Junkyards are allowed only in such districts as may be
allowed, if at all, in
Chapter 155. Any junkyards not thus allowed are deemed to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to a motor vehicle dealer or
a used motor vehicle dealer who is licensed and in compliance with all
applicable state statutes, and provided that the operation of the business
complies with all local, state and federal rules, laws and regulations
applicable to the sale of motor vehicles. Further, a motor vehicle collector
may store motor vehicles, as described in C.R.S. §§ 42-12-101 et seq., or parts
thereof, on his or her private property; provided such vehicles and parts, cars
and the outdoor storage areas are maintained in such manner that they do not
constitute a health hazard, a safety hazard or a fire hazard, and are
effectively screened from ordinary public view by means of a solid fence,
trees, shrubbery or other appropriate means approved by the Board. Such storage
areas shall be kept free of weeds, trash and other objectionable items.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
91.01(B)
§ 93.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The town shall remedy or abate any nuisance as defined by this chapter in
the following manner.
   (A)   If any owner, tenant or agent in charge of real property shall allow a
nuisance to exist on any lot, block or parcel or alley for longer than 30 days
after being notified, in writing, to remove the nuisance, by the designated
appointed town employee or agent, by personal service or registered or
certified mail, the designated town official may direct that the nuisance be
abated or caused to be abated by the town, and charge the cost thereof to such
owner, tenant or agent in charge, together with 5% additional fee of the total
cost for inspection and other incidentals. The town may also, at its option,
cite the offending party or parties to appear in the Municipal Court, prior to
abatement procedures being implemented. In the event that the matter is placed
before the Municipal Court, the costs of abatement may include the legal costs
incurred by the town in enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Upon abatement being taken by the town, the offending party or parties
shall have 30 days to pay the assessment. Failure to pay such assessment shall
cause such assessment to become a lien against such lot, block or parcel of
land which assessment shall have priority over all liens, except general taxes
and prior special assessments, and the same may be certified at any time, after
such failure to so pay the same, within 30 days, by the Town Clerk to the
County Treasurer to be placed upon the tax list for the current year and to be
collected in the same manner as other taxes are collected, with 10% penalty to
defray the cost of collection.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity found to be guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this chapter may be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day or portion thereof during which any violation of the provisions of this
chapter are committed, continued or permitted. Such offense may be punishable
by a fine not to exceed a sum as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from
time to time per offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 154, passed 9-10-2001)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   MARIJUANA FACILITIES
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT SALES
      
113.   POOL HALLS
      
114.   YARD OR GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
   
110.01   Fermented malt beverage license; fee
   
110.02   Malt, vinous and spirituous liquor licenses; fees
§ 110.01 FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGE LICENSE; FEE.
   The town shall collect an annual license fee for the issuance of fermented
malt beverage licenses in the amount set forth in the statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 110.02 MALT, VINOUS AND SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR LICENSES; FEES.
   The town, upon application and approval as provided by law, may issue malt,
vinous and spirituous liquor licenses upon payment of the license fee provided
by statute as well as any application and necessary expenses.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
CHAPTER 111: MARIJUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and prohibition
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Enforcement
   
111.04   Violation
   
111.05   Scope
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND PROHIBITION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general public welfare and
safety throughout the town and, as such, upon the passage of this chapter, the
operation of marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing
facilities, marijuana testing facilities or retail marijuana stores within the
incorporated areas of the town shall be strictly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 191, passed 9-16-2013) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, any terms used
herein shall have the same meanings as provided in Article XVIII, § 16 of the
Colorado Constitution. These definitions include, but are not limited to the
following.
   MARIJUANA or MARIHUANA. All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of
the plant and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant, its seeds or its resin, including marijuana
concentrate. MARIJUANA or MARIHUANA does not include industrial hemp, nor does
it include fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of
the plant, sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination or
the weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical
or oral administrations, food, drink or other product.
   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, products or materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing or containing marijuana, or for ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY. An entity licensed to cultivate, prepare and
package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to marijuana
product manufacturing facilities and to other marijuana cultivation facilities,
but not to consumers.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana
testing facility, a marijuana product manufacturing facility or a retail
marijuana store.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. An entity licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare and package marijuana products; and sell
marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Concentrated marijuana products and marijuana products
that are comprised of marijuana and other ingredients and are intended for use
or consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible products, ointments and
tinctures.
   MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. An entity licensed to analyze and certify the
safety and potency of marijuana.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTER. An entity licensed by a state agency to sell
marijuana and marijuana products pursuant to § 14 of Article XVIII of the
Colorado Constitution and the State Medical Marijuana Code, being C.R.S. §§ 44-
10-101 et seq.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE. An entity licensed to purchase marijuana from
marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products from
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana
products to consumers.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 191, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 111.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the town and Ordinance Enforcement Officer
as appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 191, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 111.04 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter. All violations of this chapter shall be brought in the Municipal
Court.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4) (Ord. 191, passed 9-16-2013) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply within the incorporated town. This chapter shall in
no way limit application and enforcement of any state statutes but shall be in
addition thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7) (Ord. 191, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Disposition of fines and forfeitures. Unless otherwise provided by
law, all fines and penalties, and the surcharge thereon, for the violation of
this chapter, shall be paid into the Town Treasury. The fine for a first
offense and for any subsequent offense shall be up to an amount as shall be set
by the Board of Trustees from time to time per violation and each day shall be
deemed a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5)
   (B)   Surcharges. In addition to the fines and penalties prescribed in this
chapter, any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject
to the statutory surcharges as may be adopted and imposed by the Municipal
Court. These surcharges shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer by each
person convicted of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6)
(Ord. 191, passed 9-16-2013)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT SALES
Section
   
112.01   Permit required
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Exemptions from chapter
   
112.04   Transient sales permit – application; fees; permit approval/denial
   
112.05   Verification of information; background check of applicant
   
112.06   Conduct of business; prohibited acts; same declared as nuisance
   
112.07   Exhibition of permit
   
112.08   Record of transient sales permits
   
112.09   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to solicit, peddle or otherwise engage
in transient sales of goods, wares, merchandise, products, personal property or
services, as defined in §
112.02, within the town limits without first procuring a permit as provided in
this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful to sell goods, wares, merchandise, chattels or personal
property of any kind whatsoever at public auction or by hawking or peddling the
same within the town limits, unless such person shall be first procured a
permit therefor, as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   It is unlawful to operate for gain or hire within the town limits any
striking machine, ring game, ball and puppet game, cane rack, knife board or
other similar game or device typically associated with carnival or fair type
activities, unless such person shall have first procured a permit therefor, as
hereinafter provided. Approval for such permits rests within the discretion of
the Board.
   (D)   It is unlawful to hold or exhibit any boxing bout or any similar
performance within the town limits, unless such person (or sponsor) shall have
first procured a permit therefor, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from place to place by any type of
conveyance, carrying his or her goods, wares and merchandise with him or her,
offering and exhibiting such goods, wares and merchandise for sale; or any
person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for
sale from any type of vehicle or conveyance. A PEDDLER generally offers for
sale, consummates the sale and delivers the goods at one and the same time to
the ultimate purchaser or consumer. Any person who solicits, orders and, as a
separate transaction, makes deliveries to the purchaser as part of a scheme or
design to evade the provisions of this definition shall be deemed to be
peddling and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place within the town
boundaries by any type of conveyance taking or attempting to take orders for
the sale of goods, wares and merchandise; personal property; or services of any
kind whatsoever for future delivery, whether or not such person has, carries or
exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether or not he or
she is collecting advance payment on such sales.
   TRANSIENT SELLER. Any person, either as principal or agent, who engages in a
business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise or services
from a temporary fixed location within the town, and who, in the furtherance of
such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, room,
apartment, lot, parking lot, street, sidewalk or other place, whether public or
private, within the town, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and
merchandise, either privately or at an auction. Any person who engages in
transient selling shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of
this chapter by reason of associating himself or herself with any established
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting transient
selling in connection with as part of, or in the name of any established local
dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting transient selling in
connection with, as part of, or in the name of any established local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer. If the conduct of any person falls within the
definitions of both peddler and transient selling as contained in this section,
he or she shall be deemed to be TRANSIENT selling for the purposes of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   (A)   Religious, educational and charitable nonprofit organizations shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Town resident yard and garage sales of less than two days in duration
and less than seven days in any particular year shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Vendors, merchants, exhibitors and salespersons who exhibit,
demonstrate or solicit orders for goods, wares or merchandise in conjunction
with a town-sponsored event, or as part of an organized program of conventions,
professional meetings, trade association meetings, seminars or other similar
meetings held at hotels, motels or public or private meeting areas within the
town shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Any art or crafts fair, show, exhibition of arts, crafts or similar
handiwork or town-wide celebrations, observances or special events, such as an
annual sidewalk or parking lot sale, which includes more than five exhibitions
or merchants, shall be exempt from this chapter; provided that the event
sponsor advise the Town Clerk/Treasurer of the name and address of the event
sponsor, purpose and duration of the event, number of exhibitions or merchants
taking part in the event and the location of the event.
   (E)   Any person who exhibits a privately-owned vehicle for sale on private
property or who temporarily parks a privately-owned vehicle on which a “for
sale” sign is displayed shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Wholesale and distributor representatives servicing existing
businesses in the town or such representatives soliciting new business with
existing businesses in the town shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   Vending machines, coin-operated amusement machines, signs and
billboards shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Private sales made by telephone or mail appointment where the
solicitor is invited to a private residence shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 112.04 TRANSIENT SALES PERMIT – APPLICATION; FEES; PERMIT APPROVAL/ DENIAL.
   (A)   Any person transacting any business or selling activity defined in
this chapter shall first obtain from the Town Clerk/Treasurer a permit before
engaging in any such selling or soliciting activities. This permit shall be
referred to as a “transient sales permit.” Applicants must be at least 18 years
of age. Each sales representative of the permitted business must have a copy of
the permit on his or her person.
   (B)   Persons requesting a transient sales permit shall provide the
following information to the Town Clerk/Treasurer on an application furnished
by the Town Clerk/Treasurer:
      (1)   Applicant’s name; date of birth; driver’s license or state
identification number, or other form of photo identification; home and business
address; and telephone numbers;
      (2)   Description and license numbers of vehicles used for the transient
sales activity;
      (3)   Name, date of birth, social security number, driver’s license
number and home address of each sales representative operating under this
permit;
      (4)   Name of business firm represented and parent company, if any, state
tax resale number, federal tax identification number and a brief description of
the nature of the business and goods being sold;
      (5)   Location(s) and/or method the applicant intends to use to conduct
business (such as selling out of home or building, selling out of car/truck,
concession stand or booth or door-to-door sales and the like); and
      (6)   Length of time the applicant intends to be doing business under
this permit.
   (C)   Permit fees shall be paid at the time of application and prior to
issuance of the permit. Permits are non-transferable. The Town Clerk/Treasurer
or designee may impose conditions on the approval of permits, including, but
not limited to, cleanup, sanitation or security measures. The fees to be paid
for the issuance of permits shall be established by resolution of the Board
during the first regular meeting of each year and kept or posted in the office
of the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The cost of the permits shall vary in amount as to
the applicant’s need to have a permit issued for a day, for a season or for a
year.
   (D)   The transient sales permit shall contain the permit number, the name
of the applicant and his or her representatives, business name, description of
the type of goods to be sold or business activity, location where sales will
take place and/or method of sales, any special conditions, date of issuance and
expiration and the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s signature.
   (E)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer may deny an application for, or suspend or
revoke, a transient sales permit based on the criminal record,
misrepresentation, fraud, deceit or impropriety of the applicant or his or her
representatives or other grounds that such transient business would not be in
the best interest of the town or its citizens. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
give the applicant or permit holder prompt written notice and an opportunity
for an appeal hearing before the Board. If the applicant or permit holder
requests an appeal hearing, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall provide written
notice of the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed
postage prepaid by regular United States mail at least five days prior to the
date set for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION; BACKGROUND CHECK OF APPLICANT.
   Upon receipt of an application, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall verify
information on the application and provide a copy of the application to the
Town Police Department. The Police Department may conduct a criminal background
check and provide the results to the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall also coordinate the application with the Town Maintenance Chief
to ensure the proposed transient business will not interfere with public works
operations during the specified time period.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 112.06 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS; PROHIBITED ACTS; SAME DECLARED AS NUISANCE.
   (A)   No solicitor, peddler or transient seller shall:
      (1)   Sell from any location within the town limits without a valid
transient sales permit;
      (2)   Carry on his or her business upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park
or any other public place, unless specified on the permit that such business
activity in such public place be permitted thereunder;
      (3)   Park or stand his or her sales stand, wagon, automobile or other
vehicle upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area, street, alley, highway or public
thoroughfare so as to obstruct free travel thereon;
      (4)   Enter into a sale with any individual under the age of 18, unless
provided for in the permit;
      (5)   Enter into any sale with any individual who appears to be
intoxicated or under the influence of drugs;
      (6)   Knowingly provide any inaccurate, false or misleading information
with respect to required records of any transactions conducted by the permit
holder; and
      (7)   Enter into any private residence or premises in conjunction with
transient sale business without having first been invited or requested by the
owner or occupant of such residence or premises.
   (B)   Any of the above-described prohibited activity committed by
solicitors, peddlers or transient sellers shall be declared as a violation of
this section and shall be deemed to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 EXHIBITION OF PERMIT.
   Transient sales permit holders are required to exhibit their license at the
request of any town officer or citizen, and each authorized sales
representative must have a copy of the permit on his or her person. In
addition, any transient sales permit holder(s) are required to exhibit their
driver’s license or other state issued identification upon the request of any
town officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 RECORD OF TRANSIENT SALES PERMITS.
   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a record of all permits issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and all permit fees shall be paid
into the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 112.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Police Department to enforce the provisions
of this chapter as to any solicitor, peddler or transient seller found to be
engaged in business without a valid transient sales permit or in violation of
any other provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Upon the conviction of any person or persons charged with a violation of
this chapter or any provisions thereof, such person or persons shall be guilty
of a petty offense and shall be subject to a fine as imposed by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-2015)
CHAPTER 113: POOL HALLS
Section
   
113.01   Hours of operation
   
113.02   Minors prohibited
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No pool or billiard hall which sells liquor shall be operated or kept open
on Sunday or from 12:00 midnight until 6:00 a.m. the other days of the week.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 75, passed 1-10-1955; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall be permitted or allowed to
frequent or be in or about any pool or billiard hall licensed under the terms
of this chapter, nor shall any such person be allowed to play any games in said
places; except that persons between the ages of 14 and 17 years of age,
inclusive, may be in such pool or billiard halls and may play games therein if
they have on file with the licensee a valid permit containing the consent of
one of the parents or guardians having the care and custody of such persons
signed by such parent or guardian in the presence of the licensee on a form
designated by the Mayor. A permit may be revoked at any time at the request of
either of the parents or guardians, whereupon, it shall be returned to the
person revoking the same.
   (B)   All such licensees shall place, in a conspicuous position on the
premises licensed, a sign bearing the following words:
“No persons under 18 years of age allowed here without parent’s consent.
Absolutely no persons under 14 years of age allowed here.”
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 82, passed 7-13-1959; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any person
failing to secure a license as herein provided, upon conviction, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99; and, upon conviction, such license will be revoked, unless the licensee
shall appear before the Town Board and show cause why the license should not be
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 75, passed 1-10-1955; Ord. 146, passed 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 114: YARD OR GARAGE SALES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Limitations
   
114.04   Notification to Town Clerk/Treasurer
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to limit and regulate the number of yard or
garage sales that can be held at any one location during a period of one year
in a residential district within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 133, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCATION. Any part of the physical address given by the town to a site
wherein a yard or garage sale is held.
   YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE. The offering for sale of new or used items of
personalty, for gain, by a person, persons or other entity, from the yard,
driveway, garage or any other portion of a subject location in a residential
area. YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE shall not refer to a sidewalk or other similar
outdoor site owned or operated by an established business in a commercial or
industrial district, and used for the sale of retail goods. Further, a YARD
SALE or GARAGE SALE shall not refer to a home occupation as defined in the
town’s zoning ordinance. (See
Chapter 155.)
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2) (Ord. 133, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 114.03 LIMITATIONS.
   No person, persons or other entity shall be allowed to conduct, hold,
operate or allow the conducting, holding or operation of a yard or garage sale
at a location more than four times over a period of 365 consecutive days.
Should a yard or garage sale carry over into subsequent days, each day shall be
counted toward the four-day allowed maximum. The Board may, at its discretion,
allow additional days for the holding of a yard or garage sale upon written
request from the applicant and for good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 133, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 NOTIFICATION TO TOWN CLERK/TREASURER.
   No later than 24 hours prior to the holding of a yard or garage sale, the
owner of the subject location shall provide notice to the Town Clerk/Treasurer
of such sale and the Town Clerk/Treasurer will register such sale date for
purposes of compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4) (Ord. 133, passed 4-13-1998)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Involving Minors
   
130.01   Halloween curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
**** OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS ****
§ 130.01 HALLOWEEN CURFEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The Town Board of Trustees finds that, from time to time in
prior years, on the evening of October 31 and the early morning hours of
November 1, persons under the age of 18 years have created disturbances in the
streets of the town, have trespassed on private property, have carried away or
removed property without the consent of its owner, have created noise
inappropriate for the hour and have created an unreasonable burden upon the law
enforcement officers of the town, and the Board further finds that it is
necessary to restrict the movements of such persons on the streets of the town
at such times when the activity aforesaid is most likely to occur.
   (B)   Age and hour restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person under
the age of 18 years to be or remain upon any street, alley or other public
place in the town subsequent to the hour of 11:00 p.m. or prior to the hour of
5:00 a.m. on October 30, October 31 and November 1, except for lawful
employment or unless there exists a reasonable necessity therefor or unless
such person is accompanied by the parent, guardian or other person of the age
of 21 years or older having permission of the parent or guardian to have the
custody and care of such person.
   (C)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. It shall be unlawful for any
parent, guardian or other person having care or custody of any person under the
age of 18 years to allow or permit any such child to be or remain upon any
street, alley or other public place in the town subsequent to the hour of 11:00
p.m. or prior to the hour of 5:00 a.m. on October 30, October 31 and November
1, except for lawful employment or unless there exists a reasonable necessity
therefor or unless such person is accompanied by the parent, guardian or other
person of the age of 21 years or older having permission of the parent or
guardian to have the custody and care of such person.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 90, passed 10-10-1967) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of §
130.01 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 90, passed 10-10-1967)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Use of weapons unlawful; exceptions
   
131.02   Parent responsible for minor’s use
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 USE OF WEAPONS UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a law enforcement officer in the
performance of his or her duties, to fire, shoot or discharge a revolver or
pistol of any description, shotgun or rifle which may be used for the explosion
of cartridges or any air gun, gas-operated gun or spring gun or any instrument,
toy or weapon, commonly known as a “pea shooter,” “slingshot” or “beanie,” or
any bow made for the purpose of throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by
any means whatsoever, whether such instrument is called by any name set forth
herein or by any other name; provided that nothing in this section shall
prevent the use of such instruments in any private grounds or residence under
circumstances when such instruments can be fired, discharged or operated in
such a manner as not to endanger persons or property and in such a manner as to
prevent the projectile from traversing any grounds or space outside the limits
of such private grounds or residence.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 100, passed 8-12-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 PARENT RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR’S USE.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having legal
control or custody of any minor to allow said minor to fire, shoot or discharge
any instrument or weapon described in §
131.01 contrary to its terms.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 100, passed 8-12-1974) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, on
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 100, passed 8-12-1974)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
      
152.   STREETS
      
153.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.01   Purpose and scope
   
150.02   Dangerous building defined
   
150.03   Nuisance declared; prohibited
   
150.04   Enforcement; inspection; determination
   
150.05   Abatement; proceedings
Electrical Installations
   
150.20   Compliance with Electrical Code
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Authority to disconnect
   
150.23   Permit required
   
150.24   Liability
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building nuisance abatement by landowner, see
Chapter 91
   Property owner duty to remove weeds, brush and rubbish, see
Chapter 91
**** DANGEROUS BUILDINGS ****
§ 150.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a just, equitable and
practicable method whereby buildings or structures, which, from any cause,
endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the
general public or their occupants may be required to be repaired, vacated or
demolished.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all dangerous
buildings, as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter
become dangerous within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 139, passed 1-11-1999)
§ 150.02 DANGEROUS BUILDING DEFINED.
   A DANGEROUS BUILDING is any building or structure deemed to be dangerous
under any of the following provisions:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (B)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (C)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed by the Uniform Building Code for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
   (D)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the building code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
   (E)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified in the
building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building code for such
buildings;
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (H)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction; removal, movement or
instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause is likely to partially or completely collapse;
   (I)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become
an attractive nuisance to children; a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral
persons; or as to enable persons to resort thereof for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts;
   (M)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement; inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities; or otherwise, is determined by a town, county or state health
officer, or caseworker to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such
a condition that it is likely to cause sickness or disease;
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Town Fire Marshal,
or appropriate county or state officials, to be a fire hazard;
   (O)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or by state statute; and
   (P)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 139, passed 1-11-1999)
§ 150.03 NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITED.
   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by
the Building Official to be dangerous, as defined in this subchapter, are
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 139, passed 1-11-1999) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
91.01(A)
§ 150.04 ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTION; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Town Board shall appoint a building official to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. Such Building Official shall have at least the
minimum training or education necessary to interpret and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Official and Fire Marshal are authorized to make such
inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (C)   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter, or when the Building Official or the Building Official’s
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation
of this subchapter which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or
hazardous, the Building Official may enter the building or premises at
reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this
subchapter; provided that if such building or premises is occupied that
credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such building
or premises are unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building
Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 139, passed 1-11-1999)
§ 150.05 ABATEMENT; PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   When the Building Official has inspected or caused to be inspected any
building and has found and determined that such building is a dangerous
building, the Building Official shall commence proceedings to cause the repair,
vacation or demolition of the building.
   (B)   The Building Official shall issue a notice and order directed to the
record owner of the building.
      (1)   The notice and order shall contain the following:
         (a)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
         (b)   A statement that the Building Official has found the building to
be dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of this subchapter;
         (c)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by
the Building Official. Such statement of action may be one of the following.
            1.   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that the owner obtain all
necessary permits, if any, and that all repairs commence within such time (not
to exceed 60 days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the Building Official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances.
            2.   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the Building Official to be reasonable.
            3.   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the Building Official shall determine is reasonable
(not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order); that all required permits
be secured therefor within 60 days from the date of the order; and that the
demolition be completed within such time as the Building Official shall
determine is reasonable.
         (d)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition
work is not commenced within the time specified, the Building Official will
order the building vacated and posted to prevent further occupancy until the
work is completed and may proceed to cause the work to be done and charge the
costs thereof against the property or its owner;
         (e)   Statements advising that any person having any record title or
legal interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order or any
action of the Building Official to the Town Board; provided the appeal is made
in writing and filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days from the date
of service of such notice and order; and that failure to appeal in a timely
manner will constitute a waiver of all right to an appeal hearing. Any appeal
shall state with specificity the reasons for the appeal; and
         (f)   Statements advising that the order may be enforced by the
Municipal Court for the town.
      (2)   Service of the notice and order may be made upon the owner of the
property by either mailing a copy of the notice and order to the owner by
certified mail, delivering a copy of the notice and order to the owner at his
or her address or wherever he or she may be found and/or by posting such notice
and order to the front door or other visible portion of the subject property.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 139, passed 1-11-1999)
**** ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS ****
§ 150.20 COMPLIANCE WITH ELECTRICAL CODE.
   All electrical installations in the town shall be in accordance with the
rules and requirements contained in the latest edition of the National
Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 29, passed 2-13-1922) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS and INSTALLATIONS, as used in this
subchapter, shall include all electric wiring and wiring construction and the
installation of all electrical appliances and equipment.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 29, passed 2-13-1922)
§ 150.22 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT.
   The State Inspector is authorized to have service disconnected from such
installations as may, in his or her judgment, be hazardous to property or life,
such installation not to be again connected to service until brought into
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and a certificate of
approval be issued by the State Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 29, passed 2-13-1922)
§ 150.23 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
150.22, no existing installation shall be added to or altered until a permit
therefor shall has been obtained from the State Inspector, and current shall
not be thereafter turned on until the issuance of a certificate of approval as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 29, passed 2-13-1922) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 LIABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from responsibility any
person owning, operating or installing electrical installations for damages to
persons or property by any defect in such installations, nor shall the town, or
any agent thereof, be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the
inspections and issuance of certificates as herein authorized.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 29, passed 2-13-1922)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or permit the
same to be done in violation of the terms of §§
150.01 through
150.05. Those persons or entities in violation of the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.05 may be subject to a fine not to exceed an amount as shall be set by the
Board of Trustees from time to time for each violation of §§
150.01 through
150.05, for each day that the property is not in compliance with the provisions
of §§
150.01 through
150.05.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
   (C)   Any person refusing, neglecting or failing to install electrical
appliances in accordance with §§
150.20 through
150.24 or who shall add to or alter any existing installation without a permit
therefor shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
(Ord. 29, passed 2-13-1922; Ord. 139, passed 1-11-1999)
CHAPTER 151: SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
Section
   
151.01   Sidewalk construction requirements
   
151.02   Curb and gutter construction requirements
   
151.03   Supervision
   
151.04   Construction and repair procedure
   
151.05   Assessments
   
151.06   Sidewalk repairs
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All sidewalks hereafter constructed, rebuilt or repaired
upon and along any street or avenue of the town shall be constructed, rebuilt
or repaired by the owner or owners of the lot or lots abutting thereon and at
the expense of said owner or owners as hereinafter in this chapter provided,
and shall be constructed, rebuilt and repaired of the materials and in the
manner as in this chapter provided and not otherwise.
   (B)   Construction specifications.
      (1)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed shall be constructed of cement;
all cement construction to be of rough, float finish and the mixture thereof
shall not be less than one part cement and five parts of gravel; no sidewalks
shall be less than four inches in thickness and shall have close fitting joints
and an unbroken continuous surface; provided that in the repair of sidewalks
now existing, the kind of material may be used of which such walks were
originally constructed.
      (2)   (a)   All sidewalks upon and along Main Avenue from the Kyle
Railroad right-of-way to 5th Street shall be of a uniform width of ten feet and
shall be constructed with the inside edge thereof along the lot line and with
the outside edge thereof along the edge of the curbing; all other sidewalks
within the town shall be of a uniform width of five feet with the inside edge
thereof a uniform distance of one foot from the lot line; provided that the
Board of Trustees may, at any time, designate a different width for any
sidewalks, in which event, due notice thereof shall be given to those affected
thereby.
         (b)   All sidewalks shall slope to the outer edge thereof in the
proportion of one inch to each five feet of width or fraction thereof.
      (3)   All sidewalks whether now existing or hereafter constructed shall
be laid according to the established grades of the town, and not otherwise, and
before any sidewalk shall be constructed, rebuilt or repaired, the owner or
owners of the property along which said sidewalk abuts shall apply to the Board
of Trustees, or to the officer designated by it, to lay out, stake and
establish the grade thereof and said owner or owners shall construct, rebuild
or repair said sidewalk as so laid out and staked; and any sidewalk now
existing or hereafter constructed, which does not conform to the established
grades or width requirements of this chapter may be by order of the Board of
Trustees repaired and rebuilt in the manner as is hereafter, in this chapter,
provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Responsibility for construction and costs. All curbs and gutters
hereafter constructed in the town shall be constructed by and at the expense of
the owner or owners of the property abutting thereon.
   (B)   Construction specifications.
      (1)   All curbs shall be of uniform height of eight inches and of a
uniform width of six inches, and all curbs shall slope back two inches from the
lower outside edge. All corners at street and alley intersections shall be
rounded at an angle of 90 degrees and all corners at any openings or
passageways in said curb shall be rounded at a like angle.
      (2)   All gutters shall be of a uniform width of 24 inches and shall be
not less than four inches in thickness and shall conform to the contour of the
street as determined by the established grade thereof.
      (3)   All curbs and gutters shall be constructed of cement in the
proportion of one part cement to five parts gravel and shall conform to the
established grades of the town, and the cross-sections, for curbs and gutters
as adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Application of sidewalk provisions. All provisions of this chapter
dealing with and relating to the construction, rebuilding and repair of
sidewalks shall apply to the construction, rebuilding and repair of curbs and
gutters.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 SUPERVISION.
   All sidewalks and all curbs and gutters shall be constructed, rebuilt or
repaired under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the Board of Trustees
or such officer shall have the authority to stop any construction, rebuilding
or repairing of any sidewalk, curb or gutter if the same is not being
constructed, rebuilt or repaired in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, or of any order of the Board of Trustees requiring the construction,
rebuilding or repairing thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When, upon the request of a citizen of the town or upon the Board’s
own investigation, it is determined that it would be in the best interests of
the citizens of the town that a certain sidewalk, curb or gutter be constructed
or repaired pertaining to any street, avenue or part thereof, within the town,
the Board shall, upon motion duly made and passed, authorize the Town Manager,
or other designated employee or agent of the town, to perform a study of the
subject area and determine the approximate cost of the construction or repair
to be done, the names and addresses of the owners of the adjacent or abutting
property to be affected by the construction or repair and the approximate cost
to be apportioned among and borne by the respective owners. The cost of such
construction or repairs shall be apportioned among the owners of the adjacent
or abutting properties in proportion to frontage feet.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the information set forth in division (A) above, the
Board shall reassess the construction or repair of the subject sidewalk, curb
or gutter, and if the Board reaffirms the necessity or benefit of requiring
such construction or repair, shall cause written notice to be sent by certified
and regular mail to the owners of the property adjacent to or abutting the
sidewalk, curb or gutter to be constructed or repaired. The notice shall be
sent to the owner or owners as may be known by the town. The notice shall
describe the subject area by legal and street description and shall inform the
owners of the approximate total cost of the construction or repair, as well as
the owner’s prorated share of the cost of construction or repair. The notice
shall further inform the owner or owners of the subject property that the cost
and expense of the construction or repair shall be due to the town and
collectable from such owner within 30 days of the completion of construction or
repair of the street, curb or gutter, and that failure to make such payment may
result in the implementation of the assessment procedures as set forth herein.
The notice shall further state a time that the owner or owners may appear
before the Board, at public hearing, to question the computations made by the
Town Manager and any other relevant matters pertaining to the construction or
repair to be done.
   (C)   Following the public hearing as described in division (B) above and
upon final approval of the expense computations by the Board, the Board shall
cause a second notice to be conveyed by certified and regular mail to the owner
or owners of the subject property notifying such owner or owners that the
sidewalk, curb or gutter shall be constructed or repaired, according to town
standards, by such owner or owners within 30 days of the second notice.
Further, the notice shall inform the owner or owners that if such construction
or repair is not completed within the 30-day period, the town may cause the
construction or repairs to be completed at the cost and expense of such owner
or owners. The Board reserves the right, for purposes of consistency and
quality control, to require that the construction or repairs be made through
town employees or to arrange for the construction or repair to be done by a
qualified contractor.
   (D)   Upon completion of the sidewalk, curb or gutter construction or
repairs to the town’s satisfaction, the town shall cause a third notice to be
conveyed by certified and regular mail to the owner or owners of the subject
property, notifying such owner or owners that the construction or repairs is
completed and that payment for construction or repairs is due, in full, within
30 days of the date of completion. The notice shall specify the final sum to be
paid by the owner or owners.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 151.05 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Should the owner or owners fail to make the required payment to the
town within the applicable 30-day period, the town may take such remedial
collection action as allowed by state law, including the recording of an
assessment lien against the subject real property. Further, the town may
certify said assessment to the County Treasurer who shall then extend said
assessment upon his or her tax roll and collect it in the same manner as other
taxes assessed upon said property. Such assessment shall include 5% of the
total cost for inspection and incidental cost and an additional 10% of the
total cost for the cost of collection through the office of the County
Treasurer, all as allowed by statute.
   (B)   The Board may consider a payment schedule for any owner or owners
assessed with cost of construction or repairs of sidewalks, curbs or gutters
upon a showing of good cause for such extension by the owner or owners.
Further, the Board may adopt a policy concerning the extension of payments,
such payment schedule not to exceed one year in duration.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 151.06 SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
   (A)   If it shall appear to the Board of Trustees that any sidewalk is so
much out of repair as to endanger the traveling public, it may, upon its own
motion by resolution, order the same to be repaired at once, and in case the
same is not repaired in three days after notice is given to the owner, if
known, or if he or she is found, the town may proceed to repair the same and
assess the cost thereof against the adjacent property. If such owner is not
known or cannot be found, a notation of such fact shall be entered of record by
the Town Clerk/Treasurer and, in that event, notice may be dispensed with.
   (B)   All assessments provided for in this section shall be made and
collected in like manner as is hereinbefore provided in the case of the
construction of sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   If any person so constructing, rebuilding or repairing any such sidewalk,
curb or gutter shall fail, neglect or refuse, after notification by the Board
of Trustees, or by the officer designated by it, to abide by this chapter or
said order, he or she shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not less
than an amount as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time, nor
more than an amount as shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time
for each offense, and the Board of Trustees may proceed to order the rebuilding
of such sidewalk in the manner as is hereinafter provided in §
151.04.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 137, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS
Section
Street Names and House Numbers
   
152.01   Street names adopted
   
152.02   Duty to number
   
152.03   Town Clerk/Treasurer to assign numbers
   
152.04   Manner of numbering buildings
   
152.05   Decimal system to be used
   
152.06   Baselines and numbering
   
152.07   Even and odd numbers
Excavations
   
152.20   Barricades and lights required
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters, see
Chapter 151
**** STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS ****
§ 152.01 STREET NAMES ADOPTED.
   The names of the streets and avenues in the town as they appear in the plat
filed June 7, 1952, in plat book two at page 46 of the records of the County
Clerk and Recorder, having theretofore been previously approved by the Town
Board of Trustees are adopted as the official names of the streets and avenues
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966)
§ 152.02 DUTY TO NUMBER.
   It is made the duty of all owners or occupants of all buildings situated in
the town to number them in the manner provided herein and as may hereafter be
provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER TO ASSIGN NUMBERS.
   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall assign each building its proper number in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966)
§ 152.04 MANNER OF NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   Buildings shall be numbered by placing the number in a conspicuous place on
the front of the building so as to be easily seen from the street. Each number
shall be at least three inches in height and so designed as to be distinctly
and easily read.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 DECIMAL SYSTEM TO BE USED.
   The decimal system of numbering buildings is adopted, and 100 numbers are
assigned to each block, consisting of the frontage on both sides of a street
between intersecting streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966)
§ 152.06 BASELINES AND NUMBERING.
   High Street, running along the south boundary of the town, shall be the
baseline for all numbering on avenues and streets running north and south, and
Main Avenue shall be the baseline for all numbering on the streets running east
and west. Buildings fronting on streets running east and west shall be numbered
east and west from Main Avenue as zero, allowing one number to each 25 feet of
frontage, and fractions may be used to number a building located on a
fractional part of 25 feet of frontage. Buildings fronting on streets west of
Main Avenue shall be known and designated as “west” and buildings fronting on
streets east of Main Avenue shall be known and designated as “east,” and the
prefixes shall be placed before the proper name of the street. The buildings
fronting on streets and avenues running north and south shall be numbered north
from High Street as zero, allowing one number to each 25 feet, and fractions
may be used, if necessary, to designate a building located on a fractional part
of a 25-foot frontage.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966)
§ 152.07 EVEN AND ODD NUMBERS.
   On all streets running east and west, even numbers shall be used on the
north side and odd numbers shall be used on the south side. On all avenues
running north and south, even numbers shall be used on the east side and odd
numbers shall be used on the west side.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966) Penalty, see §
152.99
**** EXCAVATIONS ****
§ 152.20 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every person, whether engaged in public work or private, who shall dig or
cause to be dug any excavation whatsoever, in or adjoining any highway, street,
sidewalk or other public places in the town, shall cause the same to be guarded
with a substantial fence or railing not less than three feet high and so placed
as to prevent persons, animals or vehicles from falling therein, and every
person digging in such street or highway shall cause to be kept burning during
the night one or more lights, as the case may require, which shall be securely
and conspicuously posted on or near any such excavation to prevent danger from
any excavation to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 3, passed 4-9-1917) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person being the owner or occupant of any building who, after
being notified by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, in writing, of the proper number of
said building, shall, for 30 days thereafter, fail or refuse to number said
building in conformity with the provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.07 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
152.20 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person, upon conviction of
any misdemeanor or for the violation of any provision specified in §
152.20, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
(Ord. 3, passed 4-9-1917; Ord. 87, passed 7-11-1966)
CHAPTER 153: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
153.01   Owner’s responsibility to care for trees and shrubs
   
153.02   Failure to care for trees and shrubs
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO CARE FOR TREES AND SHRUBS.
   Every owner of real property within the corporate limits of the town and the
occupants, tenants or agents in charge thereof shall be and are required to
trim, spray, remove and otherwise care for trees and shrubs upon that portion
of any street upon which such property abuts; to remove any dead trees or
shrubs or dead overhanging boughs dangerous to life, limb or property located
upon such property; and to trim any trees or shrubs which may project beyond
the property line, onto or over public property or which may obstruct the light
from any street lamp, the movement of pedestrians or the vision of drivers of
vehicles at intersections or which may interfere with power lines.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 118, passed 3-12-1984) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 FAILURE TO CARE FOR TREES AND SHRUBS.
   In the event of the failure or refusal of any such owner, occupant, tenant
or agent to comply with the provisions of §
153.01, the town shall have the power and authority to have such trees and
shrubs, or parts thereof, trimmed, sprayed, removed and protected and recover
the cost thereof from such owner, occupant, tenant or agent in a civil action;
provided, however, that not less than 15 days prior to the exercise of such
power, the town, through its duly acting Clerk/Treasurer, shall first give
notice in writing to such owner, occupant, tenant or agent by registered mail
at the last known address of such person giving notice that if the remedial
action is not completed within 15 days from the date of notice, such work will
be done by the town and the cost will be recovered as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 118, passed 3-12-1984)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 118, passed 3-12-1984)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definition
   
154.02   Application and sketch plan
   
154.03   Initial determination by Board
   
154.04   Engineer opinion
   
154.05   Hearing and subdivision development agreement
   
154.06   Application withdrawn
Development Incentives
   
154.20   Incentives available
   
154.21   Application
   
154.22   Factors for consideration
   
154.23   Public hearings
   
154.24   Use of Town Engineer or other professional services
   
154.25   Final determination and agreement
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 154.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBDIVISION. Any parcel of land which is to be used for condominiums,
apartments or any other multiple-dwelling units. SUBDIVISION also refers to the
division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, plats, sites
or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
sale or of building development. SUBDIVISION includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the
land or territory subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 169, passed 9-14-2005)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION AND SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Applications for subdivision must be made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer
at least 30 days prior to a regular meeting of the Board for the application to
be initially considered at such Board meeting. The application shall be on a
form approved by the Board and shall contain a sketch plan to allow a review of
the concept for development of the subject property and the overall feasibility
of the project.
   (B)   The sketch plan shall include the following items:
      (1)   A plat or map showing the general location of the proposed
subdivision, its property boundaries and the direction of true north;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the subject property with
record documentation reflecting ownership;
      (3)   The name and address of the developer of the subject property;
      (4)   The legal description of the subject property, if available;
      (5)   The approximate total acreage of the proposed subdivision;
      (6)   The proposed tentative street and lot arrangement and the proposed
density of development (including number of buildings, residences, estimated
population and the like);
      (7)   Topographic contours from available data, such as the United States
Geological Survey topographic maps;
      (8)   A lot and street layout indicating general scaled dimensions of
lots to the nearest foot;
      (9)   A description of the water distribution system contemplated for the
proposed development;
      (10)   A description of the sewer collection system contemplated for the
proposed development;
      (11)   A scale of the sketch plan on legible paper which shall be not
less than one inch per 200 feet. Some variation from this scale will be
acceptable in the case of large subdivisions, provided the plans and design are
clearly legible;
      (12)   Any other information that the owner or developer believes
necessary to obtain the informal opinion of the Board as to the proposed
subdivision’s compliance with the requirements set forth herein; and
      (13)   Any other information that the Board may require either before or
after the initial application and presentation of the owner or developer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 169, passed 9-14-2005)
§ 154.03 INITIAL DETERMINATION BY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Board, upon receiving the application and sketch plan, with
supporting documentation, if requested, shall place the application upon the
next available Board agenda for discussion. Upon receiving the application and
the presentation, if any, from the developer, the Board may make an initial
determination as to whether the proposed subdivision appears to be feasible as
to the available town resources and in the town’s best interests.
      (2)   In making such initial determination, the Board shall consider all
relevant factors, including the following stated factors:
         (a)   Whether the proposed subdivision is supportive of the town’s
master or comprehensive plan objectives and furthers the overall long range
goals of the town;
         (b)   Whether the proposed subdivision would benefit, harm or have no
effect on the surrounding locale and neighborhoods;
         (c)   Whether the proposed subdivision would be amendable to the
present zoning and districting ordinances of the town; and
         (d)   Whether the town’s infrastructure services, including, but not
limited to, water, sewer, streets, law enforcement and the like, would be
sufficient to service the subject area without harming or adversely impacting,
financially or otherwise, existing residences, businesses and schools.
   (B)   The Board may continue the deliberation of its determination to the
next scheduled Board meeting or later if the Board determines that more
information is required from the owner or developer, or the town’s or owner/
developer’s engineer.
   (C)   In the event that the Board makes an initial determination that the
proposed subdivision would not be detrimental to the town or its citizens and
appears to meet the objectives and long range goals of the town as set forth in
its master plan, the Board shall schedule a public hearing concerning the
application for the next regularly scheduled Board meeting. In the event that
the Board determines that a special meeting is required, the Board shall
schedule such special meeting; provided that notice of such special meeting is
published at least 15 days prior to the scheduled meeting. The 15-day notice
shall not be required in the event that the Board wishes to have a workshop for
considering the information obtained. Such initial determination shall not be
construed to be approval of the application. Further, the public hearing shall
not be held until the town has obtained the Town Engineer’s opinion as set
forth in §
154.04.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 169, passed 9-14-2005)
§ 154.04 ENGINEER OPINION.
   No approval shall be given by the Board for a proposed subdivision or
development of subdivided property until the Town Engineer, Town Water Attorney
or other expert as designated by the Town Board has reviewed the application
and determined that adequate town resources are available for the proposed
subdivision/development relevant to the overall town water, wastewater and
other resource condition and availability. Such determination shall be at the
sole discretion and authority of the Board and this requirement shall not be
waived except by the Board. The developer/owner shall pay for the cost of such
study or inspection unless the cost is waived by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 169, passed 9-14-2005)
§ 154.05 HEARING AND SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   Upon completion of the public hearing, during which all interested citizens
shall be given the opportunity to address the application and ask questions of
the owner or developer, should any wish to do so, the Board shall either
confirm or deny its initial determination based upon the same relevant factors
as set forth above. In the event that the Board confirms its initial
determination, the Board shall authorize the town to enter into a subdivision
development agreement with the developer concerning the proposed subdivision.
The agreement may include an annexation agreement if the developer is seeking
to annex property into the town for the purposes of the subdivision and has
complied with town ordinances. The agreement shall include, among other such
provisions as may be required by the Board, the following provisions.
   (A)   The owner/developer shall be responsible for the preparation of a
final subdivision plat, such plat to be legally sufficient for filing with the
County Clerk and Recorder. The town will not sign the plat or approve the plat
for recording until assured that the owner/developer has complied with all
provisions of the agreement. The owner/developer shall be responsible for the
cost of recording the plat.
   (B)   The owner/developer shall not obtain final subdivision plat approval
until the owner/developer provides for the installation of all public
improvements required by the development and acknowledges responsibility for
the cost and construction of all wastewater, water or drainage facilities, and
cost and construction of all necessary streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, fire hydrants and related appurtenances in and through the subject
property. In addition to dedicating such improvements to the town, the
developer shall execute such deeds and easements as required by the town for
all sewer and water lines, or other public utilities upon, across or over any
of the subject property or adjacent properties.
   (C)   The owner/developer shall pay the entire cost of the above public
improvements that the owner/developer constructs on, through or adjacent to
unserviced or undeveloped lands. The construction shall conform to all town
standards and regulations and shall be pre- and post-approved by the town or
its representative. The owner/developer shall obtain all necessary building
permits prior to commencing construction and shall, upon completion, properly
and legally dedicate all such public improvements to the exclusive ownership of
the town.
   (D)   The town may enter into a recovery cost agreement with the owner/
developer to allow the owner/developer to collect a pro rata share of the
construction costs of the public improvements from the owner or owners of
property served by the improvements at the time such owner or owners develop(s)
his or her property.
   (E)   The final subdivision plat may be approved by the Board, prior to the
completion of the required infrastructure, if the owner/developer provides
financial guarantees for the completion of the improvements by performance
bond, letter of credit, cash, escrow deposit or other form agreeable to the
Board.
   (F)   At least 30 days before the commencement of the construction of any
phase of the development of the subject property, the owner/developer will
agree to submit to the Board a plan development of that phase. The owner/
developer agrees not to commence construction of any additional phase until the
town, or its representative, approves the plan and the town agrees that its
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
   (G)   Depending upon the size of the proposed subdivision, the Board may
require that the owner/developer set aside and dedicate to the town a portion
of the subject property for a park or other recreational or municipal purpose.
The Board may, but it is not required to, consider a cash payment in lieu of
such dedication.
   (H)   In the event that the Town Engineer or Town Attorney has determined
that sufficient water, wastewater or other resources are not available for the
proposed development of the property, the parties may still enter into a
subdivision development agreement dependent upon the developer or owner
agreeing to purchase water rights, equipment or other items sufficient to
satisfy the proposed development and concerns of the Board and to convey such
water rights, equipment and the like to the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 169, passed 9-14-2005)
§ 154.06 APPLICATION WITHDRAWN.
   In the event that the town and the owner/developer cannot agree to or enter
into a subdivision development agreement within 60 days of the public hearing
referred to above, all official approval of the Board, in regard to the
developer’s application, shall be deemed withdrawn. Further, if the owner/
developer does not commence construction within one year of the date of the
execution of the subdivision development agreement, all official approval of
the Board, in regard to the owner/developer’s application, shall be deemed
withdrawn and the agreement shall terminate.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 169, passed 9-14-2005)
**** DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ****
§ 154.20 INCENTIVES AVAILABLE.
   At various times, the Board may determine that the town owns certain
undeveloped and unplatted real property, located within the town boundaries,
available for business location and development, either in a Light Industrial
Zoning or Open Space Zoning District. To encourage the location of business
within the town, provided that such business is a benefit to the overall town
as reflected in a study of the factors contained in this chapter, the Board
shall have, in its sole discretion, the authority to offer real property owned
by the town, at no or reduced consideration, to businesses wishing to locate
within the town, under the terms and conditions determined by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 177, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 154.21 APPLICATION.
   Any application for development incentive through the grant of a parcel or
parcels of real property shall be made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer. If the
application is made at least 30 days prior to a regular meeting of the Board,
the Board shall give initial consideration to the application at that regular
meeting. Otherwise, the first consideration to an application shall be made at
the next available special or regular meeting of the Board. The application
shall contain narratives and sketch plans, as well as other relevant
information, sufficient to inform the Board of the nature of the request and
the nature of the business that the applicant proposes to locate within the
town. When possible, the application shall address those factors set forth in §
154.22. After the initial meeting, the Board may continue consideration of the
request to allow for more information to be submitted by the applicant which
the Board feels is necessary to consider prior to proceeding with the request.
Each application shall be accompanied with a deposit equal to an amount as
shall be set by the Board of Trustees from time to time times the amount of
acreage which the applicant wishes to have awarded in his or her application.
The application deposit shall be held in the town’s Escrow Fund. The funds will
be applied by the town towards the administrative and other costs incurred by
the town in negotiating and finalizing the application, including required
legal and engineering costs. However, upon the commencement of the construction
of the improvements, as contemplated in the development agreement, the entire
deposited amount shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 178, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 154.22 FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.
   In making its initial determination as to whether the granting of a
development incentive through the conveyance of real property, either free or
at a reduced consideration, to the applicant is in the best interests of the
town, the Board shall consider the following factors:
   (A)   The size and fair market value of the improvements and business
facilities that are proposed to be constructed on the donated real property.
The Board shall also determine what amount of real property would reasonably be
required for the business and facilities that are proposed;
   (B)   The number of employees that the applicant proposes to employ at the
business site, the proposed educational and/or training requirements of the
employees to be employed, whether or not the employees will be those already
retained by the applicant or will be recruited from within the town and
surrounding communities, and the projected salaries of the employees. The
applicant will, to the best of his or her ability, estimate the employees that
will be required at the opening of the business as well as the projected number
that might be needed in future years providing such supporting documentation as
is available;
   (C)   The impact that the proposed business will have on the town resources
and infrastructure. Particularly, the applicant shall provide information
reflecting the amount of water that may be required to operate the business;
the projected discharge of wastewater; the amount of waste material that may be
produced from the operation of the business (along with the plans for disposal
of such waste material if the material is of a hazardous or toxic nature);
whether or not the business would require increased law enforcement by the
town; whether the business would produce significant amounts of odor, noise or
dust pollution; and other impacts upon the town infrastructure due to the
particular nature of the proposed business;
   (D)   The financial ability of the applicant to not only build the
improvements if granted the incentive, but to connect to the town
infrastructure, including roads, water, wastewater and other requirements as
set forth in §§
154.01 through
154.06. The applicant may be required to provide proof of such financial
ability as part of the agreement referred to herein;
   (E)   Whether the proposed business is in conformance with the town master
or comprehensive plan, and if no plan is in existence as of the date of the
application, whether the proposed business is of a character that is amenable
to the town and the surrounding neighborhood;
   (F)   Whether or not the proposed business would be in competition with
other businesses already established within the town, or would be complementary
to business already established within the town. If the proposed business were
determined to be in competition with existing business or businesses, would the
new business still be a substantial benefit to the overall economic health of
the town? Will the proposed business be purchasing materials from other town
businesses or otherwise seeking the services of other town businesses?
   (G)   Any factors found to be peculiar to the proposed business.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. 177, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 154.23 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   In making its determination of whether or not the applicant has made proper
showing that the proposed business would benefit the overall town and would be
eligible for the development incentive, the Board shall provide one or more
public hearings to receive questions, information and other input from the
citizens of the town. While the Board shall endeavor to finally determine the
application in as efficient a manner as practicable, there shall be no
timetable for final determination of whether or not an incentive shall be
granted, such authority being entirely within the discretion of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) (Ord. 177, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 154.24 USE OF TOWN ENGINEER OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   Upon notice to the applicant, and upon applicant’s consent, but at
applicant’s expense, the Board may contact the Town Engineer, or such other
professional entity, to obtain services, opinions and findings pertaining to
any of the factors set forth in §
154.23 or other technical aspects of the application.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) (Ord. 177, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 154.25 FINAL DETERMINATION AND AGREEMENT.
   Upon determination by the Board that the granting of a development incentive
is advantageous to the town and warranted under the factors of this chapter,
the Board and the applicant shall enter into a written document setting forth
the terms and conditions of the agreement. The Board, upon such determination
or at an earlier time if deemed by the Board to be proper under the
circumstances, shall initiate or combine the development incentive with the
subdivision regulations and requirements set forth in §§
154.01 through
154.06. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a substitute for the
subdivision regulations, but shall be a supplement thereto and the written
agreement concerning the development incentives may either be incorporated into
or referred to the subdivision development agreement required in §
154.05.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6) (Ord. 177, passed 4-14-2008)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Zoning map
   
155.004   Interpretation
   
155.005   Rules of word construction; definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.020   Building Inspector
   
155.021   Building permits
   
155.022   Nonconforming use certificate
   
155.023   Amendments
Board of Adjustment
   
155.035   Created; membership; terms of office
   
155.036   Qualifications
   
155.037   Vacancies
   
155.038   Organization
   
155.039   Powers and duties
   
155.040   Appeals
Districts and Regulations
   
155.055   Districts established
   
155.056   R-1 Residence District
   
155.057   R-1A Residence District
   
155.058   R-2 Residence District
   
155.059   B-1 Business District
   
155.060   B-2 Industrial District
   
155.061   R-3 Combined Use District
   
155.062   Planned Development District
   
155.063   Open Space District
Medical Marijuana
   
155.075   Findings
   
155.076   Definitions
   
155.077   Prohibited
   
155.078   Statutory authority
Supplemental Regulations
   
155.090   General provisions
   
155.091   Manufactured homes, mobile homes and mobile home parks
   
155.092   Minimum front yards
   
155.093   Off-street parking
   
155.094   Fences, hedges and walls
   
155.095   Recreational vehicles and recreational vehicle parks
Nonconforming Uses
   
155.110   Existing uses
   
155.111   Abandonment of use
   
155.112   Change in use
   
155.113   Restoration
   
155.114   Expansion
   
155.115   Elimination of certain nonconforming uses
Variances and Appeals
   
155.130   Authority to grant variances; restrictions
   
155.131   Application for variance
   
155.132   Public hearing
   
155.133   Action by Board of Adjustment
   
155.134   Supplemental conditions and safeguards
   
155.135   Appeals from Board of Adjustment
 
   
155.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance” of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed to encourage the most appropriate use of land in
the town and to promote the logical growth of the town; to promote safety from
fire and other dangers; to conserve property values; to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public
requirements; to provide adequate light and air for all purposes; to prevent
overcrowding of land; and, in general, to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.003 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the
map and legend, attached to Ord. 86 incorporated in this chapter, and are made
a part hereof by reference and designated as the “Flagler Zoning District Map.”
A copy of this map shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer for the use and information of the general public and shall be kept
up to date by the prompt indication thereon of all amendments thereto.
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries shall be the
centerlines of the streets and alleys or the extensions thereof.
      (2)   In the event that a dedicated street or alley shown on the map as a
district boundary is vacated, the resulting property line shall be the district
boundary.
   (C)   Any area annexed to the town after the effective date hereof shall,
upon annexation, become an R-1 District; provided that the petition for
annexation may request a different classification for part or all thereof, and
in such case, the request shall be acted upon by the Town Board of Trustees at
the time the annexation ordinance is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Whenever the regulations herein require a greater size of yard or
require a lower height of building or lesser number of stories or require a
greater percentage of lot to be unoccupied or impose other higher standards
than are required by other ordinances or laws, the provisions herein shall
govern.
   (B)   Any part of any ordinance of the town which is in conflict herewith is
repealed, except that all ordinances now or hereafter enacted relating to
nuisances are not repealed, and permitted uses hereunder shall remain expressly
subject to such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.005 RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number shall include
the plural, and the plural shall include the singular; the word “building”
includes the word “structure;” the word “lot” shall include the word “plot;”
the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory; and the words “occupied” or
“used” shall be considered as being followed by the words “or intended,
arranged or designed to be used or occupied.” The words and terms defined
herein are as follows.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building or premises, and which is
located on the same lot with the main building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to
and devoted exclusively to the main use of the premises.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property and which is 15 feet or more in width.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See definition of DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   BASEMENT. A story having part, but not more than one-half, of its height
below grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulations if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes by others
than a janitor employed on the premises.
   BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where, for
compensation, meals or lodging are provided for three or more persons, but not
exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind; and when separated by dividing walls
without any openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be
deemed a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the roof.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below grade.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof used exclusively for residential
purposes.
      (1)   MULTIPLE. A building designed to be used by three or more families,
living independently of each other.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed to be used exclusively by one
family.
      (3)   TWO-FAMILY. A building designed to be used exclusively by two
families.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a building and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house or hotel.
   FRONTAGE. All of the property abutting on one side of a street or place
between two intersecting streets or places measured along the line of the
street or place, or if the street or place is dead ended, then all of the
property abutting on one side thereof between an intersecting street or place
and the dead end.
   GARAGE.
      (1)   PRIVATE. An accessory building, a detached accessory building or
portion of the main building used for the storage of not more than three motor
vehicles owned or used by the occupants of the main building.
      (2)   PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring,
selling or storing motor vehicles.
      (3)   STORAGE. A building or portion thereof designed to be used
exclusively for housing four or more motor vehicles, not used by occupants of
the lot on which said building or portion thereof is situated.
   GRADE. The average of the finished grade level at the center of all walls of
a building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession conducted entirely within a
dwelling and carried on by a member of a family residing therein and clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the premises as a dwelling and which
does not change the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no
sign other than one nonilluminated nameplate attached to the building entrance
not more than one square foot in area, no commodity sold on the premises, no
person employed other than a member of the immediate family residing therein
and no mechanical equipment installed except such that is normally used for
household purposes.
   HOTEL. A building used as the temporary abiding place of persons who are,
for compensation, lodged with or without meals and in which there are more than
ten sleeping rooms and no provision made for cooking in any individual rooms.
   JUNKYARD. The use of more than 100 square feet of the area of any lot for
the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including inoperative motor
vehicles, scrap metals or other scrap materials, or for the dismantling,
demolition or abandonment of motor vehicles, or other machinery or parts
thereof.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 15 persons, in contradistinction to hotels
open to transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or designed to be occupied by one or more
main buildings, structures or uses, together with its accessory buildings,
including the open spaces required herein, and having its principal frontage on
a street or an officially designated and approved place.
      (1)   CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
      (2)   DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      (3)   INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      (4)   LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit no less than 24 feet wide and 36 feet in
length; installed on a permanent, engineered perimeter foundation; having
brick, wood or cosmetically equivalent exterior siding and a pitched roof; and
certified by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 to 5426.
   MOBILE HOME. A dwelling which is capable of being moved on wheels which are
an inherent part of the structure’s design. Also known as a TRAILER or TRAILER
HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any parcel of ground upon which two or more mobile homes
are occupied as dwelling units.
   MOTEL. Any group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or housekeeping units, used temporarily by automobile tourists or
transients, with a garage attached or parking space located conveniently to
each unit. Such structures are considered a single building for purposes of
this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building or premises lawfully occupied by a use which
does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store
one motor vehicle, together with a driveway connecting the parking space with a
street or alley and permitting ingress and egress of a motor vehicle.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved for use as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle designed to be used primarily as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use that either
has its own motor power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes camping trailers, fifth wheel trailers, motor
homes, travel trailers and truck campers.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any parcel of ground upon which two or more
recreational vehicles are parked and occupied for longer than two weeks.
   RESTAURANT. A building, other than a hotel or boarding house, where, for
compensation, food is prepared and dispensed.
   SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used principally for the storing,
dispensing or sale at retail of motor vehicle fuels and other petroleum
products, and where service and repair of motor vehicles is done incidentally
thereto.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of the roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which not more than two-thirds of the floor area is finished for
use. A HALF STORY containing an independent apartment or living quarters shall
be counted as a full story.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to
abutting property, and any property dedicated for such purposes or subject to
public easements for such purpose.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
continuous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something permanently
located on the ground, but not including fences or walls used as fences less
than six feet in height, poles, lines, cables or other transmission or
distribution facilities of public utilities.
   TOURIST COURT. See definition of MOTEL.
   USE. The purpose for which any land, building or structure is designed,
maintained or occupied.
   YARD.   An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In
measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the width of a side YARD, the
depth of the front YARD or the depth of a rear YARD, the mean horizontal
distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
      (1)   FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and measured as the distance between the street line and the front
wall of the building.
      (2)   REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured by the
minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear wall of the main
building. On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension. On all lots, the REAR YARD
shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      (3)   SIDE. A yard between the building and the sideline of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966; Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999;
Ord. 149, passed 1-8-2001)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 155.020 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Office created. The office of building inspector is created.
   (B)   Appointment; term of office. The Building Inspector shall be appointed
by the Town Board of Trustees to serve under such terms prescribed by it and at
its pleasure.
   (C)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to enforce such rules, regulations and decisions
as shall be adopted by the Board of Adjustment and to bring to the attention of
the proper enforcement officers of the town any violations hereof, and when
required for the proper enforcement of this chapter, it shall be the duty of
the Building Inspector to make and file with the Marshal a written complaint
against any violators hereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.021 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No building or fence, hedge or wall shall be erected, moved,
grown or structurally altered, unless a permit therefor has been issued by the
Building Inspector, and no permit shall be issued unless the building or
structure proposed is in full conformance with this chapter, except in those
instances where the permit has been granted for a variance by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Application. All applications for building permits must be accompanied
by drawings to scale showing plot plan and location, floor plan, height and
size of all proposed buildings and the location and dimensions of fences, signs
and parking and loading areas.
   (C)   Records kept. The Building Inspector shall maintain full and complete
records of all applications and accompanying drawings and data and the action
taken with respect to such applications.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966; Ord. 147, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.022 NONCONFORMING USE CERTIFICATE.
   A nonconforming use certificate shall be issued, upon application, with
respect to all nonconforming uses in existence on the effective date hereof.
Applications for such certificates must be filed with the Building Inspector
within six months after the effective date hereof. It shall be the duty of the
Building Inspector, promptly upon receipt of such application, to determine the
necessary facts and to issue such a certificate if he or she shall find that
the use is a nonconforming use under the terms of this chapter. Each
certificate shall contain such information as is necessary fully to show the
extent and nature of the nonconforming use, and a record of all certificates
shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
155.110 through
155.115
§ 155.023 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations herein and the boundaries of the districts may, from time to
time, be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed by the Board of
Trustees in accordance with the provisions of law and after such notice and
hearing as may be required thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
**** BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ****
§ 155.035 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   A board of adjustment is established. The Board shall consist of five
members to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Town Board of
Trustees, each to be appointed for a term of three years and until their
successors shall be duly qualified; except that in the case of the Board first
appointed, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years and one
member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.036 QUALIFICATIONS.
   A member of the Board of Adjustment must have been a resident of the town
for at least one year prior to his or her appointment and must be the owner of
real property within the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.037 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring during the term of any member of the Board shall be
filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the Mayor with the approval of
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.038 ORGANIZATION.
   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such other times as the Board may determine. The Board shall elect a
chairperson and other officers; shall adopt bylaws or rules and regulations
governing their meetings, procedures and hearings; and shall keep complete
minutes of all Board proceedings and decisions. The presence of four members
shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.039 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have such powers and duties as are now or
hereafter provided by statute for Boards of Adjustment. All actions and
determinations of the Board shall be consistent and in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of this chapter as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 155.040 APPEALS.
   Appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be taken within 30 days after any
action or decision of the Building Inspector by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department or board of the town. A notice of appeal shall be filed
with the Building Inspector and the Board, specifying the grounds thereof. The
Building Inspector shall forthwith thereafter transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings and furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that, by reason of fact stated
in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property; in which case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or
by a court of record on application and on notice to the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966)
**** DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 155.055 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the town is divided into classes of
zoning districts as follows:
      (1)   R-1 Residence District;
      (2)   R-1A Residence District;
      (3)   R-2 Residence District;
      (4)   B-1 Business District;
      (5)   B-2 Industrial District;
      (6)   R-3 Combined Use District;
      (7)   Planned Development District; and
      (8)   OS Open Space District.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure or land shall
be used, and no building or part thereof or other structure shall be erected,
moved, structurally altered or converted, except as permitted in the district
in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 124, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999;
Ord. 170, passed 9-14-2005) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.056 R-1 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses:
      (1)   Churches; provided that before any such use may commence, consent
therefor shall first be obtained, in writing, from more than 60% of the persons
owning real estate within 300 feet of the lot lines of the lot whereon such use
is proposed;
      (2)   Home occupations and the offices of physicians, dentists,
musicians, artists or attorneys when situated in the dwelling; provided that
none of the foregoing uses shall have a nameplate exceeding one square foot in
area or any other advertising sign of any kind, and provided that such use
shall not be on such a scale or in such a manner as to be offensive to the
neighborhood;
      (3)   Hospitals, clinics and similar medical facilities;
      (4)   One-family dwellings;
      (5)   Parks, playgrounds and public buildings, such as libraries, town
halls and fire stations owned and controlled by the town;
      (6)   Public schools and private schools having a similar curriculum;
      (7)   Truck gardening and nurseries, and the raising, keeping and
boarding of poultry, pets and livestock, except for commercial purposes;
provided that before any such use may commence, consent therefor shall first be
obtained, in writing, from more than 75% of the owners of real estate within
300 feet of the lot lines of the lots whereon such use is proposed, and
provided that such use shall not be on such a scale or in such a manner as to
be offensive to the neighborhood; and
      (8)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
foregoing uses when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a
business, other than those provided above, on the premises, including one
private garage.
   (B)   Building height: no building shall exceed two and one-half stories or
35 feet in height, and no building shall be less than one story above the
ground.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum yard dimensions: there shall be a front yard of not less
than 25 feet, a side yard of not less than seven and one-half feet and a rear
yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot area: each one-family dwelling hereafter erected shall
be located on a lot having an area of not less than 6,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.057 R-1A RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses: any use permitted in the R-1 Residence District, §
155.056(A).
   (B)   Building height: same as R-1 Residence District, §
155.056(B).
   (C)   Area regulations: same as R-1 Residence District, §
155.056(C).
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) (Ord. 124, passed 9-12-1988) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.058 R-2 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residence District, §
155.056(A);
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, multiple dwellings and rooming houses; and
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
foregoing uses.
   (B)   Building height: same as R-1 Residence District, §
155.056(B).
   (C)   Area regulations:
      (1)   Minimum yard dimensions: same as R-1 Residence District, §
155.056(C); except that front yards and rear yards shall not be less than 20
feet; and
      (2)   Minimum lot area.
         (a)   Each one-family or two-family dwelling hereafter erected shall
be located on a lot having an area of not less than 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Each multiple dwelling hereafter erected shall be located on a
lot having an area of not less than 2,500 square feet per family.
         (c)   Each rooming house hereafter erected shall be located on a lot
having an area of not less than 1,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.059 B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-2 Residence District, §
155.058(A);
      (2)   Bakery;
      (3)   Bank;
      (4)   Barbershop;
      (5)   Beauty parlor;
      (6)   Drugstore;
      (7)   Dry cleaning plant or store;
      (8)   Electric repair shop;
      (9)   Florist shop;
      (10)   Frozen food locker plant;
      (11)   Grocery or meat shop;
      (12)   Hardware store;
      (13)   Hotel and motel;
      (14)   Laundry plant and store;
      (15)   Lodge hall and private club;
      (16)   Lumberyard;
      (17)   Meeting halls, including those used for public dances and as
gymnasiums;
      (18)   Motor vehicle and machinery sale and repair shop;
      (19)   Motor vehicle washing facility;
      (20)   Newspaper plant and office;
      (21)   Offices and office buildings;
      (22)   Painting and decorating shop;
      (23)   Parking lot or public garage;
      (24)   Plumbing, heating or tinsmithing shop;
      (25)   Pool hall;
      (26)   Restaurant or café;
      (27)   Service and filling station;
      (28)   Storage, processing, manufacture, packaging and transport of
birdseed for export and retail sales;
      (29)   Store or shop for the conduct of a retail business similar to the
types of businesses listed above in this division (A);
      (30)   Theater, the seating capacity of which does not exceed 500
persons;
      (31)   Tourist court and mobile home park;
      (32)   Variety shop; and
      (33)   Accessory buildings customarily incidental to any of the above
uses.
   (B)   Height regulations: no building shall exceed 50 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations:
      (1)   Minimum yard dimensions: for dwelling uses, same as R-2 Residence
District, §
155.058(C)(1); for other uses, there shall be a front yard of not less than 20
feet, subject to provisions of §
155.092; no side yard required, but if provided or on the side of a lot
abutting a dwelling, not less than five feet; and a rear yard of not less than
25 feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area: for dwelling uses, same as R-2 Residence
District, §
155.058(C)(2); for other uses, no area requirement; and
      (3)   Special use review: business uses, not presently allowed as a
permitted use, shall be allowed; provided that the proposed business or use is
approved by the Board pursuant to a special use review. A special use review
shall require the applicant to complete an application form as provided by the
town, provide requested information and documentation and shall further require
a review before the Board and a public hearing. At the conclusion of such
hearing, the Board may grant the proposed use if it is determined by the Board
that such use is in the best interests of the town and the applicant agrees to
all reasonable conditions imposed by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966; Ord. 89, passed 5-29-1967;
Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999; Ord. 176, passed 9-10-2007) Penalty, see §
155.999
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
155.091(E)
§ 155.060 B-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted and prohibited uses: buildings and premises may be used for
any purpose not prohibited by law or by any ordinance of the town; provided,
however, that no premises shall be occupied for any of the following uses:
      (1)   Explosive manufacture or storage;
      (2)   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
      (3)   Junkyard; and
      (4)   Stockyard.
   (B)   Building height: no building shall exceed 50 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations: for dwelling uses, same as R-2 Residence District, §
155.058(C); for other uses, no minimum yard dimensions or minimum lot area
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.061 R-3 COMBINED USE DISTRICT.
   Permitted uses:
   (A)   All uses permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Residence Districts;
   (B)   All uses allowed in the B-1 Business District, and B-2 Industrial
District; and
   (C)   Mobile homes and mobile home parks.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-7) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.062 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   An area of land within the town proposed for development or which concerns
an application for a unique use which use does not meet a “permitted use,” as
defined for the district in which the property is located. Any owner seeking to
create a Planned Development District shall make application to the town on a
form provided by the town, and shall meet all requirements imposed by the town,
including review and public hearing, before the Board shall consider and/or
approve such district. The Board shall not approve a proposed Planned
Development District, unless the Board determines that the proposed district is
in the best interests of the town. The Board may enter into a development
agreement with the applicant to address any and all concerns that the Board may
have concerning the proposed district.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-8) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999)
§ 155.063 OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   The Open Space Districts shall allow single-family residences, and usual and
normal agricultural purposes historically allowed on the subject properties
zoned as “open space,” including the planting, raising and harvest of crops.
Additionally, Open Space Districts may allow public parks, playgrounds, other
public recreation areas and similar open space areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-9) (Ord. 170, passed 9-14-2005)
**** MEDICAL MARIJUANA ****
§ 155.075 FINDINGS.
   Findings under C.R.S. §§ 44-11-101 et seq.:
   (A)   The State Medical Marijuana Code, being C.R.S. §§ 44-10-101 et seq.,
clarifies state law regarding the scope and extent of amendment 20 to the
Colorado Constitution (Article XVIII, § 14);
   (B)   C.R.S. § 44-10-313 of the State Medical Marijuana Code specifically
authorizes a municipality in part to prohibit the operation of medical
marijuana centers, optional premises cultivation operations and medical
marijuana-infused products manufacturers’ licenses, based on local government
zoning, health, safety and public welfare laws; and
   (C)   The Board of Trustees of the town has carefully considered the
provisions of the State Medical Marijuana Code, being C.R.S. §§ 44-10-101 et
seq.; Article XVIII, § 14 of the Colorado Constitution; and the impact of
medical marijuana centers, optional premises cultivation operations and medical
marijuana-infused products manufacturers’ licenses on the health, safety and
welfare of the town and the town inhabitants, and has determined as an exercise
of its local land use authority that such medical marijuana centers, optional
premises cultivation operations and medical marijuana-infused products
manufacturers’ licenses should be prohibited and not be located within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-1) (Ord. 185, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 155.076 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is grown and sold for a purpose authorized
by § 14 of Article XVIII of the Colorado Constitution.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTER. A person authorized to be licensed to operate a
business as described in the State Medical Marijuana Code, being C.R.S. §§ 44-
10-101 et seq., that sells medical marijuana to registered patients or primary
caregivers, as defined in § 14 of Article XVIII of the Colorado Constitution,
but is not a primary caregiver, and which a municipality is authorized to
prohibit as a matter of law.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER. A person licensed pursuant
to the State Medical Marijuana Code, being C.R.S. §§ 44-10-101 et seq., to
operate a business known as a medical marijuana-infused products manufacturing
license, and which a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
   OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION OPERATION. A person licensed pursuant to the
State Medical Marijuana Code, being C.R.S. §§ 44-10-101 et seq., to operate a
business known as an optional premises grow facility in order to grow and
cultivate marijuana for a purpose authorized by § 14 of Article XVIII of the
Colorado Constitution, and which a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a
matter of law.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
limited liability company or organization, or a manager, agent, owner,
director, servant, officer, agent or employee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-2) (Ord. 185, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 155.077 PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated or permit to
be operated a medical marijuana center, optional premises cultivation operation
or facility for which a medical marijuana-infused products manufacturers’
license could otherwise be obtained within the town, and all such uses are
prohibited in any location within the town, or within any area hereinafter
annexed to the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-3) (Ord. 185, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.078 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The Board finds, determines and declares that it has the power and authority
to adopt this subchapter, pursuant to the State Medical Marijuana Code, being
C.R.S. §§ 44-10-101 et seq.; the Local Government Land Use Control Enabling
Act, C.R.S. Title 29, Article 20; C.R.S. § 31-15-103; C.R.S. § 31-15-401; and
C.R.S. § 31-15-501.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-5) (Ord. 185, passed 11-8-2010)
**** SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 155.090 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The district regulations set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (B)   Where a lot in separate ownership has a smaller area than the minimum
herein required, and the muniment of title was on record on the effective date
hereof, such lot may be occupied by a one-family dwelling and the usual
accessory buildings; provided, however, that the yard requirement shall not be
reduced except by order of the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   On lots which are not corner lots and which have a frontage on two
nonintersecting streets, no building shall project beyond the front yard line
of either of the abutting streets.
   (D)   In a residence district, an accessory building may not be more than 12
feet in height and may not occupy more than 30% of a required rear yard;
provided that on a corner lot, no accessory building shall be nearer a street
than the main building on the same lot and, in the case of reversed frontage,
not nearer the side street than the front line of buildings on the lot at the
rear; and provided, further, that no detached accessory building shall be
nearer the front lot line than 60 feet nor nearer any side or rear lot line
than two feet nor nearer any alley abutting the rear of the lot than five feet.
   (E)   On corner lots in a residence district where the frontage has been
reversed, the side yard on the street side of the lot shall be the same as the
front yard required on the lots at the rear of the corner lot. For both corner
lots and interior lots with reversed frontage, the front yard shall be not less
than 15 feet and the rear yard not less than seven feet.
   (F)   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, except for
ordinary and reasonable projections from buildings. An open, unenclosed porch
or paved terrace may project into a front yard not more than ten feet.
   (G)   No yard or other open space provided about any building, for the
purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be considered as providing a yard
or open space for any other buildings.
   (H)   No signs, except church or similar bulletin boards and signs not
exceeding 12 square feet in area pertaining to the lease or sale of a building
or premises, shall be permitted in any residence district.
   (I)   The height regulations shall not apply to or restrict the height or
chimney stacks, grain elevators, water towers, radio, television and similar
towers and antennas and spires, steeples and belfries.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.091 MANUFACTURED HOMES, MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Prohibited uses. No mobile homes shall be located within the town
except in the R-3 Combined Use District or in a mobile home park. Mobile homes
located within the town as of the date hereof and meeting all applicable town
ordinances, regulations or restrictions shall be allowed to remain in present
locations subject to §
155.022, as amended herein.
   (B)   Manufactured homes allowed. Manufactured homes shall be allowed in all
districts applicable to residences and businesses; provided that the
manufactured home meets the definition and criteria as set forth in this
chapter for manufactured homes.
   (C)   Redesignation of mobile home parks.
      (1)   The following portions of the town shall remain designated as
mobile home parks:
         (a)   Lots 11 through 16, Block 12, Madoles Addition to the town; and
         (b)   The west half of Block Three; and Lots Eight through 14, Block
Two, McGonigals Addition to the town.
      (2)   Further, the following property previously designated as a mobile
home park shall no longer be designated as a mobile home park and any mobile
home located upon the property as of the effective date hereof shall be
considered a nonconforming use: Lots 22 through 28 Block Four, Original Town of
Flagler.
   (D)   Restoration or repair of mobile homes. Any mobile home located outside
of an R-3 District or mobile home park damaged or destroyed by involuntary
fire, explosion, flood or similar natural disaster, regardless of the extent of
the damage, may be repaired or replaced on the site of the damage; provided
that the repair or replacement is accomplished within one year of the natural
disaster; and provided that a replacement mobile home is a model no older than
the replaced mobile home, and provided that the replacement or repairs meets
the guidelines and requirements of the National Manufacturers Housing
Construction and Safety Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 to 5426.
   (E)   Improvements to mobile homes. Enclosed additions or enlargements to
mobile homes not located within an R-3 District or mobile home park are not
allowed unless approved by the Town Board pursuant to a special use review, as
defined in this chapter, normally used in B-1 Districts. Renovations or
improvements within the mobile home, or minor improvements such as the addition
of a deck, replacement of siding, concrete steps and maintenance procedures
which do not expand a nonconforming use are allowed as set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999; Ord. 149, passed 1-8-2001)
Penalty, see §
155.999
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
155.059 and
155.113
§ 155.092 MINIMUM FRONT YARDS.
   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets is improved with dwellings having an average front yard
depth with a variation of not more than six feet, the average front yards of
such dwellings shall be the minimum front yard required for all dwellings
hereafter erected or structurally altered in said frontage. The same provisions
shall apply to buildings other than dwellings, as a separate category.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.093 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   For every building hereafter erected and listed below, off-street parking
spaces shall be provided as follows.
 
Churches                              1 parking space for every 12 members
Medical clinics, hospitals, nursing   1 space for each permanent employee, but
homes and other medical facilities    not less than 1/4 the gross floor area
One-family dwelling, two-family
dwelling, multiple dwelling, boarding 1 parking space for each dwelling or
and rooming house, hotel, motel,      rental unit
lodging house and mobile home park
                                      1 parking space for every 2 permanent
                                      employees and for every 3 regularly
Schools                               enrolled students 16 years of age or
                                      older, plus adequate parking space for
                                      all school buses
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966; Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.094 FENCES, HEDGES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Permitted; conditions and requirements. Fences, hedges and walls may
be permitted in the yard areas of any district of the town subject to the
following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   All fences, hedges and walls are subject to the applicable sections
of any ordinance or code of the town.
      (2)   No fence, hedge or wall may extend beyond or across a property line
unless with the joint agreement of the abutting property owners. It shall be
the responsibility of the property owner to locate all property lines prior to
the placement of a fence, hedge or wall.
      (3)   No fence, hedge or wall shall be placed upon public property,
including any easement granted to the town, without the written consent of the
town, or its designated agent or employee.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed of barbed wire or sharp pointed
materials, be electrically charged or be visibly displeasing or objectionable
to the general public as determined by the Board.
      (5)   Fences, hedges or walls shall not exceed three feet in height when
such fences are located within the required front yard area. Further, fences,
hedges or walls shall not exceed three feet in height when located in areas
that would restrict the sight of an automobile driver or bicyclist when turning
on streets or entering or exiting an alley. Side and backyard fences shall not
exceed 15 feet in height, unless such fence creates the visual safety problem
described herein. The height shall be measured at the finished grade on the
side of the fence nearest the street, alley or abutting property.
   (B)   Nonconforming use. Any such fence, hedge or wall which was constructed
prior to the adoption hereof shall be deemed a nonconforming use and allowed to
remain subject to the provisions of §§
155.020 through
155.023, unless the town through its designated employees or agents determines
that the placement of the fence, hedge or wall constitutes a safety problem or
nuisance; restricts the vision of automobile drivers or bicyclists turning on a
public street, turning into or out of an alley; or if the placement of the
fence, hedge or wall interferes with a town policy or proper exercise of the
town police power. In such case, the town shall give written notice to the
owner of the fence, hedge or wall notifying the person served to remove the
fence, hedge or wall for the reasons given. Such notice shall direct that the
fence be removed within 30 days of the notice.
   (C)   Abatement and penalty. Should any fence, hedge or wall be found within
the town contrary to the provisions of this chapter or should an owner refuse
to remove a fence, hedge or wall upon proper notice by the town, the town shall
cause any such fence, hedge or wall to be removed, trimmed or otherwise altered
to meet the requirements of this chapter, and the expense of such removal shall
be recovered under the abatement procedures of the town through the Town
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5) (Ord. 147, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 155.095 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles; use as dwelling prohibited. No recreational
vehicles shall be used as dwellings within the town except in a recreational
vehicle park. This restriction shall not apply to recreational vehicles parked
or stored at a residence or business and not being used as a dwelling or to
recreational vehicles temporarily being used as a dwelling for no longer than
two consecutive weeks in any four month period of time.
   (B)   Designation of recreational vehicle park. The following portion of the
town shall be designated as the recreational vehicle park: Lots One through
Seven, Block Two, McGonigals Addition to the town.
   (C)   Regulations and restrictions applicable to recreational vehicle parks.
All recreational vehicles located within a recreational vehicle park must
comply with all applicable town ordinances, must receive a permit from the Town
Clerk/Treasurer and pay any applicable permit fee prior to locating in the park
and may not remain in the park for longer than four consecutive months in a
one-year period without the approval of the Town Board, or its designated
employee.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6) (Ord. 149, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
**** NONCONFORMING USES ****
§ 155.110 EXISTING USES.
   The lawful use of any building, structure or land existing on the effective
date hereof (or upon the effective date of any amendments to this chapter which
restricts or prohibits a previously permitted use), although such use does not
conform to the provisions hereof, may be continued, subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
155.022
§ 155.111 ABANDONMENT OF USE.
   Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of 12
consecutive months, such use shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any
future use of the building, structure or land shall be in conformance with this
chapter. A finding of abandonment shall include a failure of the owner or his
or her tenants or invitees to inhabit a mobile home existing in a district
other than an R-3 District or mobile home park for 365 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.112 CHANGE IN USE.
   When a nonconforming use of a building or premises is hereafter changed to a
more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be
changed to a less restricted or nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.113 RESTORATION.
   Except as to mobile homes being used outside of an R-3 District or mobile
home park as hereinbefore addressed, if any building, the use of which does not
conform to the use regulations of this chapter, is damaged by fire, explosion,
flood or similar natural disaster to the extent of more than 75% of its fair
market value, it shall not be restored or rebuilt except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is situated. Buildings damaged to the
extent of less than 75% may be repaired and restored to their previous use;
provided that the restoration is completed within one year of the damage and
provided that the restoration does not create an increased or expanded
nonconforming use from what previously existed.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4) (Ord. 138, passed 5-11-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
155.091(D)
§ 155.114 EXPANSION.
   A nonconforming use shall not be expanded, except with the approval of the
Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.115 ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any nonconforming use which is a “junkyard,” as defined in §
155.005, shall be changed to a use conforming with this chapter within a period
of two years after the effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-6) (Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966) Penalty, see §
155.999
**** VARIANCES AND APPEALS ****
§ 155.130 AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES; RESTRICTIONS.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may authorize, in specific cases, such
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship. No
nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same
district and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures or
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1)
§ 155.131 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment, unless and until a written application has been submitted
to the Building Inspector and recommended by the Building Inspector to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment, which application shall contain the following:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant(s);
   (B)   Legal description of property;
   (C)   Description of nature of variance requested;
   (D)   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      (2)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions
of the applicant; and
      (4)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures
or buildings in the same district.
   (E)   (1)   A list of the names and mailing addresses of all property owners
whose property is within an area bounded by lines 300 feet from the subject
property.
      (2)   A variance shall not be granted unless the Zoning Board of
Adjustment makes specific findings of fact based directly on the particular
evidence presented to it which supports conclusions that the above-mentioned
standards and conditions have been met by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2)
§ 155.132 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the application for an appeal or a variance, the Zoning
Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper
and give written notice to all parties as required for special use permits.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3)
§ 155.133 ACTION BY BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall
either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the request for appeal or
variance or may delay such decision for a definite period of time for further
study.
   (B)   Upon granting or denying an application, the Board of Adjustment shall
specify:
      (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-4)
§ 155.134 SUPPLEMENTAL CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant an appeal or
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5)
§ 155.135 APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
Board, or any resident, taxpayer or other officer, department, board or
commission of the municipality may appeal such decision by appropriate legal
action to a court of record having legal jurisdiction thereof. Such appeal
shall be filed no more than 30 days from the date of the Board action.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-6)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Building Inspector shall find
a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall notify
the person responsible for the violation, in writing, and shall order the
necessary correction within the period of one month.
      (2)   Penalty. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, unless a variance has been authorized by the Board of Adjustment,
shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5)
   (C)   In addition to those remedies set forth in this code, or ordinances,
the town is specifically authorized to seek an injunction, abatement,
restitution or any other remedy necessary to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove
the violation and may seek a fine in an amount as shall be set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time for each day that the subject property is in
violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-4)
(Ord. 86, passed 5-9-1966; Ord. 185, passed 11-8-2010)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Colorado Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO COLORADO REVISED STATUTES
C.R.S. Cite Code Section
C.R.S. Cite                  Code Section
13-10-104                    34.01
13-10-105(2)                 30.01
18-1.3-501                   10.10
24-5-101                     92.04
Title 29, Article 2          33.18
Title 29, Article 20         155.078
31-10-101 to 31-10-1540      30.01
31-10-306                    32.01
31-10-507                    32.02
31-15-103                    155.078
31-15-302                    50.15
31-15-401                    155.078
31-15-501                    155.078
Title 31, Article 16, Part 1 70.02
31-16-101                    10.99
Title 31, Article 16, Part 2 70.02
31-20-507                    32.02
31-35-617                    50.15
Title 39, Article 26         33.18;
                             33.20
39-26-102                    33.16
39-26-104                    33.17
39-26-701 et seq.            33.19
Title 42                     70.99
42-2-127.5                   70.99
42-12-101 et seq.            93.02
                             111.02;
44-10-101 et seq.            155.075;
                             155.076;
                             155.078
44-10-313                    155.075
44-11-101 et seq.            155.075
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
1-1-1              10.01
1-1-2              10.02
1-1-3              10.03
1-1-4              10.04
1-2-1              10.05
1-2-2              10.06
1-2-3              10.07
1-2-4              10.08
1-3-1              10.09
1-3-2              10.10
1-3-3              10.11
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.99
1-4-3              10.99
1-5-1              30.01
1-5-2              30.02
1-5-3              30.03
1-5-4              30.04
1-5-5              30.05
1-6-2              31.01
1-6-3              31.02
1-6-4              31.03
1-7-1              32.01
1-7-2              32.02
1-8-1              33.01
1-8-2              33.02
1-9-1              34.01
1-9-2              34.02
1-9-3              34.03
1-9-4              34.04
1-9-5              34.05
2-1-1              110.01
2-1-2              110.02
2-2-1              113.01
2-2-2              113.02
2-2-3              113.99
2-3-1              112.01
2-3-2              112.02
2-3-3              112.03
2-3-4              112.04
2-3-5              112.05
2-3-6              112.06
2-3-7              112.07
2-3-8              112.08
2-3-9              112.09
2-3-10             112.99
2-4-1              33.15
2-4-2              33.16
2-4-3              33.17
2-4-4              33.18
2-4-5              33.19
2-4-6              33.20
2-4-7              33.21
2-4-8              33.22
2-4-9              33.23
2-4-10             33.99
3-2-1              91.01
3-2-2              91.02
3-2-3              91.03
3-2-4              91.04
3-2-5              91.99
3-3-1              93.01
3-3-2              93.02
3-3-3              93.03
3-3-4              93.99
3-4-1              91.15
3-4-2              91.16
3-4-3              91.17
3-4-4              91.99
3-5-1              92.01
3-5-2              92.02
3-5-3              92.03
3-5-4              92.04
3-5-5              92.05
3-5-6              92.06
3-6-1              114.01
3-6-2              114.02
3-6-3              114.03
3-6-4              114.04
3-7-1              52.01
3-7-2              52.02
3-7-3              52.03
3-7-4              52.04
3-7-5              52.05
3-7-6              52.99
4-1-1              90.01
4-1-2              90.02
4-1-3              90.03
4-1-4              90.04
4-1-5              90.05
4-1-7              90.99
4-2-1              90.20
4-2-2              90.21
4-2-3              90.22
4-2-4              90.23
4-2-5              90.24
4-2-6              90.25
4-2-7              90.26
4-2-8              90.27
4-2-9              90.29
4-2-10             90.99
4-3-1              131.01
4-3-2              131.02
4-3-3              131.99
4-4-1              130.01;
                   130.99
4-5-1              111.01
4-5-2              111.02
4-5-3              111.03
4-5-4              111.04
4-5-7              111.05
4-5-5              111.99
4-5-6              111.99
5-1-1              70.01
5-1-2              70.02
5-1-3              70.03
5-1-4              70.04
5-1-5              70.99
6-1-1              151.01
6-1-2              151.02
6-1-3              151.03;
                   151.99
6-1-4              151.04
6-1-5              151.05
6-1-6              151.06
6-2-1              152.01
6-2-2              152.02
6-2-3              152.03
6-2-4              152.04
6-2-5              152.05
6-2-6              152.06
6-2-7              152.07
6-2-8              152.99
6-3-1              152.20;
                   152.99
6-4-1              153.01
6-4-2              153.02
6-4-3              153.99
6-6-1              51.01
6-6-2              51.02
6-6-3              51.03
6-6-4              51.04
6-6-5              51.05
6-6-6              51.06
6-6-7              51.07
6-6-8              51.08
6-6-9              51.09
6-6-10             51.99
7-1-1              150.20
7-1-2              150.21
7-1-3              150.22
7-1-4              150.23
7-1-5              150.24
7-1-6              150.99
7-2-1              150.01
7-2-2              150.02
7-2-3              150.03
7-2-4              150.04
7-2-5              150.05
7-2-6              150.99
8-1-1              155.001
8-1-2              155.002
8-1-3              155.003
8-1-4              155.004
8-2-1              155.005
8-3-1              155.020
8-3-2              155.021
8-3-3              155.022
8-3-4              155.023
8-3-5              155.999
8-4-1              155.035
8-4-2              155.036
8-4-3              155.037
8-4-4              155.038
8-4-5              155.039
8-4-6              155.040
8-5-1              155.055
8-5-2              155.056
8-5-3              155.057
8-5-4              155.058
8-5-5              155.059
8-5-6              155.060
8-5-7              155.061
8-5-8              155.062
8-5-9              155.063
8-5A-1             155.075
8-5A-2             155.076
8-5A-3             155.077
8-5A-4             155.999
8-5A-5             155.078
8-6-1              155.090
8-6-2              155.091
8-6-3              155.092
8-6-4              155.093
8-6-5              155.094
8-6-6              155.095
8-7-1              155.110
8-7-2              155.111
8-7-3              155.112
8-7-4              155.113
8-7-5              155.114
8-7-6              155.115
8-8-1              155.130
8-8-2              155.131
8-8-3              155.132
8-8-4              155.133
8-8-5              155.134
8-8-6              155.135
9-1-1              154.01
9-1-2              154.02
9-1-3              154.03
9-1-4              154.04
9-1-5              154.05
9-1-6              154.06
9-2-1              154.20
9-2-2              154.21
9-2-3              154.22
9-2-4              154.23
9-2-5              154.24
9-2-6              154.25
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Description
133      6-13-2022   50.17
153      4-14-2025   50.16
155      7-14-2025   50.18
163      1-12-2026   50.16
164      2-9-2026    32.01;
                     32.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1        4-9-1917    31.01
2        4-9-1917    30.03
3        4-9-1917    152.20;
                     152.99
13       11-1-1917   33.02
27       1-30-1922   33.01
                     150.20—
29       2-13-1922   150.24;
                     150.99
68A      10-8-1951   31.03
75       1-10-1955   113.01;
                     113.99
82       7-13-1959   113.02
                     155.001—
                     155.005;
                     155.020—
                     155.023;
                     155.035—
                     155.040;
                     155.056;
86       5-9-1966    155.058—
                     155.060;
                     155.090;
                     155.092;
                     155.093;
                     155.114;
                     155.115;
                     155.999
                     152.01—
87       7-11-1966   152.07;
                     152.99
89       5-29-1967   155.059
90       10-10-1967  130.01;
                     130.99
                     90.23—
95       2-11-1971   90.27;
                     90.29
96       2-11-1971   34.01—
                     34.04
                     131.01;
100      8-12-1974   131.02;
                     131.99
105      1-9-1978    70.01
107      8-14-1978   30.01
116      3-12-1984   30.02
                     91.15—
117      3-12-1984   91.17;
                     91.99
                     153.01;
118      3-12-1984   153.02;
                     153.99
                     90.01—
122      12-11-1984  90.05;
                     90.99
124      9-12-1988   155.055;
                     155.057
126      5-17-1989   90.02
                     33.15—
127      8-14-1989   33.23;
                     33.99
                     91.01;
129      3-14-1994   91.02;
                     91.04;
                     91.99
133      4-13-1998   114.01—
                     114.04
                     90.20;
                     90.22;
                     90.24;
134      4-13-1998   90.25;
                     90.27;
                     90.29;
                     90.99
135      5-11-1998   30.05
136      7-13-1998   30.04
                     151.01—
137      9-14-1998   151.06;
                     151.99
                     150.01—
139      1-11-1999   150.05;
                     150.99
                     155.005;
                     155.055;
                     155.059;
                     155.061;
138      5-11-1999   155.062;
                     155.091;
                     155.093;
                     155.110—
                     155.113
121      2-14-2000   32.01;
                     32.02
                     33.15—
                     33.23;
                     33.99;
146      8-14-2000   110.01;
                     113.01;
                     113.02;
                     113.99
148      9-11-2000   91.03
147      10-10-2000  155.021;
                     155.094
                     155.005;
149      1-8-2001    155.091;
                     155.095
                     52.01—
153      9-10-2001   52.05;
                     52.99
                     91.15—
                     91.17;
                     91.99;
154      9-10-2001   92.01—
                     92.06;
                     93.01—
                     93.03;
                     93.99
                     70.02—
161      7-14-2003   70.04;
                     70.99
                     51.01—
162      9-8-2003    51.09;
                     51.99
169      9-14-2005   154.01—
                     154.06
170      9-14-2005   155.055;
                     155.063
171      10-10-2005  90.99
176      9-10-2007   155.059
                     154.20;
177      4-14-2008   154.22—
                     154.25
178      8-11-2008   154.21
                     155.075—
185      11-8-2010   155.078;
                     155.999
                     111.01—
191      9-16-2013   111.05;
                     111.99
                     112.01—
192      6-8-2015    112.09;
                     112.99
                     50.01;
                     50.02;
                     50.15;
198      7-11-2022   50.16;
                     50.30—
                     50.33;
                     50.99
                     90.06;
199      6-10-2023   90.21;
                     90.24;
                     90.28
200      6-10-2023   90.02;
                     90.06
                    
 
