ASHLAND, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 72, 2025, passed May 22, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor                Chuck D. Charles
Commissioners        Marty Gute
                     Richard “Sonny” Martin
                     Tim Renfroe
                     David J. “D.J.” Rymer, II
City Manager         Tony D. Grubb
Corporation Counsel  Andrew K. Wheeler
City Clerk/Paralegal Susan W. Maddix
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Writings and signatures
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.08   Construction of section references
   
10.09   Ordinances repealed
   
10.10   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.11   Ordinances saved
   
10.12   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.13   Conflicting provisions
   
10.14   Reference to offices
   
10.15   Errors and omissions
   
10.16   Historical and statutory references
   
10.17   Ordinances consistent with state law, each other; original ordinance
prevails in case of conflict
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Ashland Code, for which designation codified ordinances or code may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the traffic code. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the city.
   BOARDS. See OFFICERS.
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog or goat of any age or
sex.
(KRS 446.010(7))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Ashland irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   CODE. The code of ordinances of the city.
   COMMISSIONS. See OFFICER.
   COMMONWEALTH. See STATE.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Boyd County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
   DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
   DEPARTMENTS. See OFFICERS.
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EMPLOYEES. See OFFICERS.
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOLLOWING. See PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   IN THE CITY. Includes all territory over which the city now has, or shall
hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Ashland Board of Commissioners.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MISDEMEANOR. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both.
(KRS 83A.065)
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPAL ORDER. An official act of the Board of Commissioners which is
binding upon the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency
over which the municipality has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(9))
   MUNICIPALITY. See CITY.
   NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   OCCUPANT. See TENANT.
   OFFICER. Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS and EMPLOYEES. Officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees referred to in this code shall
mean officers, departments, boards, commissions and employees of the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named in this code they shall mean
Eastern Time.
   ORDINANCE. An official act of the Board of Commissioners which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or
is an appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(11))
   OWNER. The word OWNER, applied to a building or land, shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies- politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROCESS. Includes a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial
proceedings of either a civil or criminal nature.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even- numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   RESOLUTION. An expression of the opinion, will or policy of the Board of
Commissioners on some matter of ministerial business which has come before the
Board. (While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal order, involves a
distinctly legislative act, a resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing
with matters of a special or temporary character.)
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. Includes a mark when the signer or
subscriber cannot write, the signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near
the mark by a witness who writes his or her own name near the signer’s or
subscriber’s name. A SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK can be acknowledged or
can serve as a signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two
witnesses so sign their own names thereto.
   STATE or COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. See SIGNATURE.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM. An aircraft that is operated without the
possibility of direct human interaction from within or on the aircraft and
includes everything that is on board or otherwise attached to the aircraft and
all associated elements, including communication links and the components that
control the small unmanned aircraft that are required for the safe and
efficient operation of the unmanned aircraft in the national airspace system.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   VIOLATION. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(KRS 83A.065)
   WEEK. A WEEK consists of seven consecutive days.
   WRITING. Includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language, unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 10.02) (Ord. 47-2007, passed 5-3-2007; Ord. 118-2010, passed 11-
18-2010; Ord. 120-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
City Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners
in enacting any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held
unconstitutional the remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the
ordinance provides otherwise, or unless the remaining parts are so essentially
and inseparably connected with and dependent upon the unconstitutional part
that it is apparent that the Board of Commissioners would not have enacted the
remaining parts without the unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining
parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the intent of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.07 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.08 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.09 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.12 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by ordinances
passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter, section or
division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted
shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until the City
Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.13 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.14 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.15 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.16 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES CONSISTENT WITH STATE LAW, EACH OTHER; ORIGINAL ORDINANCE
PREVAILS IN CASE OF CONFLICT.
   The requirements contained in KRS 83A.060 are that the ordinances of the
city be consistent with state law and with one another and that the city’s
ordinances and code of ordinances shall be revised when necessary to eliminate
redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and invalid provisions. However, should a
discrepancy, conflict or inconsistency arise between the code of ordinances and
an ordinance as a result of an error or omission in the codification process,
the original ordinance shall prevail and constitute the better source and
contain controlling language.
(Prior Code, § 10.19) (Ord. 10-1984, passed 2-11-1984)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offense shall be deemed a violation and be punishable pursuant to KRS 534.040,
or as provided in a specific penalty by any applicable statute. Every day any
violation of this code or any other ordinance of the city shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   CITY POLICIES
      
32.   CIVIL PREPAREDNESS
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AND AGENCIES
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
37.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Meetings to be open to public; exceptions
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Order of business; exception
   
30.04   Sponsor of ordinance or resolution to be identified
   
30.05   Consent agenda
   
30.06   Days, time and place for regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners
   
30.07   Mayor Pro-Tem
§ 30.01 MEETINGS TO BE OPEN TO PUBLIC; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 61.805 through 61.850, are hereby adopted as the
overriding policy relating to meetings of the Board of Commissioners of the
city and of every other public agency of the city, as such are defined therein,
including, but not limited to, the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning
Adjustment, Board of Housing Appeals, Tennis Commission, Park Board, Urban
Renewal and Community Development Agency, Ethics Commission, Commission on
Human Rights and the Housing Commission.
   (B)   All meetings of a quorum of the Board of Commissioners and of every
other public agency at which any public business is discussed or at which any
action is taken shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times,
except for the following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property,
but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of a specific piece
of property to be acquired for public use or sold by the city or any public
agency thereof;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the city or any public agency thereof;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between the city as a public
employer and its employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline or dismissal of an individual employee or member of the Board of
Commissioners or a public agency, without restricting that employee’s or
member’s right to a public hearing if requested. This exception shall not be
interpreted to permit discussion of general personnel problems in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Meetings which federal or state laws specifically require to be
conducted in privacy.
      (7)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (8)   Deliberations of judicial or quasi- judicial bodies regarding
individual adjudication’s or appointments, at which neither the person
involved, his or her representatives, nor any other individual not a member of
the agency’s governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings
of planning commissions, zoning commissions or boards of adjustment.
   (C)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the Board of Commissioners or of a public agency of the city, and
where the meetings are held for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of
division (B) of this section, shall be subject to the requirements of division
(B) of this section. Nothing in this division (C) shall be construed to
prohibit discussion between individual members where the purpose of the
discussion is to educate the members on specific issues.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, the
following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting closed
sessions authorized by KRS 61.810:
         (a)   Notice shall be given in regular open meeting of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in the closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the specific provision of KRS 61.810 authorizing the
closed session;
         (b)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and
carried by a majority vote in an open public session;
         (c)   No final action may be taken at a closed session; and
         (d)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
      (2)   Public agencies and activities of public agencies identified in
divisions (B)(2), (B)(3) and (B)(5) through (B)(8) shall be excluded from the
requirements of division (D)(1) of this section.
   (E)   All public agencies within the city as such are defined in KRS 61.805
shall hold all meetings in accordance with the terms of that legislation and
shall hold such meetings at specified times and places which are convenient to
the public, and shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings by resolution,
bylaws or other means required for the conduct of business. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
   (F)   All public agencies within the city as such are defined in KRS 61.805
shall take appropriate action by amendment of bylaws, adoption of resolutions,
or by other means to conform to the requirements of this section and KRS 61.805
through 61.850, as added to KRS Chapter 61. All bylaws, resolutions or other
action deemed to be taken shall be in writing, submitted to the Legal
Department of the city for approval, and placed on file in the office of the
Clerk of the city for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 24-1974, passed 7-2-1974)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions of (B) through (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the Board of
Commissioners or of a public agency of the city may call a special meeting.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners or the public agency shall provide written
notice of the special meeting. The notice shall consist of the date, time and
place of the special meeting and the agenda. Discussions and action at the
meeting shall be limited to items listed on the agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile machine, or mailed to every member of the
Board of Commissioners or public agency, as well as each media organization
which has filed a written request, including a mailing address, to receive
notice of special meetings. The notice shall be calculated so that it shall be
received at least 24 hours before the special meeting. The public agency may
periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar year, inform media
organizations that they will have to submit a new written request or no longer
receive written notice of special meetings until a new written request is
filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (D)(1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of personal delivery, facsimile machine or mail. The
written request shall include the electronic mail address or addresses of the
agency member or media organization.
      (3)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
Board of Commissioners or the public agency. The notice shall be calculated so
that it shall be posted at least 24 hours before the special meeting.
   (E)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with divisions
(C) and (D) of this section, this division (E) shall govern the conduct of a
special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to division (B)
of this section. The Board of Commissioners or the public agency shall make a
reasonable effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the
Board of Commissioners or public agency, media organizations which have filed a
written request pursuant to division (D)(1) of this section, and the public of
the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the emergency meeting, the person
chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for the record the emergency
circumstances preventing compliance with divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
These comments shall appear in the minutes. Discussions and action at the
emergency meeting shall be limited to the emergency for which the meeting is
called.
(KRS 61.823) (Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 116-2008, passed 11-20-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see KRS 83A.150(4)
§ 30.03 ORDER OF BUSINESS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   At regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners, the order of
business shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of and acting upon minutes of previous meetings;
      (3)   Consideration of and action upon the matters listed or referred to
upon the docket prepared by the City Manager; and
      (4)   Other business.
   (B)   By consent of four members of the Board of Commissioners, the order of
business herein set up may be departed from.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 SPONSOR OF ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   An indication shall be attached to each ordinance and resolution distributed
to the members of the Board of City Commissioners as follows:
   REQUESTED BY/SPONSORED BY ______.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 31-1982, passed 5-20-1982)
§ 30.05 CONSENT AGENDA.
   (A)   There is established a consent agenda for matters that are recommended
by the City Manager for approval by the City Commission with such items
enumerated individually but permitted to be voted on collectively by the City
Commission. Each vote of a member of the City Commission for the consent agenda
shall be recorded as a vote for each of the items listed within the consent
agenda. The consent agenda is limited to special event requests, payments,
purchases, bid advertisements, awards and rejections, travel and training,
Ashland Planning Commission denials, grant applications, acceptance of funds,
acceptance of donations, proposals, letters of support, personnel appointments,
rescindments and terminations, surplus property, bond issues and other minor
administrative and routine matters.
   (B)   Any member of the City Commission may request that an item be removed
from the consent agenda to be voted upon individually by the City Commissioner
by filing with the City Clerk a written notification prior to a City Commission
meeting. Such item shall be removed from the consent agenda and voted upon
separately by the Commission at that same Commission meeting.
   (C)   Any member of the City Commission may pre-file a written request with
the City Clerk for abstention on any item listed on the consent agenda and will
be recorded as so voting.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. 118-2015, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 30.06 DAYS, TIME AND PLACE FOR REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS.
   Effective February 1, 2025 and continuing throughout subsequent years unless
amended, the Board of Commissioners shall hold two regular meetings each month,
with the exception of November and December. Said meetings shall convene at 5:
00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month and at 12:00 p.m. on the fourth
Thursday of each month in the Commissioners’ Chambers located on the third
floor of the City Building, Ashland, Kentucky. The one November meeting and
December meeting shall convene on the third Thursday at 12:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 133, passed 12-2-1993; Ord. 130-1996, passed 12-19-
1996; Ord. 174-1997, passed 12-18-1997; Ord. 113-1998, passed 12-3-1998; Ord.
145-1999, passed 12-16-1999; Ord. 61-2002, passed 6-20-2002; Ord. 73-2003,
passed 6-19-2003; Ord. 132-2003, passed 10-16-2003; Ord. 121-2008, passed 12-4-
2008; Ord. 114-2009, passed 9-3-2009; Ord. 55-2013, passed 6-6-2013; Ord. 17-
2015, passed 2-12-2015; Ord. 3-2016, passed 1-14-2016; Ord. 79-2016, passed 7-
5-2016; Ord. 38-2017, passed 4-27-2017; Ord. 30, 2020, passed 4-9-2020; Ord.
144, 2021, passed 10-14-2021; Ord. 173, 2022, passed 10-14-2022; Ord. 2, 2025,
passed 1-10-2025)
§ 30.07 MAYOR PRO-TEM.
   (A)   When the absence or disability of the Mayor shall prevent his or her
serving in the office and performing the duties and responsibilities of the
Mayor, these duties shall be administered temporarily by the Mayor Pro-Tem, a
Commission member chosen by the Commission as set forth in KRS 83A.130, and he
or she shall have the powers specified in KRS Chapter 83A and 39A.100.
   (B)   In the event the absence or disability of the Mayor Pro-Tem shall
prevent his or her serving in the office and performing the duties and
responsibilities of Mayor Pro-Tem, these duties shall be administered by an
Interim Mayor Pro-Tem. The Interim Mayor Pro-Tem shall be a Commission member
chosen by the Board of Commissioners as set forth in KRS 83A.130(2) and will
serve until the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem can resume their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30.07) (Ord. 16-2011, passed 2-3-2011)
CHAPTER 31: CITY POLICIES
Section
Public Records
   
31.001   Access to public records
Persons with Disabilities
   
31.015   Adoption of grievance procedures; administration
   
31.016   Who may file a complaint
   
31.017   Grievance procedures; hearings
   
31.018   Paratransit plan
Code of Ethics
   
31.030   Findings
   
31.031   Purpose
   
31.032   Definitions
   
31.033   Standards of conduct
   
31.034   Nepotism
   
31.035   Financial disclosure
   
31.036   City Ethics Commission
Municipal Property
   
31.050   Smoking policy
Identity Theft Red Flags
   
31.065   Definitions
   
31.066   Findings
   
31.067   Process of establishing a covered account
   
31.068   Access to covered account information
   
31.069   Credit card payments
   
31.070   Sources and types of red flags
   
31.071   Prevention and mitigation of identify theft
   
31.072   Updating the program
   
31.073   Program administration
   
31.074   Outside service providers
Drug and Alcohol Policy
   
31.085   Drug and alcohol-free workplace policy adopted
Grant Applications
   
31.100   Policy regarding submission of grant applications
Cross-reference:
   Concealed weapons prohibited on property owned, leased or controlled by the
city, see §§
130.17,
130.18
   Fair housing policy, see
Chapter 91
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 31.001 ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The Rules and Regulations Governing Access to the Public Records of the City
of Ashland, Kentucky, incorporated herein by reference, are hereby established
pursuant to KRS 61.876 as the rules and regulations governing access to all
governmental records of the city, which is governed by KRS Chapter 61 and not
exempt thereunder. The Rules and Regulations Governing Access to the Public
Records of the City of Ashland, Kentucky shall be filed in the office of the
City Clerk and shall be open for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 43-1976, passed 8-19-1976)
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 31.015 ADOPTION OF GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The procedures contained in this subchapter shall be the grievance
procedures for anyone who believes he or she has been discriminated against by
the city based on disability status with respect to federally funded programs.
   (B)   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the executive authority of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.10) (Ord. 112-1984, passed 10-16-1984)
§ 31.016 WHO MAY FILE A COMPLAINT.
   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by the Federal Revenue Sharing
Program Regulations and § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, may,
personally or by a representative, file a complaint with the office of the City
Manager. A person who has not personally been subjected to discrimination may
also file a complaint.
(Prior Code, § 31.11) (Ord. 112-1984, passed 10-16-1984)
§ 31.017 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES; HEARINGS.
   Any person (citizen, applicant or employee) who believes he or she has been
adversely affected by an act or decision by the city, and that such act or
decision was based on disability status, shall have the right to process a
complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   Step one. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to the
City Manager setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts
upon which the allegation is based. The City Manager’s office will prepare the
written statement for individuals needing such assistance.
   (B)   Step two. The City Manager shall contact the complainant no later than
15 days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting
with the objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case
shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days, nor more than 45
days after receiving the written statement. The meeting shall be held at a
location accessible to the complainant. There shall be prepared a written
documentary of the discussion at the informal meeting, which shall be preserved
in the records of the city.
   (C)   Step three. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision has
been made by the City Manager or the decision of the City Manager does not
satisfy the complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City
Commission by submitting a written request to the City Manager. The City
Manager’s office will prepare the written request for individuals needing
assistance.
   (D)   Step four. In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may
designate any person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and
participate in the discussion. The City Commission shall require the City
Manager to participate in the discussion of the grievance when it is brought
before the City Commission. The City Commission shall issue a written decision
on the matter within 15 days, and the decision shall be the final procedure for
the complainant at the local level. There shall be prepared a written
documentary of the discussion at the hearing, which shall be preserved in the
records of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.12) (Ord. 112-1984, passed 10-16-1984)
§ 31.018 PARATRANSIT PLAN.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts a paratransit plan for the city bus
system in order to comply with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act as
it relates to public transportation. The plan as attached to Ord. 1, passed 1-
21-1992 is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein. Copies
available for public inspection shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.13) (Ord. 1, passed 1-21-1992)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.030 FINDINGS.
   The Board of Commissioners find and declare that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts; and
   (B)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are faithfully
performed, and to apprise its officers and employees of the behavior which is
expected of them while conducting their duties.
(Prior Code, § 31.25) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994)
§ 31.031 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct for city officers and employees shall be clear,
consistent, and uniform in their application, and to provide city officers and
employees with advice and information concerning possible conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 31.26) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994)
§ 31.032 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE.
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership, or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
      (3)   A corporation that is family-owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely-held, and the shareholders, owners and officers of such a
corporation; and
      (4)   A corporation, business association or other business entity in
which the county government officer or employee serves as a compensated agent
or representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. An individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
government office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual:
      (1)   Files a notification and declaration for nomination for office with
the County Clerk or the Secretary of State; or
      (2)   Is nominated for office by a political party under KRS 118.105,
118.115, 118.325 or 118.760.
   CITY. The City of Ashland, Kentucky.
   CITY GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation or other entity formed by the city government or a combination of
city governments.
   CITY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full- time or part-time, employed by or serving the city government, or city
government agency who is not a city government officer.
   CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, who is elected to any city government office; or any
person who serves as a member of the governing body of any city government
agency or special taxing or non-taxing district.
   FAMILY MEMBER. Any relative who is first cousin or closer in relationship.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in an
individual’s household, or a person claimed by the individual or individual’s
spouse as a dependent for tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 31.27) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994)
§ 31.033 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city government officer or employee or member of his or her
immediate family shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in
any business, transaction or professional activity, which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his
or her official position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for
himself or herself.
   (C)   No city government officer shall act in his or her official capacity
in any matter where he or she, a member of his or her immediate family, or a
business organization in which he or she has an interest, has a direct or
indirect financial or person involvement that might reasonably be expected to
impair his or her objectivity or independence of judgment.
   (D)   No city government officer or employee shall undertake any employment
or service, compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice
his or her independence of judgement in the exercise of his or her official
duties.
   (E)   No city government officer or employee shall be prohibited from giving
or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public service,
commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the lender’s
business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses, entertainment,
meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public events, appearance,
ceremonies or fact finding trips related to official city government business.
   (F)   No city government officer shall be prohibited from accepting a
gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
   (G)   No city government officer or employee shall use, or allow to be used,
in his or her public office or employment, or any information, not generally
available to the members of the public, which he or she receives or acquires in
the course of and by reason of his or her office or employment, for the purpose
of securing financial gain for himself or herself, any member of his or her
family, or any business organization with which he or she is associated.
   (H)   No city government officer or employee or business organization in
which he or she has an interest shall represent any person or party other than
the city government in connection with any cause, proceeding, application or
other matter pending before any agency in the city government in which he or
she serves.
   (I)   No city government officer shall be deemed in conflict with these
provisions if, by reason of this participation in the enactment of any
ordinance, resolution or other matter required to be voted upon, no material or
monetary gain accrues to him or her as a member of any business, profession,
occupation or group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably be
expected to accrue to any other member of such business, profession, occupation
or group.
   (J)   No elected city government officer shall be prohibited from making an
inquiry for information or providing assistance on behalf of a constituent, if
no fee, reward or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by
the officer or a member of his or her immediate family, whether directly or
indirectly, in return therefore.
   (K)   Nothing shall prohibit any city government officer or employee, or
members of his or her immediate family, from representing himself or herself,
or themselves, in negotiations or proceedings concerning his, her or their, own
interests.
(Prior Code, § 31.28) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994)
§ 31.034 NEPOTISM.
   No person shall be employed by the city for services in any department of
the city who is related by blood or marriage to any currently serving elected
city official or the City Manager in any of the following degrees of
relationship: husband, wife, father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister,
father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or
sister-in-law as adopted by Ord. 82-2001. This provision shall not apply to a
public officer’s member of immediate family who, on the date of the officer’s
election or appointment, has been employed for a least six months by the city.
All family members must meet job qualifications.
(Prior Code, § 31.29) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994; Ord. 142-2003, passed
11-20-2003)
§ 31.035 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial
disclosure statement:
      (1)   Elected officers;
      (2)   Candidates for elected office;
      (3)   City Manager; and
      (4)   All department heads.
   (B)   The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of filer;
      (2)   Current business address, business telephone number and home
address of filer;
      (3)   Title of filer’s public office or office sought;
      (4)   Occupations of filer and spouse;
      (5)   Positions held by the filer and any member of the filer’s immediate
family in any business organization or non-profit entity from which the filer
or any member of the filer’s immediate family received compensation in excess
of $10,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address and
telephone number of the business organization or non-profit entity;
      (6)   Name and address of each source of income of the filer and spouse
from within the Commonwealth of Kentucky which exceed $10,000 during the
preceding calendar year;
      (7)   Name and address of each business organization located within the
Commonwealth in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family
had an interest of $10,000 at the fair market value;
      (8)   The location of all property within the county, in which the filer
or any member of the filer’s immediate family had an interest of $10,000 or
more during the past year;
      (9)   Any officer or employee, or any member of his or her immediate
family, of the city government who shall have any private financial interest,
directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any
department or agency of the city government shall disclose such private
interest to the Board of Commissioners in writing;
      (10)   Any officer or employee or a member of his or her immediate
family, who has a private interest in any matter pending before the Board of
Commissioners shall disclose such private interest on the records of the Board
of Commissioners and shall disqualify himself or herself from participating in
any decision or vote relating thereto; and
      (11)   Any officer or employee, or a member of his or her immediate
family, of an independent agency or special district to which this code of
ethics applies who shall have any private financial interest, directly or
indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such independent
agency or special district shall disclose such private interest to the
governing body of such agency or district.
   (C)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing the
statement of financial interest. Knowingly signing a fraudulent statement shall
be a Class A misdemeanor.
   (D)   All pay and benefits shall be withheld until a noncomplying officer or
employee is in compliance with the filing requirements. Candidates and nominees
who fail to comply with these filing requirements shall be fined $50 for each
day they are in noncompliance.
   (E)   The financial disclosure statements shall be filed with the City Clerk
no later than February 15 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 31.30) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994)
§ 31.036 CITY ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Composition. The City Ethics Commission shall consist of five members;
not more than one member may be a public official. The Commission member
selected as Chairperson shall be a citizen member. Members shall receive no
compensation, but may be reimbursed all necessary expenses. The terms of
members shall be staggered and no longer than four years. The five members
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (1)   All appointments shall be made no later than 60 days after the
adoption of this subchapter.
      (2)   Vacancies on the Ethics Commission shall be filled within 60 days
by the Mayor subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners. If a
vacancy is not filled by the Mayor within 60 days, the remaining members of the
Ethics Commission shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Ethics Commission may receive complaints; and conduct
investigations, inquiries and hearings concerning any matter covered by this
subchapter.
      (2)   The Ethics Commission may render advisory opinions whether or not a
given set of facts and circumstances constitute a violation of any provision of
this subchapter.
      (3)   The Ethics Commission shall prescribe and provide forms for
reports, statements, notices and other documents required by this subchapter.
      (4)   The Ethics Commission shall determine whether the required
statements and reports have been filed and, if filed, whether they conform with
the requirements of this code. The Commission shall promptly give notice to the
filer to correct or explain any omission or deficiency.
      (5)   The Ethics Commission may retain private counsel at the expense of
the city if the City Attorney has an actual or potential conflict. Any counsel
must be pre-approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Complaint procedure; preliminary investigations.
      (1)   (a)   Upon a complaint signed under penalty of perjury by any
person, or, the Ethics Commission shall investigate any alleged violation of
this subchapter.
         (b)   No later than ten days after the Commission receives the
complaint, the Ethics Commission shall initiate a preliminary inquiry into any
alleged violation of this subchapter.
         (c)   Within 30 days of the commencement of the inquiry, the Ethics
Commission shall forward a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the
applicable law to the person alleged to have committed a violation.
      (2)   All Ethics Commission proceedings and records relating to a
preliminary investigation shall be confidential until a final determination is
made by the Commission, except the Commission may turn over to the
Commonwealth’s Attorney or County Attorney of the jurisdiction in which the
offense allegedly occurred, evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (3)   The complaint or alleged violator shall not publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary investigation, the Ethics Commission shall not
publicly confirm the existence of the inquiry nor make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
      (4)   The Ethics Commission shall afford a person who is the subject of a
preliminary investigation an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard and to offer evidence in response to the allegations in the
complaint.
      (5)   Any person who knowingly files with the Commission a false
complaint of misconduct on the part of any elected or appointed official or
other person shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (D)   Action by Ethics Commission. If the Ethics Commission concludes in its
report that in consideration of the evidence produced at the hearing there is
clear and convincing proof of a violation of this subchapter, the Commission
may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation, which order may be public or private;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Board of Commissioners and the City
Manager;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Board of Commissioners and the City
Manager that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Ethics
Commission, which may include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this subchapter or state
laws to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
   (E)   Appeals. Any person found by the Ethics Commission to have committed a
violation of this subchapter may appeal the action to the Boyd Circuit Court.
The appeal shall be initiated within 30 days after the date of the final action
of the Ethics Commission by filing a petition with the court against the Ethics
Commission. The Ethics Commission shall transmit to the Circuit Clerk all
evidence considered by the Ethics Commission at the public hearing. The court
shall hear the appeal upon the record as certified by the Ethics Commission.
(Prior Code, § 31.31) (Ord. 155-1994, passed 11-17-1994)
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 31.050 SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. Smoking poses a significant risk to the health of smokers.
Additionally, there is increasing recognition that smoking is annoying and even
hazardous to non-smokers. In order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of city employees and persons conducting business with the city, this
section is enacted to establish reasonable and uniform limitations and controls
for smoking in public places.
   (B)   Designated non-smoking and smoking areas. All public places, buildings
and offices owned and operated by the city and city-owned vehicles shall be
designated non-smoking areas, unless specifically designated as a smoking area.
Areas may be designated as smoking areas subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   No public and/or limited access area commonly used by city
employees and the public may
be designated a smoking area, including, but not limited to, Commission
Chambers, conference rooms, auditoriums, restrooms, hallways, entrance area,
storage rooms, closets, lobbies, copier rooms and customer service areas
without approval as noted in division (B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   City departments may request certain areas be designated as smoking
areas. Such requests shall be made in writing and shall be investigated and
recommended for approval or denial by the city in accordance with city
policies. Designation of a smoking area shall be approved by the City Manager
and conspicuously posted.
      (3)   Offices within city buildings shall not be designated as a smoking
area.
      (4)   In addition to public places, a city-owned vehicle may be
designated a smoking area if all employees in the vehicle agree to allow
smoking subject to rules of the Department involved. This designation does not
need approval of the City Manager.
   (C)   Smoke breaks. No employee will be provided additional break time as a
result of this policy. It is anticipated that employees wishing to smoke shall
do so during those breaks normally provided by departmental policy or
procedure.
   (D)   Enforcement/penalty for violation.
      (1)   All employees are charged with informing members of the public of
the details of this policy. An employee who observes a member of the public
smoking in an area designated non-smoking should politely inform the citizen
that smoking is prohibited and to extinguish their tobacco product.
      (2)   All supervisors are charged with informing their employees of the
details of this policy. A supervisor who observes an employee smoking in an
area designated non-smoking should ask them to refrain from smoking. Discipline
for willful violations of this policy should follow those steps described in
the city’s personnel rules and regulations and shall be subject to any other
penalty described herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.40) (Ord. 45-2003, passed 4-3-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Smoking in public places and places of employment, see
Chapter 99
IDENTITY THEFT RED FLAGS
§ 31.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Other
than CITY and PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION, definitions provided in this
section are based on the definitions provided in 16 C.F.R. part 681.2.
   CITY. The City of Ashland.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, covered account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonable foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation or
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes covered companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and driver’s
license information and for a natural person includes their Social Security
number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.50) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.066 FINDINGS.
   (A) The city is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. part 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of city
services include water, sewage and garbage.
   (C)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (D)   The city limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the city’s computer system and shall
be filed in a secure area.
   (E)   The city determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s identifying information to
establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account of accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method of
payment.
(Prior Code, § 31.51) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.067 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   As a precondition to opening a covered account in the city, each
applicant shall provide the city with personal identifying information of the
customer (valid photo identification card, address, phone number, date of
birth, employer and if renting and deemed necessary by the customer service
representative a copy of the lease. For accounts being opened over the phone,
if the customer service representative suspects a problem, then it will be
required that the customer fax a copy of the driver’s license and lease if
renting). Such information shall be entered directly into the city’s computer
system and shall be filed in a secure location.
   (B)   Each account shall be assigned an account number which shall be unique
to that account.
(Prior Code, § 31.52) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.068 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be limited to authorized city
personnel.
   (B)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Finance Director.
   (C)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 31.53) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.069 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments are made over the internet, are
processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the city’s website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer date base.
   (C)   Account receipts for covered accounts shall include only the last four
digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used for payment of the
covered account.
(Prior Code, § 31.54) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.070 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include:
   (A)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (B)   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer;
      (2)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (3)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (4)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (5)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers;
      (6)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (7)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and
      (8)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (C)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of suspicious activity include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
city receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
and
         (b)   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns.
      (4)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (5)   The city is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements;
      (6)   The city is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account; and
      (7)   The city is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (D)   Notice. Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other
reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to
covered accounts.
(Prior Code, § 31.55) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.071 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTIFY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted theft is likely or
probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to his or her
supervisor. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that identity
theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red
flags, the employee shall convey this information to his or her supervisor, who
may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is necessary. If
the supervisor in his or her discretion determines that further action is
necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the following
responses, as determined to be appropriate by his or her supervisor:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other that the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (5)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identify theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her
discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity
theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red
flags to his or her supervisor. If, in his or her discretion, such employee
deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available
to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to his or
her supervisor, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further
action is necessary. If the supervisor in his or her discretion determines that
further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the
following responses, as determined to be appropriate by his or her supervisor:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Prior Code, § 31.56) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.072 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   The Finance Director shall annually review and, as deemed necessary, update
the identity theft prevention program along with any relevant red flags in
order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness
of the city and its covered accounts from identity theft. In so doing, the
Finance Director shall consider the following factors and exercise its
discretion in amending the program:
   (A)   The city’s experiences with identity theft;
   (B)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
   (C)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
   (D)   Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains;
and
   (E)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Prior Code, § 31.57) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.073 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   The Finance Director is responsible for oversight of the program and for
program implementation. The City Manager is responsible for reviewing reports
prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and with
recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion of
the City Manager, to address changing identity theft risks and to identify new
or discontinued covered types of covered accounts. Any recommended material
changes to the program shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for
consideration.
   (A)   The Finance Director will report to the City Manager, at least
annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will address
material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of city in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (B)   The Accounts Receivable Supervisor is responsible for providing
training to all employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered
account, restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a
covered account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the
identity theft prevention program. The Accounts Receivable Supervisor shall
exercise his or her discretion in determining the amount and substance of
training necessary.
(Prior Code, § 31.58) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
§ 31.074 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the city engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts the Finance Director shall
exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Prior Code, § 31.59) (Ord. 122-2010, passed 12-2-2010)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
§ 31.085 DRUG AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city’s Board of City Commissioners hereby adopts a drug and alcohol
policy for submission to the Kentucky Department of Workers’ Claims to receive
drug free workplace certification. Said policy is attached to Ord. 30, 2013,
and made a part of this code by reference.
(Prior Code, § 31.70) (Ord. 30-2013, passed 3-21-2013)
GRANT APPLICATIONS
§ 31.100 POLICY REGARDING SUBMISSION OF GRANT APPLICATIONS.
   It shall be the policy of the city that any and all grant applications
submitted on behalf of the city to any private or governmental agencies shall
first be submitted to the City Public Information Officer who shall review and
make a record of such proposed applications; then to the City Manager for his
or her review and modification at his or her discretion; and then to the
Ashland Board of City Commissioners for its formal approval. No grant
application on behalf of the city or an agency thereof shall be submitted
without first being approved by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners
in session.
(Prior Code, § 31.80) (Ord. 47-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 31, 2020, passed 4-
9-2020)
CHAPTER 32: CIVIL PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
32.01   Adoption of Emergency Operations Plan by reference
   
32.02   Adoption of National Incident Management System (NIMS) by reference
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Board of City Commissioners by the virtue of the powers and
authorities vested by the Constitution and the laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and in accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A to 39G,
applicable Kentucky Administrative Regulations, and the interlocal agreement
for civil preparedness do hereby order and direct the following: the Ashland,
Boyd County and Catlettsburg emergency operations plan is hereby officially
approved and adopted.
   (B)   The conveyance of the official approval and adoption of the Ashland,
Boyd County and Catlettsburg emergency operations plan through this section
shall remain continuously in effect from and after the date of its adoption as
shown herein of until superseded by a subsequent ordinance promulgated in
accordance with KRS 39B.030(3), 39B.060(2) and 39C.050(3), applicable Kentucky
Administrative Regulations, and planning guidance issued by the Kentucky
Division of Emergency Management.
   (C)   A copy of the officially approved and adopted Ashland, Boyd County and
Catlettsburg emergency operations plan, including the ordinance enacting this
section shall be placed on file for public inspection during regular office
hours at the Office of Emergency Management, 12327 Anthony Drive, Ashland,
Kentucky 41102.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 108-1980, passed 11-20-1980; Ord. 99-2002, passed
9-5-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Mutual aid agreements, see
TSO XI
§ 32.02 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS) BY REFERENCE.
   The Ashland Board of City Commissioners hereby adopts for use the National
Incident Management System (NIMS) as the standard for all incident management
in the City of Ashland, Kentucky.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 05-2005, passed 2-3-2005)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Adoption of state law relative to fire and police pension systems
   
33.02   Standard Operating Procedures
Hiring Regulations
   
33.15   Introduction
   
33.16   Vacancies; advertising requirements
   
33.17   Prerequisite qualifications and requirements of applicants for
firefighter
   
33.18   Re-employment
   
33.19   Testing and evaluation procedures
   
33.20   Applications
   
33.21   Written examinations
   
33.22   Physical ability test
   
33.23   Experience/certifications
   
33.24   Education
   
33.25   Background check
   
33.26   General interview
   
33.27   Military service
   
33.28   City residency
   
33.29   Points and ranking
   
33.30   Chief officer interview
   
33.31   Conditional offer of employment/eligibility list
   
33.32   Candidate physical ability test (CPAT)
   
33.33   Medical physical examination
   
33.34   Polygraph
   
33.35   Psychological evaluation
   
33.36   Recommendation for probationary appointment
   
33.37   Termination of employment during the probationary period
   
33.38   Career appointment
Hazardous Materials Emergency Response Plan
   
33.50   Purpose and objectives
   
33.51   Incident classifications
   
33.52   Incident command and scene management
   
33.53   Control zones
   
33.54   Operational plan activation
   
33.55   Immediate on-scene actions
   
33.56   Cost recovery
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW RELATIVE TO FIRE AND POLICE PENSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 79.080 are hereby included and incorporated into
the framework of the city’s pension system relating to members of the Police
and Fire Divisions of the city, which pension system is not regulated pursuant
to KRS 95.852.
   (B)   The following excerpt from KRS 79.080 is included herein: “Any plan
adopted shall provide that any officer or member of a paid Fire or Police
Department who has completed five years or more as a member of the Department,
but who is unable to perform his or her duties by reason of heart disease or
any disease of the lungs or respiratory tract, is presumed to have contracted
his or her disease while on active duty as a result of strain or the inhalation
of noxious fumes, poison or gases, and shall be retired by the Pension Board
under terms of the pension system of which he or she is a member, if the member
passed an entrance physical examination and was found to be in good health as
required.”
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 4-1971, passed 3-8-1971)
§ 33.02 STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Standard Operating Procedures of the Ashland Fire Department are
hereby adopted in full. A copy of the Standard Operating Procedures of the Fire
Department are attached to Ord. 97, 2022, passed June 10, 2022, and made a part
hereof by reference.
   (B)   One copy shall be kept on file in the offices of the City Clerk, being
marked and designated as the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the Fire
Department and one copy shall be kept in the office of the Fire Department and
kept current at all times.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 97, 2022, passed 6-10-2022)
HIRING REGULATIONS
§ 33.15 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The procedures and requirements for recruitment, selection,
employment, training and evaluation of entrance-level firefighters with the
rank of firefighter for the Department of Fire (also referred to herein as the
“Fire Department”) of the City of Ashland, Kentucky shall be hereafter
prescribed in this subchapter or any future amending or superseding ordinance
hereto.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the
“Comprehensive Hiring Ordinance for the Fire Department of the City of
Ashland”.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, those words, terms or phrases used
herein in the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender, and those
words, terms or phrases used herein in the feminine gender shall include the
masculine gender, except where the usage clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.16 VACANCIES; ADVERTISING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Fire Chief that a vacancy or vacancies exist
for the position of firefighter within the Fire Department of the city, the
City Manager may authorize the Human Resources Department to make public by
appropriate advertising, the intent of the city to employ such personnel. Basic
prerequisite qualifications for firefighter, dates, hours, and place
applications and/or testing are available and closing dates for receiving
applications shall be indicated in such advertisement.
   (B)   The city is an equal opportunity employer without regard to race,
color, religion, ethnicity, gender, age, national origin or disability.
   (C)   The requirement for any documentation to be attached to or presented
with the completed application shall be noted thereon.
(Prior Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.17 PREREQUISITE QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICANTS FOR
FIREFIGHTER.
   Prior to being administered any written or other examination for the
position of firefighter, each applicant must meet the following prerequisite
requirements. The applicant must:
   (A)   On the date of submission of the application be 18 years of age and
not over 39 years of age and provide a copy of their legal birth certificate;
   (B)   On the date of submission of the application, be a high school
graduate or must have obtained a general education development (GED) diploma
for high school level education and provide a copy of the high school diploma
or official certificate of receipt of GED;
   (C)   Be an orderly, law abiding citizen;
   (D)   Be a person of sobriety and integrity;
   (E)   Be of sound mind and body;
   (F)   Be willing to undergo a thorough personal background investigation
prior to a conditional offer of employment, as part of the employment screening
process;
   (G)   After a conditional offer of employment, successfully complete a
thorough medical physical examination as required prior to probationary
appointment, provided the candidate satisfactorily passes all other performance
requirements;
   (H)   Have any other qualifications as may be prescribed by Kentucky
Statutes or ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to, the
candidate physical ability test (CPAT) per KRS 95A.040;
   (I)   As a pre-condition to employment and a condition to continued
employment, execute a waiver to submit to random testing for illicit drugs.
This waiver shall be in force as long as the candidate is employed by the
Ashland Fire Department;
   (J)   Provide a truthful statement certifying that the candidate has not
used illicit drugs for the past 12 months;
   (K)   Be willing to submit to and successfully complete a polygraph test and
psychological screening at the option of the city prior to probationary
appointment;
   (L)   Possess and maintain a valid driver’s license and provide a copy of
that license;
   (M)   If a discharged veteran of the armed forces of the United States,
official documentation, DD 214, shall be presented with complete application.
This documentation must show reason for discharge. The applicant shall have
received an honorable discharge; and
   (N)   If hired, applicant must acquire certification as a Kentucky
Firefighter Basic II with IFSAC Firefighter 1, IFSAC Firefighter 2, IFSAC Haz-
Mat Awareness, and IFSAC Haz-Mat Operations within one year of employment. The
candidate shall also acquire and maintain a Kentucky emergency medical
technician certification and a hazardous materials technician certification
within two years of employment.
(Prior Code, § 33.12) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.18 RE-EMPLOYMENT.
   The purpose of this section is to allow the city to re-employ trained
qualified personnel to the ranks of the Fire Department under the following
conditions:
   (A)   Employee left city service in good standing;
   (B)   Employee was employed for at least one year;
   (C)   Employee meets all current employment requirements; and
   (D)   Re-employment has the recommendation of the City Manager, and approval
of the Mayor and City Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.13) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.19 TESTING AND EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   The following will be used in the testing and hiring procedure. The order in
which the procedures are performed up to the conditional offer of employment is
subject to administrative change and may be performed in any given order. They
are as follows:
   (A)   Applications;
   (B)   Written examination;
   (C)   Physical ability test;
   (D)   Experience/certification points awarded;
   (E)   Education points awarded;
   (F)   Background and qualifications check;
   (G)   General oral interview;
   (H)   Points and ranking;
   (I)   Chief officer interview;
   (J)   Recommendation by the Fire Chief to the City Manager for a conditional
offer of employment, pending satisfactory results of remaining procedures;
   (K)   Candidate obtains candidate physical ability test (CPAT, this has to
be obtained by date indicated on hiring packet);
   (L)   Medical physical examination;
   (M)   Polygraph;
   (N)   Psychological evaluation;
   (O)   Recommendation from the City Manager to the Board of Commissioners for
probationary appointment;
   (P)   Approval from Board of Commissioners;
   (Q)   Probationary appointment; and
   (P)   Career appointment.
(Prior Code, § 33.14) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.20 APPLICATIONS.
   The processing of applications for the position of firefighter for the city
shall be the responsibility of the Human Resources Department for the city.
Guidelines will be available to the candidate outlining how applications can be
obtained and submitted per the current policy of the Human Resources
Department. Applications that are submitted with incomplete or missing
information or documentation shall not be accepted and the candidate will not
be permitted to complete the testing process.
(Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.21 WRITTEN EXAMINATIONS.
   Within a reasonable time after the closing date of receiving applications,
applicants who have returned their completed applications and who meet the
prerequisite requirements of §
33.17 of this subchapter, shall be administered written examinations to
determine the fitness of each applicant for the position to be filled,
covering, but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Knowledge of and the ability to read, write and understand the English
language;
   (B)   The ability to observe and recall information, facts and
characteristics relevant to the duties of the position applied for;
   (C)   Ability to understand and follow directions correctly;
   (D)   General comprehension and knowledge; and
   (E)   A psychological suitability screening may also be included within the
written examination. Passing grade for such written examination shall be a
minimum of 70 percentile (70%). The point values of indicated ratings for the
written examination shall be 35 points for a score of 70, 35.5 for a score of
71, continuing up to and including 100% with the highest possible score being
50 points:
 
Percentile 100 99   98 72 71   70
Points     50  49.5 49 36 35.5 35
 
(Prior Code, § 33.15) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.22 PHYSICAL ABILITY TEST.
   (A)   Each applicant shall be required to satisfactorily complete a physical
ability test at a place and time selected by the city. The purpose of the
evaluation is to determine, as accurately as possible, the ability of the
applicant to cope with the extreme physical stress of a firefighter. The same
evaluation shall be given to each applicant regardless of gender and evaluated
using accepted standards and norms for the position of firefighter. The
physical ability test shall be administered by Ashland Fire Department
personnel designated by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   All applicants will be assigned a time of arrival for the physical
ability test. Candidates shall enter the building no more than five minutes
prior to their assigned arrival time. Applicants will be instructed on where to
enter the building and where to park their vehicles in the hiring packet issued
to them prior to the test. Each applicant shall have a state or federal issued
ID and any other documentation requested in the hiring packet with them at the
time of arrival. Failure to present these items shall constitute automatic
removal from the process.
   (C)   The physical ability test shall be set up in an obstacle course
fashion. Each applicant shall receive an instruction packet prior to the
testing date explaining the testing procedures and grading criteria. The
applicant will be afforded the opportunity to ask any questions prior to the
start of the test. While completing the test, the applicant may ask the proctor
any questions, however, their time will continue and does not stop.
   (D)   To ensure the highest level of safety and to prevent applicants from
exhaustion, no running is allowed between events. A short walk between events
will be marked. This will permit the applicants to prepare for the next event.
Each event path shall be marked. Prior to starting the evaluation, applicants
will have vitals obtained (heart rate and blood pressure) and have them
rechecked after completing the evaluation.
   (E)   During the test, applicants must wear long pants. No open heel or open
toe shoes will be allowed. A 50 pound vest, to simulate the weight of the
firefighter protective equipment, gloves and hard hat will also be worn. In
addition, 25 pounds will be placed on the applicant’s shoulders for the stair
climb to simulate carrying a high-rise pack.
   (F)   The physical ability test shall consist of 11 separate events.
Applicants must successfully complete the first ten events within the required
time of 10:30. Applicants shall be scored according to their finish in the
timed events. That time shall include the total time and additions for any
penalties. The test time shall start when the high-rise pack bundle is picked
up off the ground. Warnings shall be assessed a five second addition of time to
the finish time of the applicant. The last event shall be the aerial climb. The
applicant shall have a maximum of ten minutes to rehab with the applicant
receiving approval after vitals to complete the aerial climb. The applicant
shall have ten minutes to complete the aerial climb once they begin. This event
will be scored as a pass/fail event.
   (G)   The physical ability test shall consist of the following skills.
      (1)   High rise pack carry. This event is designed to simulate the
critical tasks of climbing stairs in full protective clothing and carrying a
high-rise pack. An extra 25 pounds of weight shall be placed on the shoulders
of the applicant to simulate the weight of a high-rise pack and an actual high-
rise bundle of hose consisting of 50 feet of two and one- half inch hose in a
bundle, prior to the start of the event. The stairs will be three floors in
height. Once the applicant reaches the top of the stairs the 25-pound weight
shall be removed, and the hose bundle placed in the designated area. The
applicant may skip stairs on the way up the stairs. Failure to complete the
scenario or allowing the hose bundle to hit the ground other than the
designated area will result in failure of the examination.
      (2)   Hose hoist. This event is designed to simulate the critical task of
raising needed equipment to upper floors. The event is completed at the top of
a platform, three floors from the ground. Applicants must stand in a designated
area while using a rope to hoist a section of rolled hose. The rope shall
consist of five-eighths inch diameter rope and the rolled section of hose shall
be a 50-foot roll of two and one-half inch hose. The event is completed when
the hose clears the railing and is placed in the designated area. The applicant
will then proceed down the stairs to the next event. All steps must be touched,
and handrails used on the way down the stairs. Losing control and dropping the
hose and it strikes the ground shall result in a failure of the examination.
Wrapping the rope around your hand, letting the rope slip, not placing the rope
or hose in the proper are when finished, running down the stairs and failure to
use the stair handrails shall result in warnings to the applicant.
   (3)   Rescue drag. This event is designed to simulate the critical task of
removing a victim or injured firefighter from a fire scene. The event starts at
the rescue mannequin. Applicants shall grasp a 165- pound mannequin by the
handles on the shoulders of a harness, drag the mannequin 50 feet, make a 180
degree turn around a designated object, and back to the start. The event is
completed when the feet of the mannequin cross the finish line. Dropping and
losing control of the mannequin or the mannequin contacting the object you are
pulling it around will result in a failure of the examination.
      (4)   Equipment carry. This event is designed to simulate the critical
task of removing power tools from the apparatus, carrying them to the emergency
scene, and returning them to the apparatus. The event starts at the tool
compartment simulator. Applicants shall remove two saws, one at a time, from
the compartment and place them on the ground. The saws shall be one chain saw
and one K-12 saw. The applicant shall then pick up both saws, carry them 50
feet, complete a 180 degree turn around a designated object, and return to the
starting point. Both saws shall be placed on the ground, and returned, one at a
time, to the simulated tool compartment. The event is complete when both saws
are back in the compartment, in their original position. Dropping any of the
equipment will result in a failure of the examination. Allowing the equipment
to strike the object you are walking around will result in warnings to the
applicant.
      (5)   Hose drag. This event is designed to simulate the critical task of
dragging an uncharged hose from the apparatus to a designated area, and then
pulling the hose line around an object while kneeling. The event starts at the
nozzle end of a 200-foot one and three-fourths inch uncharged hose line.
Applicants must grasp the nozzle, place the hose line over their shoulder, drag
the line to the designated object, turn 90 degrees and continue to a marked
area. After reaching the designated area, the applicant must drop to at least
one knee and proceed to pull 50 feet of the hose into the designated area. The
event is completed when the 50-foot mark crosses the line of the designated
area. The applicant must remain in the designated area. Running is permitted
during this event. Dropping the hose during this event will result in failure
of the examination. Not staying in the designated area will result in warnings
to the applicant.
      (6)   Ladder extension. This event is designed to simulate the critical
task of extending a ladder to a roof or window. The event starts at a
designated area at the bottom of a 24-foot extension ladder. Applicants must
stand in the designated area while using a hand over hand method until the fly
section of the ladder is fully extended to the stops of the ladder. The fly
section will then be lowered, using the hand over hand method, back to the
starting position. Losing control of the fly section and letting the fly
section drop will result in failure of the examination. Letting the rope slip
or wrapping the rope around your hands will result in warnings to the
applicant.
      (7)   Ladder raise. This event is designed to simulate the critical task
of raising a ladder against a building. The event starts at the top rung of a
35-foot ladder, lying flat on the ground. Applicants must lift the end of the
ladder and walk the ladder up against the building. This shall be completed
using the hand over hand method, touching each rung of the ladder. Using the
side rails (beams) of the ladder will not be permitted. The event is complete
when the ladder is up against the wall. Dropping the ladder will result in
failure of the examination. Not utilizing the hand over hand method and
skipping rungs will result in warnings to the applicant.
      (8)   Forcible entry/ventilation. This event is designed to simulate the
critical task of using an axe to cut a hole for ventilation at a structure fire
incident. The event starts at a weighted sled. Applicants shall use a nine-
pound shot hammer to drive a 165-pound steel beam a horizontal distance of five
feet. Pushing, raking or hooking the beam to move it are not permitted. The
event is complete when the steel beam reaches the five-foot mark. Losing
control and dropping the hammer, pushing or pulling the sled will result in a
failure of the examination. Hitting the handle of the hammer and not placing
the hammer in the designated area when finished will result in warnings to the
applicant. Tape shall be placed near the head of the hammer for each applicant
and marks are assessed with damage to the tape. Each strike to the handle shall
constitute a warning to the applicant.
      (9)   Search. This event simulates the critical task of searching an area
with limited visibility and on an unpredictable surface. The event starts at
the search maze entrance. Applicants must enter on the bottom of the prop and
exit on the top of the prop passing through a confined area with reduced
visibility. The search maze prop shall be approximately 24 feet in length and
consist of a bottom and top level, each being two feet by two feet. The prop
shall be straight, with no bends or turns. The event is completed upon exiting
the maze. Failure of the applicant to complete the event will result in a
failure of the examination. Not entering or exiting the prop as instructed will
result in warnings to the applicant.
      (10)   Ceiling breach and pull. This event simulates the critical task of
breaching and pulling a ceiling to check for fire extension. This event is
completed at the pike pole simulator. Applicants, standing in a designated area
and using a pike pole, shall fully push up on the prop three times, then using
the pike pole hook pull down on the device five times. The event is completed
when four sets of three pushes and five pulls have been completed. The
applicant shall then exit the simulator and proceed to the finish line. Falling
off the prop, dropping the pike pole or the pike pole striking the ground will
result in failure of the examination. Time is stopped when the applicant
crosses the finish line.
      (11)   Aerial ladder climb. This event evaluates the applicant’s ability
to climb and work from heights. This event is held utilizing a 100-foot aerial
ladder, set at a 70-degree climbing angle, with the rungs aligned. Applicants
shall be placed in a safety harness and attached to a safety line during the
event. The applicant must touch the top rung of the aerial ladder. This event
shall be completed after the applicant receives medical clearance from on-scene
resources. The applicant shall start the aerial climb within ten minutes of
finishing the course and will have ten minutes to complete the event once
starting. Failure of the applicant to complete the 100-foot climb will result
in a failure of the examination.
   (H)   The applicant shall complete the evaluation with all articles of
clothing or equipment you start the test with. Time will continue until the
applicant and all items they began the test with, cross the finish line in the
same orientation you began the test in. Example: shoes on, gloves on, helmet
on. The following are examples of other actions that could result in a warning
or failure of the applicant:
      (1)   Running during the test except where permitted will result in a
warning;
      (2)   The applicant not staying on the designated path will result in a
warning;
      (3)   Not completing any portion of the evaluation will result in a
failure;
      (4)   Loss of helmet, gloves or vest during any event will result in a
warning;
      (5)   Loss of a shoe or clothing article will result in a warning and the
applicant must secure the item properly before proceeding on with the
evaluation. Time will not stop for this issue;
      (6)   Completing the test without your gloves, helmet or vest results in
a failure of the applicant; and
      (7)   Times more than 10:30 results in a failure of the applicant. During
the evaluation, if the time exceeds 10:30, the applicant shall be stopped and
removed from the course.
   (I)   The physical ability test shall be scored using a point value system
consisting of a maximum of 50 points possible. Applicants do not need to attain
a 70% minimum to continue in the process. Failure to complete any portion of
the testing or having a finish time greater than 10:30 will result in the
removal of the applicant from consideration for employment.
   (J)   The following shall be used in grading of applicants for the physical
ability test. All times shall include the applicants course time and added time
for warnings the applicant received. The scoring is as follows:
Time Earned Points
Time       Earned Points
5:00—5:2950
5:30—5:5945
6:00—6:2940
6:30—6:5935
7:00—7:2930
7:30—7:5925
8:00—8:2920
8:30—8:5915
9:00—9:2910
9:30—10:35
 
(Prior Code, § 33.17) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.23 EXPERIENCE/CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief and the Human Resources Director shall assign points
after comparing each applicant’s experience with the job description.
Experience points shall be awarded as either volunteer firefighter or career
firefighter, and they may not be combined.
   (B)   Experience points shall be awarded as follows:
      (1)   One point for prior time as a volunteer firefighter; and
      (2)   Two points for prior time as a career firefighter.
   (C)   Certification points shall be awarded as follows.
 
Certification                                                           Points
NFPA 1001 Level 1 firefighter as accredited by IFSAC or Pro-Board       1
NFPA 1001 Level 2 firefighter as accredited by IFSAC of Pro-Board       1
NFPA hazardous materials technician certification                       1
NFPA 1002 driver operator certifications as accredited by IFSAC or Pro- 1
Board
NREMT or Kentucky EMT-B                                                 1
 
(Prior Code, § 33.18) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.24 EDUCATION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief and the Human Resources Director shall assign education
points after a comparison of each applicant with the educational requirements
of the job description. Education in related fields will be recognized as any
degree in Fire Science, Arson Investigation, Fire Administration or Fire Rescue
Technology.
   (B)   Education points shall be awarded as follows:
      (1)   One point: Associate Degree in fire science or related field;
      (2)   Two points: Bachelor’s Degree in fire science or related field;
      (3)   Three points: Master’s Degree in fire science or related field.
(Prior Code, § 33.19) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.25 BACKGROUND CHECK.
   Each applicant shall be required to complete a detailed personal history
questionnaire (PHQ) and shall be subject to a comprehensive personal background
investigation conducted by a person designated by the Fire Chief who is trained
to conduct such investigation. The designated investigator may contact
references indicated on the PHQ and employment application and the references
personal evaluation of the applicant shall be noted. Further investigation
shall be made relating to each applicant’s criminal and driving records,
educational background, credit standing, military history, possession of an
official Kentucky Fire Commission CPAT certification card and the like, and any
other relevant information discovered during the investigation, or which might
relate to the applicant’s qualification for the position applied for. Such
investigation shall be continued until all elements of the personal background
have been verified or disproved. The investigator may prepare a written record
of all findings, which shall be reviewed and evaluated. The Fire Chief shall
make a recommendation to the City Manager as to the applicant’s fitness for the
position applied for.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.26 GENERAL INTERVIEW.
   The interview allows a maximum of 30 points. There is no minimum, however,
each interviewer shall mark candidates as acceptable or not acceptable. The
City Manager shall review the interview sheets marked not acceptable. Unless
the City Manager overrules the not acceptable recommendation for just cause, no
such candidate shall be recommended for hire. Members of the Interview Board
shall have full access to all employment information for use during the
interview. The General Interview Board shall consist of a board designated by
the Fire Chief. A member from Human Resources will facilitate the general
interview.
(Prior Code, § 33.21) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.27 MILITARY SERVICE.
   Two points shall be added to the total score for each candidate who has
served a minimum of two years in any branch of the United States military and
received an honorable discharge.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.28 CITY RESIDENCY.
   Two points shall be added to the total score for each candidate who has
established residency within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.29 POINTS AND RANKING.
   (A)   As soon as practical after the completion of §§
33.20 through
33.28 of this subchapter, the Human Resources Director shall prepare a list of
remaining applicants. They will be listed in order of highest point value
earned to lowest point value earned during the testing process.
   (B)   The top three applicants may be considered for a position. The Fire
Chief may interview the top three applicants on the eligibility list or may
elect to review the information for each of the top three applicants. The Fire
Chief shall have access to all information on the candidates gathered during
the process. The Fire Chief along with Human Resources, shall determine how
many applicants are selected for the chief officer interview. The remaining
applicants shall be ranked and placed on an eligibility list (see §
33.31 for guidance).
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.30 CHIEF OFFICER INTERVIEW.
   Once an applicant has been selected, they shall complete the chief officer
interview. The Chief Officer Interview Board shall consist of at least three
chief officers (Fire Chief, Deputy Chief, Battalion Chiefs) designated by the
Fire Chief from the Ashland Fire Department. A member from Human Resources will
facilitate the chief officer interview. Applicants will be interviewed based on
the information from their background to determine knowledge, skills, abilities
and motivation for the position of firefighter.
(Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.31 CONDITIONAL OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT/ELIGIBILITY LIST.
   (A)   The Fire Chief may then recommend one of the applicants for employment
to the City Manager. The City Manager may authorize a conditional offer of
employment to be given to the applicant pending the results of the remaining
sections listed in the hiring process. Once all testing is completed, the City
Manager may recommend the applicant to the Board of Commissioners for final
approval.
   (B)   The eligibility list will remain effective for one year from the date
the first applicant is appointed, or until the City Manager determines that a
new eligibility list shall be created, whichever is shorter. The Fire Chief,
with the City Manager’s approval, may request to extend the eligibility list
beyond one year. The applicant shall also agree to repeat any or all portions
of the initial hiring process as determined by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee.
   (C)   To qualify for the eligibility list the applicant shall agree to
affirmatively notify the city of any change of circumstances, personal
information or facts stated on the application.
   (D)   The name of the applicant shall be removed from the eligibility list
after appointment to a position, or after refusing an appointment to a
position, or after it becomes known that an applicant has engaged in fraud or
made a misstatement of material fact on the application form and/or
examination, or after the list has expired, or after the City Manager
determines a new list be created.
(Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.32 CANDIDATE PHYSICAL ABILITY TEST (CPAT).
   As per KRS 95A.040, any applicant must complete a candidate physical ability
test (CPAT), within one year prior to the date of appointment, unless already
employed in a career fire department. A candidate cannot be appointed without
holding a valid CPAT card. The hiring packet given to candidates at the onset
of this hiring process, shall prescribe a date that the candidate will need to
provide a valid CPAT card.
(Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.33 MEDICAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Each applicant who successfully passes all written, physical aptitude,
oral interviews, CPAT, and is offered a conditional offer of employment must
meet the following minimum physical examination standards prior to appointment
as a probationary firefighter.
   (B)   The required physical examination shall include, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Chest x-ray;
      (2)   Electrocardiogram;
      (3)   Audiometric exam;
      (4)   Pulmonary function studies;
      (5)   Visual acuity testing;
      (6)   CBC, blood chemistry profile and HIV testing;
      (7)   TB skin (unless history of previous positive testing);
      (8)   SCBA fit testing; and
      (9)   Urine drug screen.
   (C)   The findings of the medical history/physical examination, and the
preceding listed tests, should be compatible with performance of the mental and
physical demands as listed in the job description for firefighter. Placement of
an employee whose condition or history indicates other than normal health
should not put the employee, fellow workers or the public at any increased risk
of injury or health detriment.
   (D)   The examiner shall express his or her opinion in writing as to whether
the applicant is physically fit for duty as a firefighter. Conditions which are
of questionable etiology are to be referred to the prospective employee’s
personal physician for further evaluation prior to any medical clearance being
issues. The results and diagnosis from an employee’s personal physician may be
utilized in determining the fitness for placement.
   (E)   When the applicant(s) is (are) given the conditional offer of
employment and does (do) not successfully complete the medical physical
examination, the conditional offer of employment shall be withdrawn, and the
applicant(s) shall no longer be considered for employment. The Fire Chief shall
follow the procedure detailed in §
33.30 and recommend an applicant to the City Manager for a conditional offer of
employment. This process shall continue until qualified applicants have met all
requirements, the eligibility list has been depleted, expired or a decision is
made not to fill the position.
(Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.34 POLYGRAPH.
   Each applicant will be required to complete a polygraph examination, which
shall be conducted by a polygraph examiner selected by the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.35 PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATION.
   Each applicant shall be required to complete a psychological evaluation.
This evaluation shall use testing procedures that are valid, constructive and
nondiscriminatory. Candidates may also be screened by a qualified professional
psychologist or psychiatrist who will provide a report to the Fire Chief on the
candidate’s fitness for duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.16) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.36 RECOMMENDATION FOR PROBATIONARY APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Once the candidate has successfully completed appropriate testing
after the conditional offer of employment, the City Manager may recommend the
candidate to the Board of Commissioners for probationary appointment to the
Fire Department. After the Board of Commissioner’s vote, the candidate will be
notified of the results.
   (B)   Each applicant selected shall enter city service as a probationary
firefighter and shall serve a probationary period of one year, as herein
prescribed, with all pay, benefits and allowances pertinent thereto. This
probation can be extended at the discretion of the Fire Chief.
   (C)   The candidate shall perform, to the best of his or her ability, all
duties assigned to him or her and shall be subject to the same disciplinary
measures as every other member of the Ashland Fire Department, including, but
not limited to, written or oral reprimand, suspension and termination of
employment.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.37 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DURING THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Any probationary firefighter may be terminated from employment at any time
during the one year probationary period of employment or have their
probationary period extended at the discretion of the Fire Chief, with approval
of the City Manager and the Board of Commissioners, for any valid reason,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Inability to perform duties in a progressive manner;
   (B)   Physical or emotional incapacity;
   (C)   Inability to assimilate education and training;
   (D)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
   (E)   Public drunkenness by alcohol or any type of intoxicant, on or off
duty;
   (F)   Improper or illegal use of a vehicle or equipment;
   (G)   Insubordination;
   (H)   Negligence or incompetence;
   (I)   Any reason which demonstrates a member’s undesirable character or lack
of integrity; and
   (J)   Any other reason, which reflects negatively or with dishonor on the
city or its Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
§ 33.38 CAREER APPOINTMENT.
   Upon the satisfactory completion of one year of service with the Ashland
Fire Department as a probationary firefighter pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in this subchapter, and upon the recommendation of the
Fire Chief, and approval from the City Manager, such probationary firefighter
shall be awarded career status with all pay, benefits and allowances pertinent
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 172, 2024, passed 10-25-2024)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
§ 33.50 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Hazardous Materials Response Plan is to
establish an organization to mitigate hazardous materials incidents within the
city.
   (B)   Objectives.
      (1)   To describe operational concepts, organization and support systems
required to implement the plan;
      (2)   To identify authority, responsibilities, and actions of federal,
state, local and private industry agencies necessary to minimize damage to
human health, natural systems, and property and to aid in mitigating the
hazard;
      (3)   To establish an operational structure that has the ability to
function in case of hazardous materials incidents;
      (4)   To utilize Fire Department officers and members who have been
trained to handle hazardous materials incidents;
      (5)   To establish lines of authority and management for hazardous
materials incidents; and
      (6)   To establish financial responsibilities and cost recovery
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 33.60) (Ord. 78, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 33.51 INCIDENT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The basis used for determining the level of a hazardous material
incident are:
      (1)   Level of technical expertise required to abate the incident;
      (2)   Extent of municipal, county, and state government involvement;
      (3)   Extent of evacuation of civilians;
      (4)   Extent of injuries or death; and
      (5)   Extent and involvement of decontamination procedures.
   (B)   There are three levels of hazardous materials incident
classifications:
      (1)   Level I incidents.
         (a)   Spills, leaks, ruptures or fires involving hazardous materials
that can be contained, extinguished or abated utilizing equipment, supplies and
resources immediately available to the City Fire Department; or
         (b)   Hazardous material incidents that do not require evacuation of
civilians.
      (2)   Level II incidents. (The officer in charge of a Level I incident
may upgrade the incident to a Level II incident.)
         (a)   Hazardous materials incidents that can only be identified,
tested, sampled, contained, extinguished or abated utilizing the resources of
the City Fire Department’s special response unit; a hazardous materials
incidents that require the use of chemical-protective gear and specialized
equipment;
         (b)   Hazardous materials incidents that require evacuation of
civilians within the area of the City Fire Department; or
         (c)   Fires involving hazardous materials that are permitted to burn
for a controlled period of time or allowed to consume themselves.
      (3)   Level III incidents. (The officer in charge of a Level II incident
may upgrade the incident to a Level III incident.)
         (a)   Spills, leaks or ruptures that can be contained or abated
utilizing the highly specialized equipment and supplies available to
environmental or industrial response personnel;
         (b)   Fires involving hazardous materials that are allowed to burn due
to the ineffectiveness or dangers of the use of extinguishing agents or the
unavailability of water; and/or there is a real threat of larger container
failure; and/or an explosion, detonation, BLEVE or container failure has
occurred;
         (c)   Hazardous material incidents that require evacuation of
civilians extending across jurisdictional boundaries, and/or there are serious
civilian injuries or deaths as a result of the hazardous material incident;
         (d)   Hazardous material incidents requiring decontamination of
civilians or personnel; or
         (e)   Hazardous material incidents that have become one of multi-
agency involvement of large proportions.
(Prior Code, § 33.61) (Ord. 78, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 33.52 INCIDENT COMMAND AND SCENE MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Incident Commander (IC) shall be the designated Fire Department
officer responsible for mitigating the hazards at the scene of a hazardous
materials incident. Upon arrival, he or she shall secure and maintain immediate
control until the situation has been abated.
   (B)   The City Fire Department shall accept and provide the position of
Incident Commander for the scene of all hazardous materials incidents within
the city limits. The City Fire Department shall coordinate and direct within
its control all Fire Department activities within its jurisdiction, and
responsibility to include, but not be limited to, rescue, first aid, product
identification, scene stabilization and management, suppression activities,
protection of exposures, containment, agency notification, scene isolation,
personnel protection and decontamination.
   (C)   The Incident Commander shall employ overall management and
coordination of a hazardous materials incident. The Incident Commander shall be
responsible for the identification of the incident resources and needs, the
procurement of these resources, and the coordination of the resources, so as to
abate the incident and protect life, property and the environment.
(Prior Code, § 33.62) (Ord. 78, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 33.53 CONTROL ZONES.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Incident Commander shall be responsible for set-up
of four zones surrounding any hazardous materials incident.
   (B)   Cold zone. This zone shall include the command post. This zone shall
be of a safe distance from the hazardous materials incident but shall provide a
view of the incident if possible.
   (C)   Warm zone. The WARM ZONE shall be defined as an area where some
potential or real danger exists to the public or the environment.
Identification of the warm zone shall be done by the first arriving Fire
Department company officer. Access shall be limited to those members or
agencies on scene who are appropriately protected and directly engaged in
rescue, control and preliminary stabilization measures.
   (D)   Hot zone. The hot zone shall be designated as necessary to identify
and define an area of exceptional danger, including extreme threat to life
safety. Identification of the hot zone shall be done by the first arriving
company officer. This zone may be expanded at any time by the Incident
Commander. Access shall be controlled by the IC. Only personnel designated and
of necessity will be allowed access.
   (E)   Decontamination zone. The decontamination zone will be designated as
necessary to establish a procedure to decontaminate personnel, civilians and
equipment in an effort to reduce or stop the spread of suspected contaminants.
Identification and set up of the decontamination zone shall be the
responsibility of the IC. Access to the decontamination zone of contaminated
people shall be controlled by a Decontamination Officer. Only the
Decontamination Officer may allow anyone to exit the decontamination zone. All
workers in the decontamination zone shall be properly protected at all times.
(Prior Code, § 33.63) (Ord. 78, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 33.54 OPERATIONAL PLAN ACTIVATION.
   This plan will become operational when the City Fire Department receives
notification of any hazardous materials incident.
(Prior Code, § 33.64) (Ord. 78, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 33.55 IMMEDIATE ON-SCENE ACTIONS.
   (A)   Identification.
      (1)   The first Fire Department officer to arrive on the scene will
attempt to identify:
         (a)   The type of material involved;
         (b)   The quantity of material involved;
         (c)   The possibility of contamination; and
         (d)   The immediate exposure problem.
      (2)   This information shall be transmitted to dispatch immediately.
   (B)   Level I. If the Fire Department officer determines that the incident
is Level I, he or she will proceed to mitigate the problem.
   (C)   Level II or III.
      (1)   If the Fire Department officer determines that the incident is a
Level II or III, he or she shall take whatever action is necessary to control
the incident within the capability of his or her personnel, resources and
equipment.
      (2)   The Fire Department officer first on the scene will inform incoming
companies of his or her evaluation and the actions he or she is taking and
shall direct responding units on which access routes they should use when
approaching the incident.
      (3)   The first arriving officer shall initiate steps to identify and
establish the warm zone.
   (D)   Command post. The first arriving company officer shall establish a
command post in the most strategically desirable and safe location. A chief
officer shall assume command upon his or her arrival.
   (E)   Base. A base shall be established as necessary outside the anticipated
hazard area in a removed and safe location. This area and its resources will be
coordinated by assigned personnel. The base location is to be transmitted to
RPSCC as soon as possible, and all responding units dispatched to this incident
shall be directed to report to base.
   (F)   Communications. At the direction of the Incident Commander, all units
on the scene shall be directed to switch to fire F-2 radio channel. The IC
shall continue to monitor F-1.
   (G)   Incident stabilization. It shall be the responsibility of the IC to
identify the problem, to determine the possible course of action that could
happen as a result of this incident, and to record this information. The IC
shall evaluate this information, and will determine the best course of action
to take to mitigate the hazard. The IC may request that the incident be
upgraded to Level III.
   (H)   Evacuation. If evacuation is necessary the IC shall notify the
appropriate law enforcement agencies. The law enforcement agency having
jurisdiction, assisted by other appropriate agencies, shall plan and conduct an
orderly evacuation within a specified geographical area. Utilization of the
news media to assist in notifying the public of an evacuation will be the
responsibility of the IC.
   (I)   Clean-up and disposal.
      (1)   The primary responsibility for the assumption of all costs for the
clean-up and disposal of a chemical shall be:
         (a)   The person or persons whose negligent or willful act caused such
spill, release or potential spill or release of a hazardous material;
         (b)   The person or persons who own or had custody of the chemical or
hazardous material or waste at the time of the spill or release; and
         (c)   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of
container or transport vehicle that held such chemical or hazardous material or
waste.
      (2)   The Incident Commander shall identify the responsible party. When,
in the opinion of the IC, the substance must be cleaned up according to OSHA,
EPA or other governmental organization, the responsible party or its
representative shall call a reputable and licensed hazardous waste hauler for
clean-up disposal.
      (3)   The City Fire Department is authorized to clean-up or abate any
chemical, hazardous material or waste released or deposited upon or into any
property within the city, in the event the responsible party cannot be located
or identified, or refuses to cooperate.
      (4)   The persons described in division (I)(1) of this section shall be
liable to the city for all costs incurred as a result of response,
investigation, mitigation and clean-up of hazardous materials releases or
potential releases thereof. Payment for the above services must be received by
the city within 30 days. Payments made after 30 days shall incur a penalty of
5% per month.
      (5)   It shall not be the responsibility of the city to remove any
hazardous material. The Incident Commander shall remain on scene until arrival
of the appropriate and approved agency. The IC shall oversee the clean-up
operation in an advisory capacity to insure that removal of product and
containers are done so correctly and safely.
(Prior Code, § 33.65) (Ord. 78, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 33.56 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   In the event that the city ultimately must pay for clean-up and
removal of a hazardous material, the City Fire Department may pursue all
appropriate legal avenues to initiate action against the spiller to recover all
costs incurred.
   (B)   All supporting agencies shall assist the city in initiating action to
recover all cost incurred in the handling of the hazardous materials incident.
(Prior Code, § 33.66)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Adoption of state law relative to fire and police pension systems
   
34.02   Police regulations adopted by reference
   
34.03   Payment of police personnel for court appearances
   
34.04   Law Enforcement Foundation Program
Hiring Regulations
   
34.15   Introduction
   
34.16   Definitions
   
34.17   Authorization for hiring process; advertising requirement
   
34.18   Prerequisite qualifications and requirements of applicants for police
officer
   
34.19   Re-employment
   
34.20   Certified peace
   
34.21   Testing and evaluation procedures
   
34.22   Physical fitness evaluation
   
34.23   Written examination
   
34.24   Suitability screener, personal background investigation and polygraph
examination
   
34.25   Oral interview and evaluation
   
34.26   Education
   
34.27   Experience
   
34.28   Residence points
   
34.29   Military service
   
34.30   Eligibility list
   
34.31   Recommendation and selection
   
34.32   Medical examination and qualifications
Requirements During the Period Prior to Appointment as a Career Status Police
Officer
   
34.45   Agreement
   
34.46   Oath required
   
34.47   Orientation and processing of newly appointed police officers
   
34.48   Probationary appointment
   
34.49   Pay and compensation for newly employed police trainees and police
officers
   
34.50   Basic police training course required
   
34.51   Performance of duties during probationary period
   
34.52   Assignment of coach-adviser to probationary police officer
   
34.53   Employee evaluation reports (EER); effect on career status
   
34.54   Termination of employment during probationary period of employment
   
34.55   Career status appointment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW RELATIVE TO FIRE AND POLICE PENSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 79.080 are hereby included and incorporated into
the framework of the city’s pension system relating to members of the Police
and Fire Divisions of the city, which pension system is not regulated pursuant
to KRS 95.852.
   (B)   The following excerpt from KRS 79.080 is included herein: “Any plan
adopted shall provide that any officer or member of a paid Fire or Police
Department who has completed five years or more as a member of the Department,
but who is unable to perform his or her duties by reason of heart disease or
any disease of the lungs or respiratory tract, is presumed to have contracted
his or her disease while on active duty as a result of strain or the inhalation
of noxious fumes, poison or gases, and shall be retired by the Pension Board
under terms of the pension system of which he or she is a member, if the member
passed an entrance physical examination and was found to be in good health as
required.”
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 4-1971, passed 3-8-1971)
§ 34.02 POLICE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Rules and Regulations of the Police Department, Ashland, Kentucky, being
a document separate and apart from this section, is hereby adopted in full, by
reference, as an ordinance of the city, as fully to all intents and purposes as
if set out at length herein. A copy of the document entitled Rules and
Regulations of the Police Department, Ashland, Kentucky, and including
amendments from time to time, shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Human Resources Director, and shall be made available for reference at
all times during the regular office hours of that office.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 205, 2024, passed 12-12-2024; Ord. 11, 2015, passed
2-11-2025)
§ 34.03 PAYMENT OF POLICE PERSONNEL FOR COURT APPEARANCES.
   (A)   All personnel of the Police Department non-exempt shall hereafter be
compensated for off-duty appearances before any judicial body arising out of
their employment with the city, said judicial bodies to include Boyd Circuit
Court, Juvenile Court, Boyd District Court and in any other judicial
proceedings for which the employee was subpoenaed or summoned in the following
manner.
      (1)   If the appearance requires four hours or more, including travel
time, waiting time and actual appearance, said compensation shall be based upon
the hours actually incurred.
      (2)   If the appearance requires less than four hours, including travel
time, waiting time and actual appearance, said compensation shall be payment
for four hours.
      (3)   All payments shall be based on an hourly charge equivalent to the
salary schedule of the involved personnel.
      (4)   Certification of the time expended shall be made by said personnel
to the Chief of Police. Payment shall be made after approval by the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   This section shall not affect, in any manner, court appearances on
days upon which the personnel was regularly scheduled to work, and no
additional pay shall be received for court appearances on said on-duty days,
except that personnel attending judicial proceedings immediately prior to or
immediately after a regularly scheduled tour of duty shall be compensated for
that time only at the normal hourly overtime rate as prescribed by Kentucky
Revised Statutes. Such compensation shall not exceed the compensation method
described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 49-1997, passed 4-17-1997)
§ 34.04 LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city hereby declares its intention to continue to participate in
the Law Enforcement Foundation Program established by KRS 15.410 through 15.520
and 15.990, as amended (training incentive program).
   (B)   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners that all provisions
and requirements of KRS 15.410 through 15.520 and 15.990, as amended, and of
this section as amended from time to time, be employed as guidelines for the
implementation of the Law Enforcement Foundation Program, as defined herein.
   (C)   Each officer of the City Police Division shall be paid from city funds
an annual salary, based on a standard work year, as shall be determined from
time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Qualifications and training for police officers shall meet the
qualifications and training requirements of KRS 15.382, as certified by the
Kentucky Law Enforcement Council.
   (E)   No officer shall have his or her base salary reduced or be denied a
normal salary increase to which he or she is otherwise entitled because of the
salary incentive payments provided by the State Crime Commission under KRS
15.410 through 15.520.
   (F)   The Police Division and each officer thereof shall comply with all
provisions of law applicable to local police, including the transmission of
data to the Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics, as required by KRS
17.150. The Police Division and each officer thereof shall further comply with
all reasonable rules and regulations, appropriate to the size and location of
the local Police Division, issued by the State Crime Commission to facilitate
the administration of the Law Enforcement Foundation Fund and further the
purposes of KRS 15.410 through 15.520.
   (G)   The Chief of Police shall prepare or cause to be prepared any
quarterly and other reports as may be reasonably required by the State Crime
Commission to facilitate administration of the Law Enforcement Foundation Fund
and further the purposes of KRS 15.410 through 15.520.
   (H)   The Director of Finance shall deposit in an appropriate account, which
can be identified separately from all other sources, all monies received under
KRS 15.410 through 15.520. Forthwith upon receipt of any monies under KRS
15.410 through 15.520, the Director of Finance shall pay to each police officer
the full amount received on behalf of that officer, giving to each officer a
check stub or receipt on which the gross amount of monies paid to him or her
under KRS 15.410 through 15.520 is included and identified. All financial
records relating to monies received under KRS 15.410 through 15.520 shall be
retained for a period of three years and until the completion of an audit
approved by the State Crime Commission and the Federal Law Enforcement
Assistance Administration.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 12-1973, passed 4-3-1973; Ord. 28-1974, passed 7-
19-1974; Ord. 6-1975, passed 4-1-1975; Ord. 18-1977, passed 4-7-1977; Ord. 12-
1979, passed 3-15-1979; Ord. 37-1980, passed 4-17-1980; Ord. 30-1981, passed 4-
7-1981; Ord. 21-1982, passed 4-15-1982)
HIRING REGULATIONS
§ 34.15 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The procedures and requirements for recruitment, selection,
employment, training and evaluation of entry level police officers with the
rank of officer for the Department of Police (also referred to herein as the
“Police Department”) of the City of Ashland, Kentucky, shall be hereafter
prescribed in this subchapter or any future amending or superseding ordinance
thereto. Each officer of the Ashland Police Department shall be bound by the
requirements of this subchapter and shall be subject to the rules, regulations,
general orders and special orders of the Ashland Police Department.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the
“Comprehensive Hiring Ordinance for Police Officers for the Department of
Police of the City of Ashland”.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, those words, terms or phrases used
herein in the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender, and those
words, terms or phrases used herein in the feminine gender shall include the
masculine gender, except where the usage clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 34.20) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and §§
34.45 through
34.55, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAREER STATUS POLICE OFFICER. A police officer who has completed his or her
required probationary period of employment and has been approved as required by
this subchapter or amending or superseding ordinances and has been appointed to
career status pursuant to the terms of §
34.54.
   COACH-ADVISER. A career status police officer to whom a probationary police
officer is assigned for on the job training and guidance.
   DATE OF APPOINTMENT. The date upon which a probationary police officer
begins employment and takes the oath of office.
   DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE TRAINING (DOCJT). A Department of the
Kentucky Justice Cabinet as established by KRS 15A.020 and as amended, for the
purpose of providing training to police officers.
   DUTY SERGEANT. Any on-duty police sergeant assigned to a patrol team.
   FIELD OPERATIONS DIVISION COMMANDER. A police major assigned to command the
entire field operations division.
   KENTUCKY CERTIFIED PEACE OFFICER. A person that meets all legal requirements
for and is therefore entitled to the classification as a certified police
officer in the Commonwealth of Kentucky responsive of the stipulations of KRS
15.380 to 15.402.
   KENTUCKY LAW ENFORCEMENT COUNCIL (KLEC). An independent administrative body
of state government made up of the Attorney General, law enforcement department
heads throughout the Commonwealth of Kentucky, members of higher education and
a city manager or mayor, a member of the Kentucky State Bar Association and a
citizen of Kentucky not coming without the previous classifications. The
Council is vested with the powers to prescribe standards for law enforcement
training required under KRS 15.310 to 15.510 and KRS 15.990 to 15.992, along
with other functions.
   NON-CERTIFIED PEACE OFFICER APPLICANTS. A person that has made application
to the City of Ashland for employment as a police officer that is not a
Kentucky certified peace officer as defined under KRS 15.380 to 15.404.
   POINT VALUE. Numerical value of ratings assigned for completion of certain
sections of this subchapter, which describe the selection process.
   POLICE OFFICER TRAINING COORDINATOR. A command officer that has been charged
with coordinating schedules, activities and plans associated for on the job
training and guidance.
   POLICE TRAINEE. This is a non-sworn, training-level classification in the
city’s police service. Incumbents are hired from an entry-level eligibility
list and are sent to the Department of Criminal Justice Training (DOCJT) for
basic police academy training. During training, incumbents do not have police
powers and are subject to the rules and regulations of the City of Ashland, the
Ashland Police Department, and the DOCJT. Advancement to a sworn probationary
police officer position is contingent upon successful completion of the basic
training academy and the final review of the Police Chief. Upon approval, the
officer(s) will begin a one-year probationary period.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. A period of one year beginning on date of appointment
as a probationary police officer and ending on first anniversary date as
probationary police officer.
   PROBATIONARY POLICE OFFICER. A police officer who has not reached the first
anniversary from his or her date of appointment as a probationary police
officer.
   RESIDENCE. That place where a person has his or her true, fixed and
permanent home and principal establishment, and to which whenever he or she is
absent, he or she has the intention of returning. This residence shall
determine where a person may exercise the privilege of voting and other legal
rights and privileges.
   SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER-CONTRACT RETIREE. This is a police practitioner
class responsible for the provision of a broad range of law enforcement
services to protect individual rights, preserve the peace, prevent and suppress
crime, protect life and property, identify and apprehend criminal offenders and
enforce regulatory measures in the Ashland Independent Schools System. This
position is through a contractual agreement to supply officers to the school
system as required by law. The separated officers by contract are not covered
by the city collective bargaining agreement but are to follow the city rules
and regulations, Ashland Police Department rules and regulations and Ashland
Police Department general orders along with federal and Commonwealth of
Kentucky laws. Officers of the department covered under the city collective
bargaining agreement are not in this class or eligible for the position.
   TEAM COMMANDER. A police lieutenant assigned to a group of personnel for the
purpose of accomplishing the police duties required of that group during a tour
of duty.
(Prior Code, § 34.21) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.17 AUTHORIZATION FOR HIRING PROCESS; ADVERTISING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Chief of Police that there is a need to
begin an employment process and the eligibility list (§
34.30) has expired or contains no additional qualified applicants, the City
Manager shall authorize and require the Human Resources Director to make public
by appropriate advertising the intent of the city to employ such personnel. The
Chief of Police can recommend a hiring process for certified Kentucky peace
officers only or non-certified applicants or both for processing. Basic
prerequisite qualifications for police officer and the location where
applications may be obtained will be advertised in an open and constant
application process without a closing date for receiving completed
applications. When an application process is needed, the Chief of Police will
submit for filling positions from applications that are currently on file in
the Human Resources Department. The open and constant application process will
be advertised periodically to remind any potential candidates that applications
are being taken constantly.
   (B)   The city is an equal opportunity employer without regard to race,
color, religion, ethnicity, gender, age, national origin, disability or status
as a Vietnam era veteran.
   (C)   The requirement for any documents to be attached to or presented with
the completed application shall be noted thereon.
(Prior Code, § 34.22) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.18 PREREQUISITE QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICANTS FOR POLICE
OFFICER.
   Prior to a conditional offer of employment for the position of police
officer, each applicant must meet the following prerequisite requirements. The
applicant must:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   By the date of submission of the application be 20 years of age per
KRS 15.382 and provide a copy of the birth certificate with application and be
21 years of age before graduating the Department of Criminal Justice Training
Academy. If an applicant is from another state that has received reciprocity,
and was certified prior to 21 years of age when the same parameters apply until
the needed training has been completed and the applicant is then Kentucky
certified as a peace officer. The certification will not be valid until the
applicant reaches the age of 21 years of age;
   (C)   Be a high school graduate or must have earned a general educational
development (GED) diploma for high school level and provide a copy of high
school/GED diploma with application. Documentation of home schooling will have
to be approved through the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council (KLEC). The KLEC
has identified educational processes and institutions they recognize for
satisfying the high school diploma requirement;
   (D)   If a veteran of any branch of the armed forces of the United States
present with his or her application a copy of official documentation, or his or
her DD214, official discharge, showing the reason for his or her discharge. The
applicant shall not have received a dishonorable discharge, bad conduct
discharge or general discharge under other than honorable conditions;
   (E)   Have any other qualifications as may be prescribed by the Constitution
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Kentucky Statutes, K.L.E.C. Peace Officer
Professional Standards (POPS) or ordinances of the city;
   (F)   Be an orderly, law-abiding citizen of the United States with no prior
felony conviction(s); or convictions of domestic violence and is not prohibited
by federal or state law from possessing a firearm;
   (G)   Not have had certification as a peace officer revoked in Kentucky or
any other state;
   (H)   Be a person of sobriety and integrity, and of sound mind and body;
   (I)   Be willing to undergo and successfully complete thorough physical
agility tests;
   (J)   Be willing to complete a KLEC psychological suitability screener
examination, and any additional psychological examination performed by a
licensed psychologist;
   (K)   Be willing to be fingerprinted and undergo and successfully complete
thorough personal background investigation;
   (L)   After a conditional offer of employment be willing to submit to and
successfully complete polygraph testing;
   (M)   Provide a truthful statement certifying he or she has not used illicit
drugs for the past 36 months;
   (N)   As a pre-condition to employment and a condition to continued
employment, execute a waiver to submit to random testing for illicit drugs to
remain in force as long as employed by the Ashland Police Department;
   (O)   As a condition to continued employment, be willing to undergo
polygraph examination when given a lawful order to do so by an APD command
officer during the course of any departmental investigation;
   (P)   After a conditional offer of employment be willing to undergo and
successfully complete thorough medical examination;
   (Q)   Possess a valid license to operate a motor vehicle and provide a copy
of the driver’s license with the application;
   (R)   Be willing to submit to a yearly medical examination;
   (S)   Be willing to execute a repayment agreement for continued employment
with the APD for a minimum of 36 months; and effective June 29, 2023 any new
peace officer employed will execute a repayment agreement contract for the
length of 60 months (five years) as pursuant to KRS 70.290;
   (T)   Be willing to attend the DOCJT basic training academy in Richmond,
Kentucky; and
   (U)   Be free from tattoos or body piercing that will be visible while in
any departmentally issued uniform. Body piercing does not include the piercing
of the ear lobe. Officers with visible tattoos in any departmentally issued
uniform prior to August 1, 2007, shall not be required to remove the existing
tattoo, but shall not add to the tattoo or receive any additional tattoos that
would be visible in any departmentally issued uniform. Effective February 1,
2022 any tattoos, body piercing and all forms of body art will be covered as
specified but will be governed by the Chief of Police through a general order
of the Ashland Police Department. The Chief of Police will govern the policy
and adjust under his or her discretion.
(Prior Code, § 34.23) (Ord. 174. 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.19 RE-EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to allow the city to re-employ trained
qualified personnel to the ranks of the Police Department under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Applicant left city service in good standing;
      (2)   Applicant was employed for at least one year;
      (3)   Applicant meets all current employment requirements;
      (4)   Be willing to execute a repayment agreement for continued
employment with the Ashland Police Department for 60 months, pursuant to KRS
70.290;
      (5)   Re-employment has the recommendation of the City Manager, and
approval of the Board of Commissioners;
      (6)   Possess a valid license to operate a motor vehicle;
      (7)   Fingerprinted for a criminal background check;
      (8)   No prohibition on firearm possession federal or state;
      (9)   Has received and read the Kentucky Law Enforcement Officer’s Code
of Ethics;
      (10)   Interviewed by the employing agency;
      (11)   Not have certification as a peace officer permanently revoked in
another state;
      (12)   Chief of Police has communicated with head of law enforcement
agency that most recently employed the officer to determine whether he or she
left that agency due to reasons relating to unfavorable employment;
      (13)   For the purposes of the School Resource Officer contract positions
and not covered by the collective bargaining agreement, an officer retired in
good standing from a Kentucky agency and their certification for peace officer
is in good standing considering work history, training, and determination by
the Chief of Police as an acceptable candidate; and
      (14)   Retirement positions whether School Resource Officer or back to
full duty will be required to possible enter into contracts with the Ashland
Independent School District, Kentucky Public Pension Authority and the like.
   (B)   Applicants meeting the aforestated conditions will be required to
complete those steps in the testing and evaluation procedures determined by the
City Manager to be necessary and appropriate in each particular circumstance
based on previous employment history and other pertinent personal information.
   (C)   Applicants that are retired from the city’s Police Department and are
also recommended for rehire are allowable. If rehired, guidelines established
in KRS 95.022 will be followed. The law restricts the number of retired
officers within the agency. A contractual agreement (Addendum A) will be
required by all officers pertaining to KRS 95.022 which will be updated yearly.
(Prior Code, § 34.24) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.20 CERTIFIED PEACE OFFICER.
   The city may employ any applicant who is a certified peace officer, pursuant
to KRS 15.380 to 15.404. Such applicant must provide the city a copy of the
Peace Officer Professional Standards Certification issued by the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Council with the application. Certified peace officer applicants
will be evaluated through the hiring procedure as outlined in §
34.21 prior to processing all non-certified applicants.
(Prior Code, § 34.25) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.21 TESTING AND EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following steps will be used in the testing and hiring procedure
unless provided otherwise under §§
34.19 or
34.20:
      (1)   Applications;
      (2)   Physical fitness evaluation (certified peace officers excluded from
this process);
      (3)   Written examination (certified peace officers excluded from this
process);
      (4)   Submit to the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council Peace Officer
Employment Status and Standing Request pursuant to obtain peace officer
certification status, and whether the officer/former officer is in good
standing or being considered for revocation under KRS 15.391. The response to
this request will be provided in accordance with KRS 15.405 (in-state) and KRS
15.406 (out-of-state);
      (5)   Suitability screening;
      (6)   Background investigation (continues throughout the process);
      (7)   Oral interview and evaluation;
      (8)   Experience;
      (9)   Education;
      (10)   Residency;
      (11)   Military service;
      (12)   Eligibility list;
      (13)   Recommendation by Chief of Police to City Manager for a
conditional offer of employment - pending satisfactory results of remaining
procedures;
      (14)   Polygraph;
      (15)   Medical exam; and
      (16)   Psychological evaluation.
   (B)   *NOTE - The order in which the procedures are performed above the
conditional offer of employment is subject to administrative change.
(Prior Code, § 34.26) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.22 PHYSICAL FITNESS EVALUATION.
   (A)   Physical fitness evaluation. Consistent with the implementation of the
Peace Officer Professional Standards Act, KRS 15.380 to 15.404, enacted by 1998
Ky. Acts Chapter 606, all applicants for the position of police officer shall
be required to pass a battery of physical fitness tests.
      (1)   Applicants will be required to complete a battery of tests,
consisting of a one and one- half-mile run, 300-meter run, maximum push up, one
repetition maximum bench press and one-minute sit-up.
      (2)   Applicants may be required to have a medical examination to
determine if they can safely participate in the physical agility testing. All
applicants must have Kentucky Law Enforcement Council Medical Release Form(s)
and signed by a physician if required.
      (3)   In response to legislation enacted by the 1998 Kentucky General
Assembly, KRS 15.382, the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council and the Kentucky
Department of Criminal Justice Training, established physical training
standards for pre-selection screening of peace officer applicants. The
Department conducted a validation study to determine which areas of physical
fitness are necessary to perform the job of a Kentucky peace officer, and the
level of fitness necessary to perform the essential functions of basic
training. Currently, the test battery consists of five items. Dr. Bryant
Stamford and Dr. Robert Moffatt completed the present study in the summer of
2009. This new approach employs an “overall” scoring scheme which allows a
lower score on one test item to be compensated by a higher score on another
test item.
      (4)   The evaluation is for the purpose of demonstrating physical skills
necessary to perform essential job functions and to determine as accurately as
possible the ability of the applicant to cope with the extreme physical stress
of a police officer. The evaluation shall be conducted and supervised by KLEC
staff and monitored by designee(s) of the Chief of Police. The officer
designated to perform background investigations shall express a written opinion
to the Chief of Police as to each applicant’s ability to perform physical tasks
relative to real tasks performed on the job.
      (5)   Each applicant shall receive a copy of the evaluation format a
reasonable amount of time prior to the evaluation.
   (B)   Physical fitness. Physical fitness means having the physical readiness
to perform the strenuous and critical tasks of the job. The physical fitness
areas that have been determined to be the underlying factors for an officer’s
capability to do the job consist of five specific and different areas.
      (1)   Aerobic power or cardiovascular endurance. This is having an
efficient heart and cardiovascular system so that an officer can perform
physical tasks over a sustained period of time. It is an important area for
performing job tasks such as making foot pursuits and long-term use of force
situations.
      (2)   Anaerobic power. This is having the ability to make short intense
bursts of effort. This is an important area for performing job tasks such as
short sprint pursuit situations.
      (3)   Upper body absolute strength. This is having the upper body
strength to make maximal efforts against a resistance. This is important for
performing physical tasks that require lifting, carrying and pushing.
      (4)   Upper body muscular endurance. This is having the capability to
make repeated muscular contractions with the upper body without getting
fatigued. This is important for much use of force job tasks.
      (5)   Trunk or abdominal muscular endurance. This is having the
capability to make repeated muscular contractions with the abdominal area
without getting fatigued. The abdomen is the fulcrum of the body and is
important in many tasks involving lifting, pulling and dragging.
   (C)   Measurement.
      (1)   Physical fitness will be measured during the performance of five
physical fitness tests that will be given in three hours in one day.
         (a)   One and one half-mile run. This measures aerobic power or
cardiovascular endurance (the ability to have stamina over time). This test
consists of running/walking, as fast as possible, the distance of one and one-
half miles.
         (b)   Three hundred meter run. This measures aerobic power or the
ability to make an intense burst of effort for a short time period or distance.
This test consists of sprinting 300 meters as fast as possible.
         (c)   One repetition maximum (rm) bench-press. This measures the
absolute strength of the upper body. The candidate lies on a bench and pushes
up as much weight as possible one time.
         (d)   Maximum push up test. This measures the muscular endurance of
the upper body. The candidate executes as many push-ups as possible from the
front, lean and rest position with no time limit.
         (e)   One minute sit up test. This measures the abdominal or trunk
muscular endurance. While lying on the ground, the candidate executes in one
minute as many bent leg sit ups as possible.
      (2)   The procedure and order for testing will be as follows. Five
physical fitness tests will be given in three hours, in the following order:
         (a)   Bench press (percent of body weight – conversion);
         (b)   Sit up test (one minute time limit);
         (c)   Three hundred meter run;
         (d)   Push up test (two-minute time limit); and
         (e)   One and one-half mile run.
      (3)   The following chart is used to determine the points earned for each
event. In order to meet the state standard, an overall minimum of 50 points
must be achieved. Failure to meet the overall minimum requirement constitutes a
failure for the test battery.
      (4)   Physical performance points distribution:
 
Event                       9 pts. 9.5 pts. 10 pts. 10.5 pts. 11 pts.
Bench press (% body weight) 55.3%  59.7%    64%     68.5%     73%
Sit ups (repetitions)       13     16       18      —       18
300-meter run (seconds)     68     67       65      —       65
Push-ups (repetitions)      14     17       20      23        25
1.5 mile run (min:sec)      17:56  17:54    17:12   16:44     16:15
   Rating Point Value: A total of 55 points possible
 
   (D)   Annual medical examination.
      (1)   Effective July 1, 1994, sworn officers of the Department shall
receive a comprehensive yearly medical examination at no cost to the officer.
This examination will be provided by a physician selected by the city.
Participation in this program for officers hired prior to July 1, 1994, is
voluntary.
      (2)   Each sworn officer employed after July 1, 1994, is required to
participate in the yearly medical examination. Results of the individual
medical examinations are confidential and will not be reported to the city.
Medical concerns identified by the physician will be referred to the officer
for follow-up with his or her personal physician.
(Prior Code, § 34.27) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.23 WRITTEN EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the closing date for receiving
applications, applicants who have returned applications in a timely manner with
all required documentation attached and who meet the prerequisite requirements
of §
34.18, shall be administered a written examination to determine the ability of
each applicant for the position to be filled, covering, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Knowledge of and ability to read, write and understand the English
language;
      (2)   Ability to observe and recall information, facts and
characteristics relevant to the duties of the position applied for;
      (3)   Ability to understand and follow directions correctly; and
      (4)   General comprehension and knowledge.
   (B)   Passing grade for such written examination shall be minimum score of
70%. The point values of indicated ratings for the written examination shall be
35 points for a score of 70, 35.5 for a score of 71, continuing up to and
including 100% with the highest possible score being 50 points:
 
Percentile  100 99   98  71   70
Point value 50  49.5 49  35.5 35
 
(Prior Code, § 34.28) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.24 SUITABILITY SCREENER, PERSONAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION AND POLYGRAPH
EXAMINATION.
   If not disqualified by reason of any required prior examination and
evaluation, the applicant shall be subject to a suitability screener and
polygraph examination conducted by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council; and a
comprehensive personal background investigation which shall be conducted by the
Chief of Police or his or her appointed agent.
   (A)   Suitability screener.
      (1)   If not disqualified by reason of any required prior examination and
evaluation, the applicant shall submit to suitability screening consistent with
the Peace Officer Professional Standards Act, KRS 15.380 to 15.404, enacted by
1998 Ky. Acts Chapter 606. This screening measures a broad spectrum of
abilities, personal characteristics and related constructs such as integrity,
conscientiousness and vocational preference, which are relevant to job related
duties. Overall, the test is designed to provide additional screening
information to agency executives about an applicant’s suitability or
unsuitability to become a Kentucky peace officer.
      (2)   Applicant will be provided with web address and a password and
shall completely fill out the on-line personal history questionnaire (PHQ).
Upon completing the PHQ, the applicant will print one copy for his or her file,
one copy for the KLEC and one copy for the Ashland Police Department. The
applicant shall hand-carry the copy for the KLEC and the copy for the Ashland
Police Department to the test site on the day of the suitability screening
test. Information provided on this form should be current, not exceeding 60
days from the date of the applicant’s signature. The applicant shall also
submit a legitimate form of photo I.D. when reporting for the suitability
screener.
      (3)   There is no time limit for completing the suitability screener.
Usually the test takes anywhere from two and one-half to five hours to
complete. So as not to feel rushed, the applicant is instructed not to schedule
other activities on the day of the testing that would interfere with time
required to complete the suitability screener.
      (4)   Each applicant’s completed suitability screening test is mailed to
Law Enforcement Services, Incorporated (LESI) for review and analysis. The
suitability report addresses findings in three performance rating areas:
intellectual ability; vocational preference and background; and personality and
psychological adjustment. At the end of the report is a final statement
indicating the suitability or unsuitability of the applicant to become a
Kentucky peace officer. If applicant is considered unsuitable, he or she will
no longer be considered for the position.
   (B)   Psychological evaluation. Appointment to police trainee or
probationary police officer for a certified officer is made contingent upon the
candidate successfully passing the suitability screener administered by the
KLEC. This testing uses procedures that are valid, constructive and
nondiscriminatory. Candidates will also be screened by a qualified professional
psychologist or psychiatrist who will provide a report to the Chief of Police
on the candidate’s fitness for duty.
   (C)   Personal background investigation.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or his or her appointed agent shall contact
references indicated on the application and on the PHQ and personal evaluations
of the applicant shall be noted by the Chief of Police or his or her appointed
agent.
      (2)   Further investigation shall be made relating to the applicant’s:
         (a)   Educational background;
         (b)   Past employment history;
         (c)   Personal background as such relates to the position applied for;
         (d)   Credit standing;
         (e)   Criminal records; and
         (f)   Any other relative information discovered during the course of
investigation or which might relate to the applicant’s qualification for the
position applied for.
      (3)   Such investigation shall be continued until all elements of the
personal background investigation have been verified or disproved. The Chief of
Police or his or her appointed agent shall prepare a written record of all
findings which shall be reviewed and evaluated. The Chief of Police shall make
a recommendation to the City Manager as to the applicant’s fitness for the
position applied for.
   (D)   Polygraph. Consistent with the implementation of the Peace Officer
Professional Standards and Certification Act, each applicant shall be required
to complete a polygraph examination which shall be conducted by a polygraph
examiner provided by the KLEC. The polygraph examiner will prepare a report to
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 34.29) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.25 ORAL INTERVIEW AND EVALUATION.
   (A)   Upon having satisfactorily met requirements prior to the oral
interview as set forth in this subchapter, the applicant shall meet with the
Chief of Police or his or her designee, the Human Resources Director or his or
her designee, and a career status police officer for the purpose of submitting
to an oral interview in order that those conducting the interview may better
ascertain the applicant’s qualification for the position of police officer and
of the applicant’s probability of completing all training established by the
Kentucky Justice Cabinet, DOCJT and the applicant’s probationary period of
employment.
   (B)   Persons conducting the interviews of applicants shall have at their
disposal the results of all investigations, PHQ, employment application and
documents attached thereto. The officer conducting the background investigation
shall be present during the oral interview and evaluation. The interview allows
a maximum of 30 points. There is no minimum; however, each interviewer shall
mark candidates as acceptable or not acceptable. The City Manager may review
the interview sheets of candidates marked not acceptable by a majority of the
interviewers. Unless the City Manager overrules the not acceptable
recommendations for just cause, no such candidate shall be recommended for
hire. A copy of the interview sheet is attached to Ordinance 174, 2022.
(Prior Code, § 34.30) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.26 EDUCATION.
   The Police Chief, or the City Manager, together with the Human Resources
Director shall assign points after a comparison with the educational
requirements of the job description. Minimum requirement is six points.
 
Qualifications                     Points
Generally meets requirements       6 (minimum required)
Meets most requirements            7
Meets all requirements             8
Exceeds requirements (job related) 9
Greatly exceeds (job related)      10
 
(Prior Code, § 34.31) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.27 EXPERIENCE.
   The Police Chief, or the City Manager, together with the Human Resources
Director shall assign points after comparing experience with the job
description. Minimum requirement is six points.
 
Qualifications                     Points
Generally meets requirements       6 (minimum required)
Meets most requirements            7
Meets all requirements             8
Exceeds requirements (job related) 9
Greatly exceeds (job related)      10
 
(Prior Code, § 34.32) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.28 RESIDENCE POINTS.
   (A)   Any candidate who is an Ashland resident, or an immediately previous
resident who is a full time out of town student or member of the U.S. military,
shall receive five points. There are no points for county, region or state
residency.
   (B)   The Police Chief, or the City Manager, together with the Human
Resources Director shall assign points.
(Prior Code, § 34.33) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.29 MILITARY SERVICE.
   (A)   Five points shall be added to the total score for each candidate who
has served a minimum of two years in any branch of the U. S. military and
received an honorable discharge.
   (B)   The Police Chief, or the City Manager, together with the Human
Resources Director shall assign points.
(Prior Code, § 34.34) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.30 ELIGIBILITY LIST.
   (A)   Based upon total scores for all phases of the employment process
described herein, applicants shall be placed upon an eligibility list in the
order of highest point value earned to lowest point value earned. The Chief of
Police may interview the top three applicants on the eligibility list, or may
elect to review the information for each of the top three applicants, and
recommend one of the applicants for employment to the City Manager, who may
recommend the applicant to the Board of City Commissioners. The Chief of Police
shall have access to all employment information for use during the interview.
   (B)   The eligibility list shall remain effective until the Peace Officers
Professional Standards Testing (POPS) results have expired or until the City
Manager, in his or her discretion, determines that a new hiring list should be
created, whichever is shorter. Thereupon, a new application process begins.
Qualified applicants listed on the eligibility list shall be recommended for
employment from time-to-time in the same manner as described above, as
vacancies occur in the Ashland Police Department. Notices to applicants placed
on the eligibility list shall advise them of establishment of the eligibility
list and that the list may remain in force until the testing results are no
longer in force. To qualify for the eligibility list, the applicant shall agree
to affirmatively notify the city of any change of circumstances, personal
information or facts stated on the application. The name of an applicant shall
be removed from the eligibility list after appointment to a position, or after
refusing an appointment to a position, or after it becomes known that an
applicant has engaged in fraud or made a misstatement of material fact on the
application, PHQ or other pre-employment document, or after the list has
expired, or after the City Manager determines a new list be created.
Departmental seniority shall be determined first by date of appointment and
then by total point score in the employment process.
   (C)   During the period the roster remains in effect, candidates that are
given employment and who are awaiting basic training may be required to retest
certain phases of the Peace Officers Professional Standards as some tests
expire one year after the original test date. The Chief of Police will
determine if any test(s) require an update prior to making a final employment
recommendation to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 34.35) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.31 RECOMMENDATION AND SELECTION.
   Upon receipt of the Chief of Police’s recommendation provided in §
34.30, the City Manager may, in his or her discretion, extend a conditional
offer of employment as a police trainee officer or probationary police officer
(s). Upon acceptance of a conditional offer of employment, the applicant(s)
must then submit to a polygraph examination, comprehensive medical examination
as written in §
34.32, and a psychological evaluation. If the applicant(s) successfully
completes the required polygraph, medical and psychological examinations, he or
she shall proceed to the next step in the probationary process. If the
applicant given a conditional offer of employment does not successfully
complete the polygraph examination, comprehensive medical examination and/or
psychological examination, the conditional offer of employment shall be
withdrawn and the applicant(s) shall no longer be considered for employment.
The Chief of Police shall select from the next three applicant(s) on the
eligibility list and recommend one of the applicants for employment to the City
Manager, who may extend a conditional offer of employment if he or she deems it
appropriate to do so. This process shall continue until an applicant has met
all requirements for employment, the eligibility list has been depleted or has
expired, or a decision is made not to fill the position. When an applicant who
has received a conditional offer of employment has successfully completed the
polygraph examination, comprehensive medical examination and psychological
examination, and all other requirements for the position, his or her
conditional offer of employment shall be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners for its consideration of an offer of employment as a police
trainee or probationary officer.
(Prior Code, § 34.36) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.32 MEDICAL EXAMINATION AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   If not disqualified by reason of any prior required examination and
evaluation, each applicant shall submit to a medical examination by a qualified
physician selected by the city who shall evaluate the applicant’s medical
history to determine the applicant’s ability to perform essential job functions
for the position of police officer.
   (B)   The required medical pre-placement examination will include a medical
history, complete physical examination, and will include, but is not limited
to, the following tests:
      (1)   Chest x-ray;
      (2)   Electrocardiogram;
      (3)   Audiometric exam;
      (4)   Pulmonary function studies;
      (5)   Visual acuity testing;
      (6)   CBC, blood chemistry profile and HIV testing;
      (7)   TB skin unless history of previous positive testing; and
      (8)   Urine drug screen testing for:
         (a)   Marijuana;
         (b)   Barbiturates;
         (c)   Amphetamines;
         (d)   Benzodiazepines;
         (e)   Cocaine;
         (f)   Propoxyphene;
         (g)   Opiates;
         (h)   Methadone;
         (i)   Phencyclidine;
         (j)   Oxycodone; and
         (k)   Methaqualone.
   (C)   The findings of the medical history/physical examination, and the
preceding listed tests, should be compatible with performance of the mental and
physical demands as listed in the job description and meeting standards as
established by KLEC and POPS Medical Screening. The KLEC/POPS Medical Screening
Guidelines Implementation Manual is attached to Ordinance 174, 2022 as Addendum
C.
   (D)   Conditions which are of questionable etiology are to be referred to
the employee’s personal physician for further evaluation prior to any medical
clearance being issued. The results and diagnosis from an employee’s personal
physician may be utilized in determining the fitness for placement.
   (E)   Placement of any employee whose condition or history indicates other
than normal health should not put the employee, fellow workers or the public at
any increased risk of injury or health detriment.
   (F)   The examiner shall express his or her opinion in writing as to whether
or not the applicant is physically fit for duty as a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 34.37) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
REQUIREMENTS DURING THE PERIOD PRIOR TO APPOINTMENT AS A CAREER STATUS POLICE
OFFICER
§ 34.45 AGREEMENT.
   A newly hired police trainee/probationary police officer shall agree to and
sign the attached repayment agreement. See Addendum B attached to Ord. 174,
2022.
(Prior Code, § 34.50) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.46 OATH REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon graduation from the Department of Criminal Justice Training’s
Basic Training Academy and prior to performing the duties as a police officer,
police recruits shall be administered the statutory oath of office by a person
authorized to administer such oaths.
   (B)   Any recruit that currently holds a valid peace officers professional
standards certification and is employed by the city as a police officer, prior
to commencement of such duties, shall be administered the statutory oath of
office by a person authorized to administer such oaths.
(Prior Code, § 34.51) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.47 ORIENTATION AND PROCESSING OF NEWLY APPOINTED POLICE OFFICERS.
   Newly appointed members of the Department of Police shall report to the
Chief of Police, at the Chief’s request, for orientation and processing.
Orientation and processing shall include an offer for each new member to
receive the series of inoculations protecting him or her from the hepatitis B
virus (HBV) and DOCJT mandatory online training. Each member electing to
receive the vaccinations shall begin the series of vaccinations prior to
departure to basic police training with subsequent vaccinations as scheduled by
the Boyd County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 34.52) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.48 PROBATIONARY APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Each newly appointed member shall enter city service as either a
police trainee or a probationary police officer and shall serve as such for the
probationary period of one year, as hereinafter prescribed, with all pay,
benefits and allowances pertinent thereto. The one year probationary period
begins at the time the trainee is sworn in as a probationary police officer.
   (B)   Each police officer shall perform, to the best of his or her ability,
all assigned duties and shall be subject to the same disciplinary measures as
every other member of the Ashland Police Department, including, but not limited
to, written or oral reprimand, suspension, and termination of employment as
provided in §
34.53.
(Prior Code, § 34.53) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.49 PAY AND COMPENSATION FOR NEWLY EMPLOYED POLICE TRAINEES AND POLICE
OFFICERS.
   (A)   Entry level compensation rate of non-certified police trainees and
continuing rates of pay will follow Article 20 of the most current collective
bargaining agreement between the City of Ashland and the Fraternal Order of
Police Lodge #3.
   (B)   Newly hired Kentucky certified police officers will be given credit
for their experience as hereinafter set forth. The Chief of Police will
evaluate initial experience qualifications for external candidates and
recommend starting placement into the current classification/compensation
structure. The graduation date will be used to calculate the years of service.
Graduates from KLEC approved academies (DOCJT, Kentucky State Police, Lexington
Police Department, Louisville Metro Police Department or Bowling Green Police
Department) with consecutive non-interrupted years of experience immediately
following appointment as a Kentucky certified police officer shall be credited
for all such years of experience for purposes of placement into the pay chart
set forth in the most current City of Ashland/Fraternal Order of Police Lodge
No. 3 collective bargaining agreement. The Chief of Police will evaluate the
continuous service records and assign the years of continuous service with
which the newly hired certified officer shall be credited on the Personnel
Action Request Form (PAR) and shall include therein proper documentation of
service and the reasoning for the years of service assigned.
   (C)   New hired Kentucky certified police officers whose law enforcement
service includes a period of a lapse of one year or more from continuous
employment in law enforcement as a Kentucky certified police officer shall not
be credited for any of such service and shall be assigned an entry-level pay
rate as set forth in the most recent City of Ashland/Fraternal Order of Police
Lodge No. 3 collective bargaining agreement.
   (D)   The effective date of the method of determination of the years of
continuous service to which newly hired Kentucky certified police officers are
entitled pursuant to the above-stated criteria shall be August 19, 2019.
Nothing contained herein shall apply to any officer hired prior to August 19,
2019.
   (E)   A police/peace officer certified under the laws of another state will
not be considered a Kentucky certified police officer for purposes of this
section and must complete the entire hiring process. Credit may be given by the
Kentucky Law Enforcement Council towards basic training requirements based upon
out of state certifications, but the candidate must complete all basic training
requirements in Kentucky before becoming a Kentucky certified police officer.
With respect to such officers, the Chief of Police will prepare the Personnel
Action Request Form (PAR) and assign such officer’s rate of pay at the entry
level pay on the chart as set forth in the most recent City of Ashland/
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge No. 3 collective bargaining agreement.
   (F)   Retired Kentucky certified police officers eligible for employment and
retired Ashland police officers eligible for re-employment shall be given
credit for their experience equal to their years of service as a Kentucky
certified police officer at the time of their retirement for purposes of
placement into the pay chart set forth in the most recent City of Ashland/
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge No. 3 collective bargaining agreement,
irrespective of the length of time retired, and shall, if employed,
additionally comply with all requirements of KRS 95.022.
(Prior Code, § 34.54) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.50 BASIC POLICE TRAINING COURSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each police trainee shall attend and successfully complete the course
of instruction designed as a basic police training course and taught by the
Kentucky Justice Cabinet, DOCJT, within one year of the date of appointment
pursuant to KRS 95.955. There shall be no expense to such member for the course
of instruction.
   (B)   Failure to successfully complete training by the following shall
result in termination of employment of such member:
      (1)   Failing a test and re-test;
      (2)   Failing to successfully complete the comprehensive examination at
the conclusion of basic training; or
      (3)   Failing to adhere to Department of Criminal Justice Training rules
and regulations, codes of conduct and any disciplinary action resulting in the
trainee not being able to complete the basic training course; and
      (4)   Failing to meet entry or exit level physical fitness standards.
(Prior Code, § 34.55) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.51 PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES DURING PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   Each probationary employee shall perform his or her duties in the
presence of a career status police officer who shall be assigned by the Chief
of Police as his or her coach-adviser for the duration of such police officer’s
field training period.
   (B)   Thereafter, during the final months of his or her probationary period
of employment, such probationary police officer may perform all duties inherent
to the rank of career status police officer under the guidance of, but not
necessarily in the presence of, his or her coach adviser.
(Prior Code, § 34.56) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.52 ASSIGNMENT OF COACH-ADVISER TO PROBATIONARY POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   A coach-adviser of the rank of career status police officer shall be
assigned to each probationary police officer, which includes both Kentucky
certified officers and new graduates of the Department of Criminal Justice
Training Basic Training Academy. The coach-adviser shall instruct, demonstrate
and assist the probationary police officer to whom he or she is assigned in all
aspects of related duties including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Familiarization with the rules and regulations, report systems,
general orders and directives;
      (2)   Use and care of city equipment, including vehicles;
      (3)   Proper use and care of personal equipment and uniforms;
      (4)   Departmental procedures;
      (5)   Conduct, on and off duty;
      (6)   Pro-active patrol;
      (7)   Arrest, court and radio procedures;
      (8)   Driving and investigation techniques;
      (9)   Traffic control and procedure;
      (10)   Vice control;
      (11)   Juvenile laws and procedures; and
      (12)   Citizen complaints.
   (B)   Such coach-adviser shall file with the probationary police officer’s
team commander progress and evaluation reports, in writing, on forms provided,
which will assist the team commander in evaluating the probationary member for
final release to regular assignments. The police officer training coordinator
shall file periodic evaluation reports of the probationary member with the
Field Operations Division Commander, who shall advise the Chief of Police of
the probationary member’s progress.
(Prior Code, § 34.57) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.53 EMPLOYEE EVALUATION REPORTS (EER); EFFECT ON CAREER STATUS.
   Employee evaluation reports, endorsed by the probationary police officer’s
coach-adviser, duty sergeant, team commander, police officer training
coordinator, division commander, and the Chief of Police are required before
any change of status (i.e., from probationary to career status) is approved.
Such evaluation reports shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police:
   (A)   At the conclusion of the police trainee’s formal schooling at the
Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice Training. This employee evaluation
report shall be completed by and should include recommendation for advancement
to probationary police officer. Employee evaluation reports will then be
completed every month for the first three months and every three months
thereafter throughout the probationary period of the employee; and
   (B)   Kentucky certified peace officers not required to attend the Kentucky
Department of Criminal Justice Basic Training Academy and entering directly
into the Ashland Police Department police training officer program shall have
employee evaluation reports completed every week of field training activities,
and each month for the first three months and every three months thereafter
throughout the probationary period of the employee.
(Prior Code, § 34.58) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.54 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DURING PROBATIONARY PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Following the provisions of KRS 95.450, a probationary police officer may be
terminated from employment at any time during his or her first year of
employment at the recommendation of the Chief of Police, with approval of the
City Manager and the Board of Commissioners, for any valid reason, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Inability to perform duties in a progressive manner;
   (B)   Physical or emotional incapacity;
   (C)   Inability to assimilate education and training;
   (D)   Conduct unbecoming an officer;
   (E)   Public drunkenness, on or off duty;
   (F)   Improper or illegal use of vehicle and equipment;
   (G)   Consorting or associating with known criminals, except in line of
duty;
   (H)   Insubordination;
   (I)   Negligence or incompetence;
   (J)   Any reason which demonstrates member’s undesirable character or lack
of integrity;
   (K)   Any other reason which reflects negatively or with dishonor on the
city or its Department of Police; or
   (L)   Failure to satisfactorily complete the Field Training Program after
any remedial training or extra training.
(Prior Code, § 34.59) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
§ 34.55 CAREER STATUS APPOINTMENT.
   Upon the satisfactory completion of one year of service with the Ashland
Police Department as a probationary police officer pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in this subchapter, and upon the recommendation of the
Chief of Police, and with the approval of the City Manager, such probationary
police officer may be awarded career status with all pay, benefits and
allowances pertinent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 34.60) (Ord. 174, 2022, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 86, 2023, passed
6-23-2023)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AND AGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Attendance at meetings required
   
35.02   Meetings to be open to public; exceptions
   
35.03   Criteria for membership
Boards, Commissions, Authorities Agencies and Divisions
   
35.15   Airport Board
   
35.16   Ethics Commission
   
35.17   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
35.18   Commission on Human Rights
   
35.19   Planning Commission
   
35.20   Tennis Commission
   
35.21   Public Arts Council
   
35.22   Tri-State Airport Authority
   
35.23   Urban Renewal and Community Development Agency
   
35.24   Park Board
   
35.25   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
35.26   Code Enforcement Board
   
35.27   Ashland Tourist and Convention Commission
   
35.28   Department of Parks and Recreation/Cemetery Division
   
35.29   Cemetery Board
   
35.30   Housing Authority
Cross-reference:
   Business Growth and Development Program Committee, see §
37.099
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following stand regarding attendance at regular meetings of
commissions appointed by the Mayor with the consent and approval of the Board
of Commissioners, or by the City Manager with the consent and approval of the
Board of Commissioners is hereby established. Unless otherwise established by
ordinance, any member of such a commission who shall be absent from three
consecutive meetings of the commission may be legally removed because of the
absences by the person authorized to make appointments to that commission.
Removal shall be in the sole discretion of the appointing authority, but, in
the event that the appointment of the member required the approval or consent
of the Board of Commissioners, the removal of the member on this ground shall
likewise require approval or consent of the Board of Commissioners.
Certification of such absences by the secretary of the involved commission
shall constitute sufficient proof to justify removal.
   (B)   This section shall not affect any commission established by state
statute, the terms of which conflict with any provision hereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 6-1974, passed 2-5-1974)
§ 35.02 MEETINGS TO BE OPEN TO PUBLIC; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 61.805 through 61.850 are hereby adopted as the
overriding policy relating to meetings of the Board of Commissioners and of
every other public agency of the city, as such are defined therein, including,
but not limited to, the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Adjustment, Board
of Housing Appeals, Board of Equalization, Tennis Commission, Park Board,
Recreation Commission, Joint City-School Recreation Board, Mayor’s Advisory
Commission on Human Rights and the Housing Commission.
   (B)   All meetings of a quorum of the Board of Commissioners and of every
other public agency at which any public business is discussed or at which any
action is taken shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times,
except for the following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property,
but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of a specific piece
of property to be acquired for public use or sold by the city or any public
agency thereof;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the city or any public agency thereof;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between the city as a public
employer and its employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline or dismissal of an individual employee or member of the Board of
Commissioners or a public agency, without restricting that employee’s or
member’s right to a public hearing if requested. This exception shall not be
interpreted to permit discussion of general personnel problems in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Meetings which federal or state laws specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (7)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (8)   Deliberations of judicial or quasijudicial bodies regarding
individual adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved,
his or her representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the
agency’s governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of
planning commissions, zoning commissions or boards of adjustment.
   (C)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the Board of Commissioners or of a public agency of the city, and
where the meetings are held for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of
division (B) of this section, shall be subject to the requirements of division
(B) of this section. Nothing in this division (C) shall be construed to
prohibit discussion between individual members where the purpose of the
discussion is to educate the members on specific issues.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, the
following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting closed
sessions authorized by KRS 61.810:
         (a)   Notice shall be given in regular open meeting of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in the closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the specific provision of KRS 61.810 authorizing the
closed session;
         (b)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and
carried by a majority vote in an open public session;
         (c)   No final action may be taken at a closed session; and
         (d)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
      (2)   Public agencies and activities of public agencies identified in
divisions (B)(2), (B)(3) and (B)(5) through (B)(8) shall be excluded from the
requirements of division (D)(1).
   (E)   All public agencies within the city as such are defined in KRS 61.805
shall hold all meetings in accordance with the terms of that legislation and
shall hold such meetings at specified times and places which are convenient to
the public, and shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings by resolution,
bylaws or other means required for the conduct of business. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
   (F)   All public agencies within the city as such are defined in KRS 61.805
shall take appropriate action by amendment of bylaws, adoption of resolutions,
or by other means to conform to the requirements of this section and KRS 61.805
through 61.850, as added to KRS Chapter 61. All bylaws, resolutions or other
action deemed to be taken shall be in writing, submitted to the Legal
Department of the city for approval, and placed on file in the office of the
Clerk of the city for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 24-1974, passed 7-2-1974)
§ 35.03 CRITERIA FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A member shall be a resident of the city at all times from appointment
until end of term of services.
   (B)   A member may be replaced upon missing three consecutive meetings at
the discretion of the Mayor and the Board of Commissioners, upon recommendation
and request from the appropriate Board chairperson.
   (C)   A member shall be replaced if he or she and/or any business he or she
may own becomes delinquent on any city taxes and/or financial reports and such
delinquency is not corrected within 60 days from receipt of notice from the
city.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 95-2001, passed 6-28-2001; Ord. 46-2008, passed 5-
1-2008)
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AUTHORITIES AGENCIES AND DIVISIONS
§ 35.15 AIRPORT BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby reestablished and recreated an airport board to be
known as the Ashland and Boyd County Airport Board. The Board shall possess all
the rights, powers, duties and obligations prescribed by law relating to such
an airport board. It shall have full power and authority to establish,
construct, maintain, operate, manage and control the airport and to make any
rules and regulations concerning the use of the airport and charges to be made
therefor as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Authority is hereby vested in the Mayor of the City of Ashland,
Kentucky to appoint three members of said Airport Board for terms of office as
follows. As the respective terms of the original appointees expire, their
successors shall each be appointed for a full term of four years. The Board
shall serve without compensation. This section is subject to a resolution
similar hereto being adopted by the Fiscal Court of Boyd County, Kentucky and
the appointment of members to the Board by the Fiscal Court.
   (C)   The Airport Board shall during the month of January of each year,
submit a report in writing to the Board of Commissioners concerning its
operations and activities for the prior 12-month period.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 13-1950, passed 3-7-1950; Ord. 4-1969, passed 1-27-
1969; Ord. 28-1996, passed 3-21-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Tri-State Airport Authority, see §
35.22
Statutory reference:
   Local Air Boards, see KRS 183.132
§ 35.16 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   For provisions concerning the Ethics Commission, see §
31.036.
(Prior Code, § 35.11)
§ 35.17 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Zoning Adjustment, see §§
157.240 through
157.249.
(Prior Code, § 35.12) (Ord. 71-1950, passed 10-3-1950)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Adjustment to decide variances in flood control regulations,
see §
153.62
Statutory reference:
   Board of Adjustment, see KRS 100.217 through 100.233
§ 35.18 COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMISSION. The Ashland Commission on Human Rights.
      COMMISSIONER. A member of the Ashland Commission on Human Rights.
      DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other
act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age (40 and
over), disability or familial status, or the aiding, abetting, inciting,
coercing or compelling thereof.
      FAMILIAL STATUS.
         (a)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years and are domiciled with:
            1.   A parent or another person having legal custody of the
individual or individuals; or
            2.   The designee of a parent or other person having custody, with
the written permission of the parent or other person.
         (b)   The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   (B)   Policy. It is the public policy of the city to promote fair treatment
and equal opportunity for all persons regardless of race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age (40 and above), disability or familial status.
   (C)   Creation and members. There is hereby created the Commission on Human
Rights. It shall consist of nine members, who shall be appointed on a
nonpartisan basis and shall be broadly representative of employers,
proprietors, trade unions, human rights groups and the general public. The
Mayor shall appoint the members. Of the first members appointed, three shall be
appointed for one year, three shall be appointed for two years, and three for
three years. After the first appointments, all appointments shall be for a term
of three years. A member chosen to fill a vacancy otherwise than by expiration
of a term shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member whom he or
she is to succeed. A member of the Commission is eligible for reappointment.
Before making new appointments, the Mayor shall request the recommendations of
the Commission. No elected or appointed city official shall be a member of the
Commission. The members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Functions.
      (1)   The Commission shall encourage fair treatment and equal opportunity
for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age
(40 and over), disability or familial status, and shall promote mutual
understanding and respect among all economic, social, racial, religious, sex,
age, and ethnic and disabled groups. The Commission shall endeavor to eliminate
discrimination against, and antagonism between religious, racial, sex, age,
ethnic and disabled groups and their members and other persons regardless of
familial status.
      (2)   The Commission shall administer such enforceable ordinances
forbidding discrimination as the Board of Commissioners may enact.
   (E)   Powers and duties. In performing its functions, the Commission shall
have the powers and duties to do the following:
      (1)   Employ an Executive Director and other necessary personnel within
the limits of funds made available. The Executive Director shall be a person
who has training and experience in the field of intergroup relations;
      (2)   Conduct or arrange for research projects and studies into, and
publish reports on discrimination and progress in equal opportunity in the
community;
      (3)   Accept gifts or bequests, grants or other payments, public or
private, to help finance its activities;
      (4)   Receive, initiate, investigate, seek to conciliate and hold
hearings on complaints alleging discrimination;
      (5)   Recommend methods for elimination of discrimination and intergroup
tensions, and to use its best efforts to secure compliance with its
recommendations;
      (6)   Cooperate with other intergroup relations agencies, both public and
private, on the local, state and national level in performing its functions
under this section;
      (7)   Cooperate with the various departments, agencies and boards of the
city and of the Commonwealth in effectuating the purposes of this section;
      (8)   Enlist the support of civic, labor, religious, professional and
educational organizations and institutions in community activities and programs
that will further the goals of this section;
      (9)   Organize community committees and councils that will work toward
the goals of this section;
      (10)   Recommend legislation to the Board of Commissioners and modes of
executive action to the Mayor that will effectuate the purposes of this
section;
      (11)   Submit an annual report of its activities and of the progress and
problems in intergroup relations in the community to the Mayor and the Board of
Commissioners; and
      (12)   Adopt, promulgate, amend and rescind rules and regulations to
effectuate the policies and provisions of this section.
   (F)   Cooperation of city departments. The services of all other city
departments, agencies and boards shall be made available to the Commission on
Human Rights through the City Manager and with reasonable notice upon its
request. Information in the possession of any city department, agency or board
shall be furnished to the Commission upon its request, and to the extent
permitted by law.
   (G)   Election of officers. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson, a Secretary-Treasurer and any other officers as it deems
necessary. The Chairperson of the Commission shall appoint committees that the
Commission may deem necessary in order to carry out its functions.
   (H)   Expenditures. The Commission shall adopt a budget for expenditures
within the limits of the funds made available by the city. The Secretary-
Treasurer shall make a semiannual financial report to the Board of
Commissioners and other city officials.
   (I)   Office space. The City Manager or City Commission may provide suitable
office space and facilities for the Commission, if available.
   (J)   Relationship with State Commission on Human Rights. The Commission
shall, when requested, act in an advisory capacity to and otherwise cooperate
with the State Commission on Human Rights wherever possible to effectuate
compliance with state laws. The Commission is authorized to enter into
cooperative working agreements with the State Commission on Human Rights
whenever enforceable ordinances forbidding discrimination are enacted which are
in conformity with state law.
(Prior Code, § 35.13) (Ord. 112-1999, passed 10-7-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Administration of fair housing policy, see
Chapter 91
Statutory reference:
   Local Human Rights Commissions, see KRS 344.310 through 344.450
§ 35.19 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created; purposes. The city, being a city of the second class under
the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth, in order to accomplish the
maximum economic, physical and social welfare and a coordinated and harmonious
development of land, buildings and transportation facilities, does hereby
establish and create the Planning Commission, as authorized by KRS Chapter 100.
The Planning Commission shall be organized and empowered as herein set forth.
   (B)   Name; jurisdiction. This Commission shall be known as the Ashland
Planning Commission. Upon the appointment and subsequent approval of members,
election of officers, and adoption of its bylaws, its official existence shall
begin subject to the provisions of KRS Chapter 100. The Commission may engage
in planning operations within its jurisdiction which shall be coterminous with
its political boundary, except where otherwise provided for by KRS 100.131.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine members. The Mayor,
by and with the approval of the Board of Commissioners, shall appoint the
members of the Planning Commission. All members of the Planning Commission
shall serve without compensation but reimbursement of expenses shall be
authorized.
      (2)   The term of office of all elected public officials appointed to the
Commission shall be the same as their official tenure in office. The term of
office of other members of the Commission shall be four years; except, that the
original terms shall be staggered so that the proportionate number shall serve
one, two, three and four years, respectively. Reappointments or appointments to
fill vacancies shall continue a staggered pattern. All vacancies, whether by
resignation, dismissal or expiration of the term of office, shall be filled
within 60 days by the appointing authority or as may otherwise be provided for
in KRS 100.147.
(KRS 100.143)
      (3)   The constitutional oath of office shall be administered to all
members of the Commission before entering upon their duties. The oath shall be
administered as provided by law.
      (4)   A member may be removed by the appointing authority for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or conflict of interest. The removed
member shall have the right of an appeal in the manner prescribed by KRS
100.157.
   (D)   Officers; staff. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and any
other officers which it shall deem necessary from among its citizen members.
The term of office shall be one year, and all officers shall be eligible for
re-election. The Commission may employ a staff as it may deem necessary for its
work and may contract with professional planners and other parties for such
services as it may require.
   (E)   Meetings. The Commission shall conduct at least one regular meeting
each month for the transaction of its business. The bylaws adopted by the
Commission shall reflect the schedule of regular meetings, the manner in which
notice shall be given, date, time and place and the subject or subjects to be
discussed at special meetings, as well as the method of calling special
meetings. A simple majority of the total membership shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. After a quorum has been established, a simple
majority of that quorum may transact any official business, except in those
instances where there is to be an adoption or amendment of the Commission’s
bylaws or elements of the comprehensive plan or regulations, in which case a
vote of a simple majority of the total membership shall be required to
constitute a quorum.
   (F)   Bylaws. The Commission shall adopt and approve its bylaws before it
may properly transact any other business. The bylaws shall set forth the
procedures, rules, and regulations necessary for the Commission to conduct its
business. The bylaws shall describe the method for administration of funds and
provide for an annual audit thereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.14) (Ord. 1-1967, passed 1-9-1967; Ord. 21-1968, passed 5-27-
1968)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission to approve or disapprove subdivision plats, see §§
154.020 and
154.038
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission, see KRS 100.133 through 100.181
§ 35.20 TENNIS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose and establishment.
      (1)   The city, in order to accomplish the maximum economic, physical and
social welfare of its citizens and a harmonious development of tennis
facilities outside of the present facilities within the city’s park system,
does hereby establish and create the City Tennis Commission, to be organized
and empowered as herein set forth.
      (2)   The Commission shall be known as the City Tennis Commission. Upon
the appointment and taking of oath of its members, election of officers and
adoption of its bylaws, its official existence shall begin. The Commission may
engage in the construction, operation and maintenance of public tennis
facilities within the city, except as to the tennis facilities presently
located within the existing park facilities of the city, and may operate or
maintain the excepted facilities upon request of the Board of Commissioners and
the Board or Commission of the city which has jurisdiction over such
facilities.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The City Tennis Commission shall consist of seven members. The
members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The members of the City Tennis Commission shall be appointed for a
term of three years. Those persons presently serving on the Commission under a
five-year term with four or more years remaining shall, at their request, have
their term reduced by two years. Of the two newly created positions, one
position shall have a term of two years from the date of appointment, and the
remaining position shall have a term of three years.
      (3)   Each person appointed to the City Tennis Commission shall be a
resident of the city and of the age of 18 years or older. A member who becomes
a nonresident of the city thereupon vacates the membership held on the
Commission. One member of the Board of Commissioners may serve on the City
Tennis Commission, but only one member of the Board of Commissioners may hold
membership at any one time. No other elected or appointed official of the city
may be appointed as a member of the City Tennis Commission.
      (4)   All members of the City Tennis Commission shall serve without
compensation.
      (5)   Vacancies on the City Tennis Commission for any unexpired term
shall be filled by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The City Tennis Commission may adopt bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own government not inconsistent with any state
law, this code or any other city ordinance.
   (D)   Meetings. Meetings of the City Tennis Commission shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson and at other times determined by the Commission. The
bylaws adopted by the Commission shall reflect the schedule of regular
meetings, the manner of notice of meetings, as well as the method of calling
special meetings. Three members of the City Tennis Commission present shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (E)   Officers and staff. The Commission shall elect from among its
membership a Chairperson and
any officers which it shall deem necessary. The term of office shall be one
year, with eligibility for reappointment. The Commission may employ a staff as
it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with professional planners,
engineers, consultants, tennis professionals, contractors and any other persons
or firms whose services it may require.
   (F)   Powers.
      (1)   The City Tennis Commission is hereby granted the power and
authority to do the following:
         (a)   Construct, operate and maintain public tennis facilities within
the city, the locations to be limited only as provided in this section;
         (b)   Receive gifts, grants, loans and property of every kind, both
real and personal, tangible and intangible;
         (c)   Adopt rules and regulations for the operation of tennis
facilities, which rules and regulations are to be obeyed and respected by the
users thereof and the public generally;
         (d)   Charge for the use of tennis facilities if otherwise not
prohibited;
         (e)   Invest and reinvest any property or proceeds thereof it may
receive from any source;
         (f)   Enter into deeds, leases, subleases, assignments and contracts
of every kind permitted by law; and
         (g)   In general, to use all legal means to operate public tennis
facilities for the public good.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing powers, the Commission shall
be non-profit in nature and all receipts of the Commission shall be used solely
for the purpose of constructing, maintaining, improving and expanding tennis
facilities within the city.
      (3)   Facilities operated by the City Tennis Commission shall be
available to all residents of the city without regard to race, creed, religion,
color, place of national origin or sex.
      (4)   The City Tennis Commission shall not financially obligate the city
or its tax revenue and is expressly prohibited from doing so.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 43-1972, passed 9-19-1972; Ord. 77-1987, passed 8-
18-1987)
§ 35.21 PUBLIC ARTS COUNCIL.
   (A)   PUBLIC ART as referred to herein shall mean art that is visually or
physically accessible to the public and that is accepted by, donated to, or
acquired by the City of Ashland, Kentucky. Public art that is neither acquired
by the city through donation or purchased with public funds or erected through
special conditions requiring approval by the City of Ashland shall not be
subject to this section.
   (B)   There is hereby created the Public Arts Council, a committee
established by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Public Arts Council shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent and approval of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Each member shall serve for a term of three years or until his or her
successor is duly appointed provided that the initial terms of the initial
members shall be staggered with two appointed for three-year terms, two
appointed for two-year terms and one appointed for a one-year term.
   (E)   The purpose of the Public Arts Council shall be to encourage and
promote the appreciation and enjoyment of the arts and the cultural resources
of the city. Promotion of the arts in the city is vital, to the growth of the
city and the well-being of its citizens. The arts are an important part of the
cultural and economic life of the city and enrich not only the participants in
the arts, but those who observe and appreciate the arts as well.
   (F)   Before any public art is accepted, approved or purchased by the city,
an application for approval shall first be submitted to the Public Arts Council
on such form as it may establish.
   (G)   The Public Arts Council shall have the following specific powers and
duties:
      (1)   The Public Arts Council shall review all public art to be purchased
by the city or public art that is proposed to be donated to the city and shall
recommend the acceptance, rejection or purchase of the same to the Board of
Commissioners;
      (2)   The Public Arts Council shall establish goals and criteria to be
used when reviewing proposed public arts projects for possible recommendation;
      (3)   The Public Arts Council will review the proposed location of all
public art that is proposed to be located on city property or rights-of-way and
shall recommend the situs and proposed location of any such public art to the
Board of Commissioners for its consideration and approval;
      (4)   The Public Arts Council shall solicit proposals for public art
commissions and review artist proposals and recommend commissions to the Board
of Commissioners as appropriate;
      (5)   The Public Arts Council may make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners, the Park Board and the Planning Commission regarding the use of
public art to enhance existing development;
      (6)   The Public Arts Council may make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners with regard to the planning of capital improvement projects to be
undertaken by the city where there is a potential for the incorporation of
public art in the final development of property;
      (7)   The Public Arts Council shall review and recommend for approval or
rejection by the Board of Commissioners proposed art work for private
development projects when the developer is legally obligated to provide public
art;
      (8)   The Public Arts Council shall recommend to the Board of
Commissioners effective and efficient management and maintenance practices for
all public art within the city; and
      (9)   The Public Arts Council shall pursue private sources to fund public
art initiatives for the city.
   (H)   The Ashland Public Arts Council shall make its recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners with respect to any proposed donation or purchase of
public art for which application has been made within 30 days of the filing of
an application.
(Prior Code, § 35.16) (Ord. 122, 2019, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 35.22 TRI-STATE AIRPORT AUTHORITY.
   The city shall engage in financial cooperation and assistance with and to
the Tri-State Airport Authority to the extent that the city becomes a member
thereof and has representation thereon. The Mayor is hereby authorized and
directed to appoint a member of the Tri-State Airport Authority to serve for a
period of three years from and after appointment.
(Prior Code, § 35.17) (Ord. 2-1971, passed 2-8-1971)
Cross-reference:
   Airport Board, see §
35.15
§ 35.23 URBAN RENEWAL AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Board shall be known as the Ashland Urban Renewal and
Community Development Agency, hereinafter referred to as AUR. Upon the
appointment and taking of oath by its members, election of officers and
adoption of its bylaws, its official existence shall begin. The AUR may engage
in the design, administration and management of a program designed to
rehabilitate housing and preserve neighborhoods in the city.
   (B)   Composition. The AUR shall consist of five members.
   (C)   Appointment. The members of the AUR shall be appointed by the Mayor
and Board of Commissioners of the city.
   (D)   Term of membership. The members of the AUR shall each be appointed for
a four-year term.
   (E)   Qualification of members. Each person appointed to the AUR shall be a
resident of the city and of the age of 18 years or older. A member who becomes
a nonresident of the city thereupon automatically vacates membership on the
Board. At least two members of the Board must be from a profession allied to
the rehabilitation of housing and preservation of neighborhoods, including
finance, real estate, architecture, home building and construction,
contracting, labor and social services.
   (F)   Vacancies. Vacancies on the AUR for any unexpired term shall be filled
by the Board of Commissioners of the city.
   (G)   Rules and regulations. The AUR may adopt bylaws, rules and regulations
for its own government not inconsistent with any state law or city ordinance.
   (H)   Meetings. Meetings of the AUR shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson or Secretary-Treasurer. The bylaws adopted by the
AUR shall reflect the schedule of regular meetings, the manner of notice of
meetings, as well as method of calling special meetings. Three members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (I)   Officers and staff. The Board shall elect a Chairperson and any
officers which it may deem necessary. The term of office shall be one year with
eligibility for reappointment. The Commission may employ a staff as it may deem
necessary for its work, and may contract with professional planners, engineers,
consultants, attorneys, architects, contractors, a public or private service
agency, including the city, lending institutions and any other persons, firms,
agencies or associations whose services it may require.
   (J)   Powers.
      (1)   The AUR is hereby granted the following powers:
         (a)   To design, administer and manage a program to rehabilitate
houses and preserve neighborhoods in the city;
         (b)   To seek and receive gifts, grants, loans and property of every
kind, both real and personal, tangible and intangible;
         (c)   To acquire property for demolition or rehabilitation and provide
for relocation of any occupants when it is determined to be consistent with the
purposes of the Board;
         (d)   To adopt policies, rules and regulations for the administration
and management of said rehabilitation and preservation program; to select, with
the approval of the Board of Commissioners of the city, target neighborhoods
for rehabilitation and preservation;
         (e)   To invest and reinvest any property, both real and personal,
tangible and intangible or proceeds thereof it may receive from any source; and
         (f)   To enter into deeds, leases, subleases, assignments and
contracts of every kind permitted by law; and in general to use all legal means
to cause and provide for the rehabilitation of housing and preservation of
neighborhoods within the city.
      (2)   The AUR will be specifically responsible for planning,
administering and managing any rehabilitation or preservation program, to
include historic preservation, funded in whole or in part or as an adjunct to
the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Any program administered by
the AUR will be available to all residents of the city without regard to race,
creed, religion, color, place of national origin or sex. The AUR shall not
financially obligate the city and is expressly prohibited from doing so.
(Prior Code, § 35.18) (Ord. 21-1988, passed 4-19-1988; Ord. 40, passed 4-9-
1992)
§ 35.24 PARK BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 97.455 and 97.465, there is hereby created a Board of
Park Commissioners commonly known and referred to as the “Park Board”.
   (B)   The Park Board shall consist of seven members who are citizens and
residents of this city and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the Board of City Commissioners.
   (C)   The members of the Park Board shall be appointed for terms of four
years, except that the members first appointed shall be so appointed that the
terms of not more than two members shall expire in the same year. Appointments
made to fill an unexpired term shall be made for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
   (D)   Absence from more than two consecutive meetings may constitute cause
for removal from office. Any member of the Park Board may be removed by
majority vote of the members of the legislative body of the city.
   (E)   The Park Board shall be an advisory board only and shall advise the
legislative body and the Director of Parks and Recreation of the city regarding
city parks and recreational programs and projects and shall advise the
legislative body and the Director of Parks and Recreation as to methods to
promote the full use of all park facilities in the interest of the public.
   (F)   The Park Board shall establish rules not inconsistent with the
foregoing provisions and shall fix the time and place for holding of its
meetings.
   (G)   Park Board compensation: members of the Park Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (H)   Park Board duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Park Board shall be responsible for the city’s policy regarding
removal, topping and planting of trees in Central Park, Oliverio Park and all
present and future parks and on the rights-of-way in the downtown Central
Business District bounded on the East by 18th Street, on the North by Greenup
Avenue, on the West by 12th Street and on the South by Carter Avenue.
      (2)   It shall additionally be the responsibility of the Board to study,
investigate, the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs located in parks, and downtown business areas.
The Board, when requested by the City Commission, shall consider, investigate,
make a finding, report and for recommendation upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 35.19) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 35.25 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 97.020 and 97.441, there is hereby
created the Division of Recreation for the city.
   (B)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall consist of such officers
and employees as shall be provided by the Board of Commissioners of the city.
The Department of Parks and Recreation shall coordinate, supervise and oversee
the recreational use of all public parks and any lands or lots heretofore or
hereafter devised and bequeathed to the city for park purposes, including, but
not limited to, 47th Street Park (Boat Dock), AK Steel Sports Park, C. Wendell
Banks Park (a/k/a Southside Park), Norman “Dutch” Berry Park, Central Park,
Dawson Park and Pool, East Central Park, Joseph P. Harris Linear Park, Oliverio
(formerly Clyffeside) Park, Pollard Mills Park, Riverfront Park (Port of
Ashland), Charles and Betty Russell Park, Spring Park and such other city
properties as defined by KRS 97.425.
   (C)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be responsible for the
scheduling of the use of city facilities and parks and shall be responsible for
the operation and administration of city recreation programs. The Department of
Parks and Recreation shall, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners,
after consultation with the Park Board, promulgate and post such rules and
regulations as is deemed necessary for the conduct of persons in the parks. The
Department of Parks and Recreation shall coordinate efforts with the other
departments of city government and the office of the City Manager.
   (D)   Further, there is hereby recreated the position of Park
Superintendent. The duties of the Park Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Shall have charge of the care and upkeep of all parks and pools
owned by the city and shall see that such parks and pools are kept in a clean
and well-maintained condition;
      (2)   Shall report to the Director of the Department of Parks and
Recreation when any of the park buildings or equipment need repair;
      (3)   Shall see that all play areas and facilities are kept in good and
safe condition and that all rest rooms and facilities are kept in a clean and
sanitary condition;
      (4)   Shall have supervision over all employees assigned to work in the
Department of Parks and Recreation with the exception of the Director; and
      (5)   Shall coordinate the efforts of the Department of Parks and
Recreation with the other departments of city government and the office of the
City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 35.20) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 35.26 CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Title of section. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Code Enforcement Board Ordinance”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED. Property or any improvements thereon that is unoccupied, not
in use, neglected, and/or not serviced by public utilities.
      CODE OFFICIAL. Property Maintenance Inspector/Building Inspector, the
Community Development Director or their duly authorized representatives, all of
whom are charged with the administration and enforcement of this section.
      DEMOLITION. The act of demolishing or razing of a building, structure or
part thereof to the ground level.
      OFFENSES.
         (a)   FIRST OFFENSE shall mean a citation issued on a specific parcel
of property on one occasion within a 12-month period.
         (b)   SECOND OFFENSE shall mean a citation issued on a specific parcel
of property on two occasions within a 12-month period.
         (c)   THIRD PLUS OFFENSES shall mean a citation issued on a specific
parcel of property on three or more occasions within a 12-month period.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, business, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. All of the provisions set forth herein and any
and all other ordinances hereafter adopted by the Board of Commissioners
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839, as may be amended from time to time.
      PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The administrative body
created and acting under the authority of the KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
      PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. All city citation officers
and other positions authorized to enforce the Code.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The physical condition or occupancy of any property regarded as
a public nuisance at common law;
         (b)   Any physical condition or occupancy of any property or
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, or swimming pools, shafts, basements, excavations
and unsafe fences or structures;
         (c)   Any property that has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing
facilities;
         (d)   Any property that is unsafe for human habitation;
         (e)   Any property that is in imminent danger of becoming a fire or
other hazard, or is manifestly unsafe or unsecure, so as to pose an imminent
threat or danger to life, limb or property;
         (f)   Any property from which the plumbing, electrical, heating or
other facilities required by this Code have been removed or from which
utilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective or
the required precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
         (g)   Any property that is unsanitary, littered with rubbish or
garbage or has uncontrolled weeds and/or grass growing on it;
         (h)   Any residence, building, outbuilding or other structure that is
in a state of dilapidation, disrepair, deterioration or decay, faulty
construction, overcrowded, open, vacant or abandoned, damaged by fire to the
extent that it is uninhabitable, in danger of collapse or failure or dangerous
to anyone on or near the property;
         (i)   Any parking on grass areas of the city right-of-way or any
residential yard space or otherwise in violation of city codes;
         (j)   Any vehicle, device or other contrivance, or part thereof,
propelled by human or mechanical power, that if operational would be used for
transportation of persons on public streets and highways, which upon
inspection, are found to be wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative, abandoned, discarded or expired tags, see division (K) of this
section; and
         (k)   Excessive weeds and grass, see division (L) of this section.
      REMEDY. The action taken to abate any nuisance, in order to bring the
property determined to be in violation, into compliance with the requirements
of this Property Maintenance Code.
      VENTILATION DAYS. As used in the International Property Maintenance Code
304.14 shall be the period from May 1 to October 31.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer and
Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction over and
shall enforce this Property Maintenance Code and all other ordinances hereafter
adopted which specifically provide for the enforcement by the Code Enforcement
Officer(s) or Board, in the manner set forth herein.
   (D)   Powers and responsibilities of the Property Maintenance Code
Enforcement Officer(s); notice of violation; issuance of citation and
procedure; appeal process; abatement of nuisance; right of entry; liability;
modifications. The following provisions shall govern all enforcement powers,
responsibilities and procedures administered by the Property Maintenance Code
Enforcement Officer(s):
      (1)   Notice of violation. Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this
section, if a Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on
the officer’s personal observation or investigation, that a person has violated
the Property Maintenance Code, the officer shall issue a notice of violation to
the property owner, resident, tenant, occupant or other violator, allowing that
person a specified and reasonable number of days to abate the violation. The
violator may upon request, be allowed a reasonable extension of time to abate
the violation without imposition of any charges, costs, penalties and fees, in
the sole discretion of the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer. If
the violator fails to abate the violation within the time prescribed therein, a
new and separate notice of violation may be issued for subsequent and separate
violations of the Property Maintenance Code. In the event that the resident,
tenant, occupant or other violator is issued a notice of violation, the
property owner of record will receive a copy of said notice.
      (2)   Notice of violation procedure. Notices of violation issued by Code
Enforcement Officer for violations of the Code shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The address, location or description of the property found to be
in violation of the Code;
         (b)   The date and time of inspection;
         (c)   The address of the property on which the notice is issued;
         (d)   The date the notice is issued;
         (e)   The facts constituting the offense;
         (f)   The section of the Code violated;
         (g)   The name of the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer;
and
         (h)   A statement that a civil fine, charges, costs, penalties and/or
administrative fees will be imposed for the violation if it is not abated in
the manner required by the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   Type and delivery of notice. The notice of violation shall be in
writing and shall be reasonably calculated to inform the violator of the nature
of the violation. It will be in the form of a door hanger or may be hand-
delivered to the property owner, resident, tenant, occupant or other violator
or may be served or sent by first class mail addressed to the last known
property owner of record as listed in the County Property Valuation Office. If
the notice cannot be delivered to the owner, resident, tenant, occupant or
other violator in person or notice sent by first class mail is returned by the
U.S. Postal Service because said notice is undeliverable, marked return to
sender or the owner has left no forwarding address notice shall be given by
placing it on the door of the most visible entrance to the property with
dwellings or structures located thereon, or by posting a sign, at least eight
and one-half inches by 11 inches in dimension in a conspicuous location on the
property.
      (4)   Issuance of citation. If the property owner, resident, tenant,
occupant or other violator fails or refuses to abate the violation within the
time and manner required by the Code Enforcement Officer, the Officer is
authorized to issue a citation. The citation shall represent a determination by
the Code Enforcement Officer that a violation has been committed and that
determination shall be final unless it is appealed by the alleged violator to
the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Board in the manner prescribed
herein.
      (5)   Citation procedure. Citations issued by Code Enforcement Officer
for violations of the Code shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The address, location or description of the property found to be
in violation of the Code;
         (b)   The date and time of inspection;
         (c)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is
issued;
         (d)   The date the citation is issued;
         (e)   The facts constituting the offense;
         (f)   The section of the Code violated;
         (g)   The name of the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer;
         (h)   The fines, charges, costs, penalties and/or administrative fees,
imposed for the violation if the citation is not appealed in the manner
prescribed within this section;
         (i)   The maximum fine that may be imposed under this section for the
violation in question;
         (j)   The procedure for the violator to follow in order to pay the
fine or to appeal the citation;
         (k)   A statement that if the violator fails to pay the fine set forth
in the citation or appeal the citation within the time allowed, the violator
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to appeal the citation and the Code Enforcement Officer’s
determination that the violation occurred shall be final; and
         (l)   Notice that a lien may be filed against the property on which
the violation occurred and that proceedings to enforce the lien may be
initiated to collect fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or fees, including
attorney and administrative fees.
      (6)   Type and delivery of citation. The citation shall be in writing and
shall be reasonably calculated to inform the violator of the nature of the
violation. It shall be sent by first class to the resident,
tenant, occupant or other violator as well as the last known property owner of
record as listed in the County Property Valuation Office. If the citation
cannot be delivered by first class mail or is returned by the U.S. Postal
Service because said citation is undeliverable, marked return to sender or the
owner has left no forwarding address the citation shall be given by placing it
on the door of the most visible entrance to the property with dwellings or
structures located thereon, or by posting a sign, at least eight and one-half
inches by 11 inches in dimension in a conspicuous location on the property.
      (7)   Abatement of nuisance. If the violator does not appeal the citation
within the time prescribed, the Code Enforcement Officer issuing the citation
shall enter a final order finding and determining that the violation was
committed and no appeal was timely filed. The Code Enforcement Officer may
thereafter cause the nuisance to be abated by any and all means reasonable and
necessary. A copy of the final order shall be served on the property owner;
resident, tenant, occupant or other violator found to be in violation of this
Code.
      (8)   Emergency abatement. Nothing in division (D)(7) of this section
shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action to abate any violation of
this section without prior notice to the property owner, resident, tenant or
other occupant when an Enforcement Officer, upon inspection of the property has
reason to believe that a violation presents a serious and imminent threat to
any person, the public’s health, safety or welfare, or if in the absence of
immediate remedial action, the effects or consequences of a violation will
within reasonable probability, cause irreparable or irreversible harm and/or
property damage.
      (9)   Right of entry. Enforcement Officer(s), and their duly authorized
agents, assistants, employees, or contractors, after first having obtained the
consent of the property owner, resident, tenant or other occupant may enter
upon private or public property to conduct inspections. If the property owner,
resident, tenant or other occupant does not give the Enforcement Officer(s)
consent to enter upon and inspect the property, an on-site inspection of the
property shall not occur until it is authorized by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (10)   Liability. The Code Enforcement Officer(s), charged with the
enforcement of this section, while acting within the course and scope of their
duties under this section, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally and
are hereby relieved from any and all personal liability for injuries and damage
to persons or property. Any suit instituted against any Code Enforcement
Officer or employee because of a lawful act performed by that officer or
employee in the discharge of duties imposed under the provisions of this
section, shall be defended by the city until final adjudication of any
proceedings.
      (11)   Discretionary modifications. The Enforcement Officer shall have
the discretion to modify a notice of violation, provided the officer shall
first find that special circumstances that makes strict compliance with this
section impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and
purpose of this section and that such modification does not vitiate health,
life and fire safety requirements. The details of actions granting
modifications shall be recorded and entered in the Community Development
Department files.
   (E)   Appeal process; appeal of notice of violation; appeal of citation. The
following details the appeal process:
      (1)   Appeal of citation. Upon receipt of a citation, the property owner,
resident, tenant, occupant or other violator shall respond to it not later than
seven days following the issuance or posting on the property the notice of
violation by either paying the fines, charges, costs, penalties and/or fees,
including administrative fees assessed therein, or by filing an appeal in
writing with the Community Development Department, in writing, requesting a
hearing before the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Board.
      (2)   Payment of assessed fines, charges, administrative fees and
penalties. Payment of assessed fines, charges, administrative fees and
penalties shall not relieve the property owner, resident, tenant, occupant or
other violator from his or her obligation to bring the property on which the
violation occurred into compliance with this Code within a reasonable time
thereafter, as solely determined by the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (F)   Appointment of members; term of office; removal of Board members from
office; liability. There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 82.700 to 82.725, a
Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Board (hereafter the “Board”), which
shall be composed of five members.
      (1)   Qualifications. Members of the Board shall own property within the
city for a period of at least one year prior to appointment to the Board and
shall maintain legal ownership interest in at least one parcel of real property
within the city throughout the term in office.
      (2)   Appointment. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city
with the approval of the Ashland Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Initial appointments. The initial appointments to the five-member
Board shall be as follows. One member shall be appointed to a one-year term.
Two members appointed to a two-year term. Two members appointed to a three-year
term. All subsequent Board appointments shall be for a term of three years.
      (4)   Vacancy. If a vacancy on the Board occurs, the Mayor with approval
of the Board of Commissioners, shall within 60 days of the vacancy, appoint a
new member or members. If the vacancy is not filled within the prescribed time
period, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint a member to fill the vacancy.
      (5)   Removal. Members of the Board shall only be removed therefrom by
the Board of Commissioners for misconduct, inefficiency or willful neglect of
duty. Prior to removal, the Mayor or member(s) of the Board of Commissioners
requesting same, shall submit in writing to the member in question and the
Ashland Board of Commissioners, the reasons for it.
      (6)   Oath. All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before
entering upon the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by
§ 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
      (7)   Other city office held. No member of the Code Enforcement Board may
hold any elected or non-elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city.
      (8)   Liability. Members of the Board charged with the enforcement of
this section, while acting on behalf of the city and within their official
duties and capacity, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and are
hereby relieved individually and collectively from all personal liability for
any injury and or damages to persons or property as a result of the discharge
of official duties imposed herein. Any suit instituted against any Board member
because of an act performed by that Board member in the lawful discharge of
duties and under the provisions of this section shall be defended by the legal
representative of the city until the final determination of the proceedings.
   (G)   General powers of the Board.
      (1)   The Board is authorized and directed to conduct evidentiary
hearings, issue decisions and abatement orders and impose fines, charges,
costs, penalties and/or fees, including administrative fees in the final
adjudication of appeals brought before it;
      (2)   To adopt any and all policies, rules and regulations, reasonably
required to implement, administer and conduct its business and hearings brought
before it; and
      (3)   Authorize Enforcement Officer(s) to file liens against properties
found to be in violation of the Code to secure the collection of fines,
penalties, fees, charges and or cost, including administrative fees.
   (H)   Organization of Board; conduct of meetings and Board members; quorum.
      (1)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson from among its
members. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
      (2)   The Board shall hold regular monthly meetings on a date, and during
times to be established by the Board. Regular and special meetings shall be
scheduled and held in accordance with requirements of the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act. Regular and special meetings may be cancelled if there are no
appeals or other business to be considered by the Board.
      (3)   All meetings and hearings of the Board shall be held in accordance
with the requirements of KRS 82.700 et seq., KRS 381.770 et seq., Roberts Rules
of Order, the Kentucky Open Meetings Act and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
      (4)   For the purpose of conducting all business and hearings brought
before it, three members of the Board, shall, if present, constitute a quorum.
      (5)   Minutes, records and/or transcripts of all proceedings and action
taken shall be kept by the Board and the vote of each member on any issue
decided by them shall be recorded therein.
   (I)   Board hearing; notice; and final order.
      (1)   When an appeal has been properly filed and a hearing has been
requested it will be heard at the next scheduled Code Enforcement Board
meeting. Otherwise the Board may convene for the purpose of conducting any
other business brought before it or a majority of the membership of the Board.
      (2)   Not less than seven days before any requested hearing, the Board
shall notify the appellant of the date, time, and place of the hearing. Notice
shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested at his or her last
known address; or by personal delivery.
      (3)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Board who fails to
appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived
the right to a hearing on an appeal a notice of violation or citation and a
determination that a violation was committed shall be entered and become final.
The Board shall enter a final order confirming the violation and shall direct
the nuisance to be abated and/or impose the fines, charges, costs, penalties
and/or fees, including administrative fees assessed in the citation. If the
violator has not abated the nuisance conditions on the notice of violation or
citation within the time provided, the city may promptly abate the nuisance
and/or issues another violation which may be a new and separate offense in
accordance with division (D)(1) of this section. A copy of the final order
shall be served upon the violator/appellant.
      (4)   When a hearing is held under this section, the Board shall elicit
testimony from witnesses and allow relative demonstrative evidence. All
testimony shall be recorded by audio, video or stenographic means. The
Chairperson or any Board member shall have authority to administer the
following oath. “Do you solemnly swear and affirm to tell the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth”. Testimony shall be taken from the Property
Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator and any witnesses to
the violation offered by the Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer or
alleged violator and any witnesses with relevant personal knowledge of the
violation or citation on appeal. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
      (5)   In making its determination, the Board shall, based solely on the
evidence, adduced during the hearing determine by a preponderance of the
evidence whether or not a violation has been committed. If at the conclusion of
the hearing, the Board determines that a violation has been committed, an order
shall be issued upholding the citation and the Board shall authorize the
Community Development Department to abate the nuisance condition on appeal and
impose reasonable and necessary fines, charges, costs, penalties, and/or fees,
including administrative fees imposed therein, or a combination of the forgoing
remedies. Provided however, the final order of the Board shall provide the
violator with reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, to abate the violation.
If the violator does not abate in the manner required and within the time
provided in the final order, another notice of violation may be issued in
accordance with division (D)(1) of this section, for another violation of the
Property Maintenance Code.
      (6)   Findings of fact, conclusions of law and decisions of the Board
shall be reduced to writing and signed and dated by the majority of the Board
the date the order was entered. A copy of the findings of fact, conclusions of
law and decisions of the Board shall be furnished to the appellant named in the
citation at his or her last known address.
      (7)   The Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer, may abate the
violation in order to bring the property into compliance with the Property
Maintenance Code if a final order upholding the citation is entered by the
Board or any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (J)   Appeal to district court; final judgment.
      (1)   An appeal from any judgment, decision or determination of the Board
shall be made to the Boyd County District Court within 30 days of the date of
the Board’s judgment, decision or determination. The appeal shall be initiated
by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the Board’s final order in the same
manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   The action before the District Court shall be tried de novo and the
burden shall be upon the city to establish that a violation occurred. If the
court finds that a violation occurred, the property owner, resident, tenant,
occupant or other violator shall be ordered to abate the violation and pay to
the city all fines, charges, costs, penalties and/or fees, including
administrative fees occurring as of the date of the judgment. If the District
Court finds a violation did not occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the
citation and the plaintiff/appellant shall be authorized to recover his or her
cost. If the property owner, resident, tenant, occupant or other violator does
not abate the violation in the time provided, another notice of violation may
be issued in accordance with division (D)(1) of this section, for each
subsequent and separate violation of the Property Maintenance Code.
      (3)   If no appeal from a final judgment, decision or order of the Board
is filed within the time period set in division (J)(1) of this section, the
Board’s order shall be deemed final and enforceable for all purposes provided
herein.
   (K)   Junked motor vehicles.
      (1)   Defined. JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES shall mean any vehicle, device or
other contrivance, or part thereof, propelled by human or mechanical power,
that if operational would be used for transportation of persons on public
streets and highways, which upon inspection, are found to be in one or more of
the following conditions:
         (a)   Wrecked;
         (b)   Dismantled;
         (c)   Partially dismantled;
         (d)   Inoperative;
         (e)   Abandoned;
         (f)   Discarded; and
         (g)   Expired tags.
      (2)   Presence of junked motor vehicle. The presence of any junked motor
vehicle on public property or any private lot, tract or parcel of land or
portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the
city shall be deemed a public nuisance, and shall further be considered rubbish
or refuse, and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause of maintain such
public nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering
inoperable, abandoning or discarding any motor vehicle on the real property or
to suffer, permit or allow a junked motor vehicle to be parked, left or
maintained on his or her own property, provided that this provision shall not
apply with regard to:
         (a)   Any motor vehicle in an enclosed building; and
         (b)   Any motor vehicle on the property of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful manner, when necessary to the operation of such
enterprise.
      (3)   Liability for damages to removed vehicle. Neither the owner nor
occupant of the property from which any aforesaid junked motor vehicle(s) shall
be removed, their servants or agents, or any department of the city, or its
agents, shall be liable for any loss or damage to the junked motor vehicle
while being removed or as a result of any subsequent sale to other disposition.
      (4)   Compliance by removal of vehicle. The removal of a junked motor
vehicle from the property within the number of days required in the notice of
violation issued by the Property Maintenance Enforcement Officer, shall be
deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and no
further action shall be taken against the owner of the junked motor vehicle or
appliance or the owner or occupant of the property.
      (5)   Right of entry. In the enforcement of this subchapter, a Property
Maintenance Code Enforcement Officer, and his or her duly authorized agents,
assistants, employees or contractors with the prior consent of the owner,
tenant or occupant, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction may enter
upon private of public property to examine a junked motor vehicle, or obtain
information as to the identity of a junked motor vehicle and the owner thereof,
and to remove or cause removal of a junked motor vehicle or appliance declared
to be a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
      (6)   Subchapter supplemental to other regulations. The provisions of
this subchapter are supplemental and in addition to all other regulatory codes,
statutes and ordinances heretofore enacted by the city, state or any other
legal entity or agency having jurisdiction. The provisions of this subchapter
shall be deemed cumulative of the provisions and regulations contained in the
Code, save and except that, where the provisions of this subchapter and the
sections hereunder are in conflict with the provisions elsewhere in this Code,
then the provisions contained herein shall prevail. Any and all ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extend of such conflict,
hereby repealed.
   (L)   Excessive weeds and grass.
      (1)   Duty of the property owner.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance,
health hazard, or source of filth to develop on the land through the
accumulation of the excessive growth thereon of weeds, like vegetation, or
grass.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of any land within the city and the persons are required
to maintain the land so as to prevent the accumulation and to cut or otherwise
remove the growth of weeds, like vegetation, or grass so that the public
nuisance, health hazard or source of filth shall not exist.
      (2)   Prohibited weed growth; exceptions.
         (a)   Prohibition. No owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city shall permit or maintain on any such
premises or adjacent rights-of-way any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth
of grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height than eight inches; nor
any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include
Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders (any species of Cuscuta), mustards
(charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis),
wild carrot (Daucus carrots), bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), perennial sow-
thistle (Sonchus arvensis), common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia), giant
ragweed (Ambrosia trifida), hemp dogbane (Aporynum cannabinum), wild lettuce
(Lactura scariola), common cocklebur (Xanthium pensylvancum), yellow nutsedge
(Cyperus esculentus), foxtail (Serataria sp.), Pokeberry (Phytolacca
americana), multi-flora rose (Rose multiflora), Kudzu, Japanese bamboo and
poison ivy (rhus radicans), poison sumac (Rhus toxiccondendron) and poison oak.
         (b)   Exemptions to the requirements contained in division (L)(2)(a)
of this section.
            1.   Excepted from the provisions of division (L)(2)(a) of this
section are flower gardens, plots of shrubbery, vegetable gardens, small grain
plots and farm land under cultivation. Exemption under the terms of this
division (L)(2)(b) cannot be claimed unless the land has been cultivated and
cared for in a manner appropriate to such exempt categories.
            2.   While owners of undeveloped parcels of land shall be required
to remove those noxious weeds as listed in division (L)(2)(a) of this section,
the control of the growth of grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height
than ten inches on the average, shall be required only within 100 feet of the
property line of developed parcels, within the street, alley and highway
rights-of-way adjacent to property and the first 50 feet of property in depth
adjacent to the rights-of-way.
            3.   Developed parcels of one acres shall be required to meet the
conditions of division (L)(2)(b)2. of this section, and to control the growth
of grass or rank vegetation within the immediate 100 feet in any direction from
the walls of the principal building.
            4.   The City Manager or his or her designee may grant exemption in
certain areas for the control of erosion, urban forestry, and preservation of
any rare species of flora or fauna.
   (M)   Citation fine schedule. Citations issued by the Property Maintenance
Enforcement Officer that are not appealed or which are upheld by the Board or
any court of proper jurisdiction, shall be subject to the following schedule of
civil penalties for each violation:
 
Violation             1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd + Offense
Property maintenance  $75         $150        $250
Junked motor vehicles $75         $150        $250
Junked appliances     $75         $150        $250
Trash/debris          $75         $150        $250
Other nuisances       $75         $150        $250
Note:
   Cost incurred by the city to abate nuisances will be added to the fines
listed above.
 
   (N)   Lien; charges, costs, penalties, and fees, including administrative
fees.
      (1)   The city shall have a lien against any property or properties
finally determined by the Code Enforcement Officer, the Board or court of
competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the Property Maintenance Code to
secure the payment and recovery of the reasonable value of labor and materials
used to abate the nuisance violation, including fines, charges, costs,
penalties and/or fees, including administrative fees authorized in KRS 82.720.
The lien shall be superior to and have priority over, all other liens on the
property except state, county, school board and city taxes.
      (2)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The
lien shall be noticed to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest, at the statutory rate of 8% per annum thereafter pursuant to KRS
360.010 prior to obtaining judgment upon same and shall bear interest, at the
rate of 12% per annum thereafter pursuant to KRS 360.040 after entry of
judgment, until paid.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (N)(1) of this
section, the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all fines, charges, costs, penalties and/or fees,
including administrative fees assessed for the violation and for all charges
and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
Property Maintenance Code. The city may bring a civil action against the person
and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
      (4)   All charges for violations of the Property Maintenance Code levied
by the Code Enforcement Board remaining unpaid after they become due shall be
charged interest at 8% per year until paid in full. The due date for charges
shall be 16 calendar days for the date that the person found to be in violation
is so notified by the Board that a fine and charge has been assessed by the
Board. Any due date falling on a weekend or holiday shall result in payment
being due the next business day.
      (5)   Charges for any violation may be placed on the next occurring
utility bill sent to the violator as a convenience for payment. Should any
charge remain outstanding when the violator applies for water service to the
city, such service shall be denied until such time as the charges have been
paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 35.22) (Ord. 122-2006, passed 9-7-2006; Ord. 75-2007, passed 6-
29-2007)
§ 35.27 ASHLAND TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to powers and authorities granted to it by KRS
91A.350, hereby creates and establishes the Ashland Tourist and Convention
Commission as the successor in interest to the Ashland/Boyd County Tourist and
Convention Commission for the purpose of promoting recreational, convention and
tourist activity within the City of Ashland, Kentucky; said Commission to be
governed by KRS 91A.350, 91A.360, 91A.390 and other applicable provisions of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes as they now exist and as they may hereafter be
amended; and said Commission shall, therefore, have all the authority, powers,
duties and obligations granted to it by said statutes and this section.
   (B)   The Ashland Tourist and Convention Commission shall be composed of
seven members to be appointed by the Mayor in the following manner:
      (1)   Two Commissioners from a list submitted by the local city motel and
hotel association;
      (2)   One Commissioner from a list submitted by the local county hotel
and motel association, provided that if only one local hotel and motel
association exists which covers both the City of Ashland and Boyd County, then
three Commissioners shall be appointed from a list submitted by it. If no
formal local city or county hotel and motel association is in existence upon
the establishment of the Commission or upon the expiration of the term of a
Commissioner appointed pursuant to this section, then up to three Commissioners
shall be appointed by the Mayor from persons residing within the city and
representing local hotels or motels. A local city or county hotel and motel
association shall not be required to be affiliated with the Kentucky Hotel and
Motel Association to be recognized as the official local city or county hotel
and motel association;
      (3)   One Commissioner from a list submitted by the local restaurant
association or associates. If no formal local restaurant association or
associations exist upon the establishment of a commission or upon the
expiration of the term of a Commissioner appointed pursuant to this section,
then one Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor from persons residing
within the City of Ashland and representing a local restaurant. A local
restaurant association or associations shall not be required to be affiliated
with the Kentucky Restaurant Association to be recognized as the official local
restaurant association or associations;
      (4)   One Commissioner from a list submitted by the Ashland Alliance (the
local Chamber of Commerce). If no local Chamber of Commerce is in existence
upon the establishment of a commission or upon the expiration of the term of a
Commissioner appointed pursuant to this section, then one Commissioner shall be
appointed by the Mayor from persons residing within the City of Ashland and
representing local businesses; and
      (5)   Two Commissioners by the Mayor.
   (C)   The Commissioners appointed individually by the Mayor shall, pursuant
to division (B)(5) of this section, each have an initial term of three years.
The Commissioner appointed from nominees submitted by the Ashland Alliance (the
local Chamber of Commerce) and from a list of nominees submitted by the local
restaurant association shall each have an initial term of two years. The
remaining Commissioners shall be appointed for an initial term of one year. All
subsequent terms of all Commissioners shall be for a term of three years.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner that
original appointments are made.
   (E)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a
Treasurer and may employ such personnel and make such contracts as are
necessary to effectively carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390. The
Commission may employ an Executive Director or Chief Executive Officer. Any
Executive Director or Chief Executive Officer so employed shall be a resident
of Ashland, Kentucky, or become a resident of Ashland, Kentucky within 90 days
of employment, and shall maintain residency in the city for the duration of his
or her employment. Contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the
procurement of promotional services, advertising services and other services
and materials relating to the promotion of tourist and convention business;
provided, contracts of the type enumerated shall be made only with persons,
organizations and firms with experience and qualifications for providing
promotional services and materials such as advertising firms, chambers of
commerce, publishers and printers.
   (F)   The books of the Commission shall be audited by an independent auditor
who shall make a report to the Commission, to the organizations submitting
names from which Commission members are selected, to the Mayor and Board of
Commissioners of the city not less than annually.
   (G)   The Commission shall annually submit to the Board of City
Commissioners a request for funds for the operation of the Commission for the
ensuing year. The Board of City Commissioners shall include the Commission in
its annual budget and shall provide for the operation of the Commission by
imposing a transient room tax, not to exceed 3% of the rent for every occupancy
of a suite, room or rooms, charged by all persons, companies, corporations or
other like or similar persons, groups or organizations doing business as motor
courts, motels, hotels, inns, bed and breakfasts, Airbnb or like or similar
accommodations businesses.
   (H)   A transient room tax of 3% is hereby imposed and levied on the rate,
rent or other charge for every occupancy of a suite, room or rooms, let or
rented by any and all persons, companies, corporations or other like or similar
persons, groups or organizations doing business as motor courts, motels,
hotels, inns, bed and breakfasts, Airbnb or like or similar accommodations
businesses in the city. Transient room taxes shall not apply to the rental or
leasing of an apartment supplied by an individual or business that regularly
holds itself out as exclusively providing apartments. APARTMENT means a room or
set of rooms, in an apartment building, fitted especially with a kitchen and
usually leased as a dwelling for a minimum period of 30 days or more.
   (I)   Provisions for administration of the transient room tax.
      (1)   All persons, companies, corporations or other like or similar
persons, groups or organizations doing business as motor courts, motels,
hotels, inns or like or similar accommodations businesses in the city shall
file a monthly return with the license fee administrator for the city, by the
twentieth day of the following month. If the twentieth day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or a legal holiday, the report shall be due by the next regular working
day. Payment of the tax shall accompany the return.
      (2)   The tax on motels and hotels within the city shall be made payable
to the City of Ashland Cashier.
      (3)   A certified copy of the sales and use tax return shall be attached
to the monthly return.
      (4)   A collection fee in the amount of 3% of the first $1,000 and 2.25%
of the tax in excess of $1,000 will be retained by the city on its respective
collections.
      (5)   A penalty of 10% will be assessed on any unpaid tax which is not
paid by the due date.
      (6)   Interest computed at the legal rate on judgments in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be assessed on any unpaid tax which is not paid
by the due date.
      (7)   It will be the responsibility of the taxpayer to maintain books,
records and papers in support of all amounts reported on the monthly return.
      (8)   Any taxpayer who fails to keep books, records and papers will be
assessed a penalty not exceeding $10 for each day such taxpayer fails to
maintain books, records and papers.
      (9)   The city will be permitted to examine the books, records and papers
of the taxpayer upon notification in writing to the taxpayer.
      (10)   Any taxpayer who shall refuse to permit the city or any authorized
agent of the city to examine the books, records and papers of the taxpayer will
be assessed a penalty not exceeding $10 for each day the taxpayer fails to
permit examination of any books, records and papers.
   (J)   A portion of the money collected from the imposition of any such
transient room tax, as determined by the Board of City Commissioners, may be
used to finance the cost of acquisition, construction, operation and
maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion of tourist and
convention business and shall include athletic stadiums. The balance of the
money collected from the imposition of any such transient room tax shall be
used for the purposes set forth in KRS 91A.350. Proceeds from any such
transient room tax may not be used to provide a subsidy in any form to any
hotel, motel or restaurant. Money not expended by the Commission during any
fiscal year shall be used to make up a part of the Commission’s budget for its
next fiscal year.
   (K)   All persons, companies, corporations or other like or similar persons,
groups or organizations doing business as motor courts, motels, hotels, inns,
bed and breakfasts, Airbnb or like or similar accommodations businesses shall
collect and pay said transient room tax to the city.
   (L)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 35.24) (Ord. 125-2009, passed 9-17-2009; Ord. 6-2010, passed 1-
21-2010; Ord. 112, 2019, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 35.28 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION/CEMETERY DIVISION.
   (A) The Cemetery Division is created in the Department of Parks and
Recreation. The Parks and Recreation Department shall assume the responsibility
for the operation and maintenance of the Ashland Cemetery located on Belmont
Street and all properties related thereto under this Division. The Division
shall consist of employees as shall be approved by the Mayor and Board of City
Commissioners.
   (B)   On matters relating to the Cemetery Division, the Department of Parks
and Recreation shall coordinate efforts with the other departments of the city
with the direction of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 35.25) (Ord. 125-2009, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 35.29 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   There is created and established a Cemetery Board. The Board shall
have at least five and no more than seven members to be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Board of City Commissioners. Members of the Cemetery
Board shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   The members of the Cemetery Board shall be appointed for four-year
terms with the original Board to consist of those final members of the Board of
Trustees of the Ashland Cemetery Company who are willing to serve. Appointments
made to fill an unexpired term shall be made for the remainder of the unexpired
term. The term of service shall be four years with the original Board appointed
to staggering terms. One of the members of the Board shall be a funeral
director from the funeral homes located within the city with this slot rotated
among such funeral homes.
   (C)   Absence from more than two consecutive meetings may constitute cause
for removal from office. Any member of the Cemetery Board may be removed by
majority vote of the members of the Board of City Commissioners.
   (D)   The Cemetery Board shall act with the City Manager, the Parks and
Recreation Director and the Mayor and Board of City Commissioners in the
interest of the lot owners of the cemetery and the community. The Board shall
generally assist in the oversight of the operation and maintenance of the
cemetery. The Board’s action shall be subject to its final action being
approved or set aside by the Board of City Commissioners.
   (E)   The Cemetery Board shall establish such rules and regulations as it
deems necessary for the conduct of cemetery business. The Cemetery Board shall
fix the time and place for holding of its meetings. The Cemetery Board shall,
subject to review by the Finance Director, set fees relating to the purchase of
lots, crypts and niches of the cemetery as well as opening and closing charges.
Times that the cemetery gates will be open and other matters relating to the
day to day operation of the cemetery shall be set by the Parks and Recreation
Director.
   (F)   All financial operations, including accounts receivable and payable,
shall be performed through methods established by the Finance Director and be
handled directly by employees of the Finance Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.26) (Ord. 125-2009, passed 9-17-2009; Ord. 6-2010, passed 1-
21-2010)
§ 35.30 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A) Pursuant to the provisions set forth and established by KRS Chapter 80,
there is hereby created and established within the city the Housing Authority
of Ashland. The Authority shall consist of five members composed of the Mayor
of the city, acting ex officio, and four members appointed by the Mayor subject
to the approval of the Board of Commissioners. The Authority shall be and
constitute a body corporate under the name of the Housing Authority of Ashland
with power to contract and be contracted with, sue or be sued, and to adopt a
seal and alter it at will. The Authority shall be clothed with all the powers
and shall perform all the duties imposed upon it by KRS Chapter 80, and the
various and several subsections thereof.
   (B)   Each appointee to the Authority shall be at least 25 years of age and
a bona fide resident of the city for at least one year preceding his or her
appointment. Members shall be a paid or unpaid officer or employee of the city.
No more than two appointees shall be affiliated with the same political party.
Each appointee shall serve for a period of four years and until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 35.27) (Ord. 29-1963, passed 5-27-1963; Res. 4-70, passed 6-9-
1970)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Editor’s note:
   A copy of all personnel policies and procedures and other personnel
regulations is available in the office of the Human Resources Director/City
Clerk during regular office hours.
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Fiscal year
   
37.002   Collection of school taxes; exemption
   
37.003   Delinquent tax collection
   
37.004   Notice of sale of tax bill to be provided
   
37.005   Tax incentive in enterprise zones
   
37.006   Ad valorem taxes
   
37.007   Fiscal note required for approval of expenditure of city funds
City Depositories
   
37.020   Definition
   
37.021   Designation of banks as depositories
   
37.022   Banks required to give security
   
37.023   Opening of deposit box containing collateral bonds
Procurement Regulations
   
37.035   Adoption
Industrial Revenue Bonds
   
37.050   Adoption of guidelines
   
37.051   Scope of regulations; policies
   
37.052   Staff review of application
   
37.053   Application
   
37.054   Review of application
   
37.055   Inducement ordinance and memorandum of agreement
   
37.056   Bond ordinance approval
   
37.057   Duration of procedure
Investment Policy
   
37.070   General
   
37.071   Scope
   
37.072   Adoption
   
37.073   Objectives
   
37.074   Authority
   
37.075   Prudent person rule
   
37.076   Authorized investments
   
37.077   Diversification of investments
   
37.078   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
37.079   Safekeeping and custody
   
37.080   Collateral
   
37.081   Reporting
   
37.082   Audit
Economic Development Incentives Program
   
37.095   Definitions
   
37.096   Purposes; goals; objectives
   
37.097   Creation of business growth and development program
   
37.098   Development incentive
   
37.099   Business Growth and Development Program Committee
   
37.100   State incentive and financial programs
   
37.101   Application and review procedure
   
37.102   Events of default
   
37.103   Remedies
Cross-reference:
   Transient room tax, see §
35.27
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 and terminate on June 30.
(Prior Code, § 37.001)
§ 37.002 COLLECTION OF SCHOOL TAXES; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Reasonable expenses not to exceed the actual costs of collection
incurred by the city for the administration or collection of the school taxes
authorized by KRS 160.605 through 160.611, 160.613 through 160.617 and 160.621
through 160.633 shall be reimbursed by the Board of Education of the city
independent school district on a monthly basis or on such basis as may be
agreed upon by the Board of Education and the city. Such expenses shall be
borne by the Board of Education on a basis proportionate to the revenue
received by the Board.
   (B)   The property of the UK King’s Daughters of the city, located at the
corner of 22nd Street and Lexington Avenue, is hereby exempted from taxation by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.002)
Statutory reference:
   School tax collection costs, see KRS 160.637
   Exemptions from city taxation, see Ky. Const. § 170 and KRS 90.300
§ 37.003 DELINQUENT TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Delinquent Tax Collector appointed by the
city from time to time to collect delinquent taxes due and owing the city.
   (B)   The official bond of the Delinquent Tax Collector shall be the same as
that fixed for said office by §
31.001, which is now fixed at the penal sum of $5,000, said bond to be approved
by the Board of Commissioners of the city.
   (C)   The Delinquent Tax Collector shall receive by way of compensation a
commission on all taxes collected, as follows: 50% of the first $50 of any tax
bill, plus 25% of any excess over and above the first $50.
   (D)   Immediately upon the effective date of appointment, the Delinquent Tax
Collector shall begin to collect delinquent taxes due and payable in all years
not barred by the statute of limitations. During the term of office, the
Delinquent Tax Collector shall collect taxes subsequently becoming due and
payable and thereafter delinquent in all years not barred by the statute of
limitations.
(Prior Code, § 37.003) (Ord. 28-1982, passed 5-6-1982)
§ 37.004 NOTICE OF SALE OF TAX BILL TO BE PROVIDED.
   At the conclusion of the city’s annual tax sale, the City Cashier shall
notify by mail, at the last address known to the Cashier, any delinquent
property taxpayer of the sale of his or her delinquent tax bill to a third
party purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 37.004) (Ord. 9-1985, passed 2-19-1985)
§ 37.005 TAX INCENTIVE IN ENTERPRISE ZONES.
   (A)   The following incentive is established relating to qualified property
located within the city enterprise zone. The city sets the city’s annual ad
valorem property tax rate applicable to qualified property within the zone at
$0.001 upon each $100 of the value involving improvements, additions or new
construction resulting in an increase in assessed value or tangible personal
property created from such expansion; this tax being considered to include real
property, personal property, and inventory. This rate applies only to new
businesses and new expansion of existing businesses located within the city
enterprise zone and qualifying under rules and regulations applying to that
zone. This tax rate shall not apply to special assessments, flood wall taxes
and school taxes. Any property or project hereafter benefitting from tax
incremental financing pursuant to KRS 99.610 to 99.680 by action of the Board
of City Commissioners shall be ineligible for the incentive created hereunder.
The regular tax rate shall apply to such qualifying property or project.
   (B)   The incentive created under division (A) of this section shall apply
to businesses upon proof that the business is responsible to pay all property
taxes on the business premises.
   (C)   The incentive created under division (A) of this section shall affect
each qualified property within the zone for a period of five years from the
date of qualification. The incentive shall, however, expire February 1, 2004.
(Prior Code, § 37.005) (Ord. 153-1984, passed 12-26-1984; Ord. 38-1988, passed
5-10-1988; Ord. 90-1986, passed 9-9-1986; Ord. 42-1996, passed 5-2-1996)
Cross-reference:
   For a list of ordinances establishing enterprise zones, see
TSO IV (City Development)
§ 37.006 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   The city levies ad valorem taxes upon real estate, personal property,
franchises, bank stocks and shares.
(Prior Code, § 37.006)
Cross-reference:
   For a list of ordinances by passage date, see
TSO XVIII (Ad Valorem Taxes)
§ 37.007 FISCAL NOTE REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL OF EXPENDITURE OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Every ordinance, resolution, consent item, contract approval or
amendment thereto, (“a measure”) the purpose of which is to expend any city
funds, increase or decrease the revenue of the city, or to require the
expenditure of its funds, either directly or indirectly, shall have prepared
for it, prior to the first reading or adoption of the same, a brief explanatory
statement or note (fiscal note) which shall include a reliable estimation of
the fiscal impact of such measure upon the city’s finances and no such measure
shall be adopted until a fiscal note has been prepared and published as
provided herein.
   (B)   The fiscal note shall be prepared by the responsible director and
verified for accuracy by the city’s Finance Director or his or her designee and
shall be a public record published as an addendum to the agenda of the meeting
at which a measure to which it relates will be considered.
   (C)   Fiscal notes shall include a brief analysis of the impact of the
measure on the city budget including any changes in expenditures or revenue and
the source of funds to be utilized. With respect to an ordinance authorizing
capital expenditures or appropriating funds for capital expenditures, the
fiscal note shall specify, by year, the principal and interest payments
required to fund such expenditure and increased operating costs, by year, shall
be specified.
   (D)   The fiscal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as it
may be, and shall provide as reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible
under the circumstances. The fiscal note shall include both the immediate
effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of
the measure.
   (E)   If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar
estimate is possible, the fiscal note shall contain a statement to that effect,
setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can be given.
   (F)   No comment or opinion shall be included in the fiscal note with regard
to the merits of the measure for which the fiscal note is prepared; however,
technical or mechanical defects may be noted.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a measure may be
considered and adopted in the absence of a fiscal note if an emergency
requiring waiver of the fiscal note requirement is declared by vote of two-
thirds or more of the members of the Board of Commissioners present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 37.007) (Ord. 20-2019, passed 3-14-2019)
CITY DEPOSITORIES
§ 37.020 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLATERAL BONDS. Direct obligations of die United States government, direct
obligations of the city or direct obligations and bridge revenue bonds of the
state, and no other, and in the following proportions: At least 66.67% in
market value of the whole of the bonds shall be United States government bonds
or United States treasury notes.
(Prior Code, § 37.020)
§ 37.021 DESIGNATION OF BANKS AS DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   The City Manager and the Director of Finance have designated Citizens
Bank of Kentucky, City National Bank, Community Trust Bank, Fifth Third Bank,
Kentucky Farmers Bank, Peoples Bank, PNC Bank and Town Square Bank, all of this
city, as depositories of the public funds of the city, as well as FSA Bancorp,
U.S. Bank and other institutions that may be required as related to bond
issues, and this designation is hereby approved and confirmed.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to execute a contract, for and
on behalf of the city, with each of the banks designated in division (A) of
this section, for the deposit and control of the collateral bonds in accordance
with the terms of this subchapter. When so executed by both parties, the
contract together with this subchapter shall constitute a binding contract
between the banks and the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.021) (Ord. 26-1967, passed 9-26-1967; Ord. 17-2018, passed 1-
25-2018)
§ 37.022 BANKS REQUIRED TO GIVE SECURITY.
   (A)   (1)   Before the Director of Finance shall deposit any of the funds of
the city in Citizens Bank of Kentucky, City National Bank, Community Trust
Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Kentucky Farmers Bank, Peoples Bank, PNC Bank and Town
Square Bank, all of this city, as well as FSA Bancorp, U.S. Bank and any other
institutions that may be required as-related to bond issues, any such bank
shall execute collateral in the amount of deposits with good and sufficient
surety, payable to the city, to indemnify the city from loss by reason of the
public funds being deposited therein. The bank, in its discretion, in lieu of
such an indemnifying bond, may pledge collateral bonds, as defined in §
37.020, as collateral security for such deposit or deposits of public funds
deposited with the bank, which collateral bonds shall have a market value at
all times of not less than deposits, and which shall be supplemented by
additional collateral bonds from time to time, as may be required to maintain
the cash market value of all of the same at all times in an amount equal to, or
in excess of, amount of deposits.
      (2)   The city requires deposits to be 100% secured by collateral valued
at market or par, whichever is lower, less the amount of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation insurance (FDIC). The total of the bank balances shall be
insured or collateralized with securities held by the city’s agents in the
city’s name, or by letters of credit.
   (B)   Should the bank elect to deposit collateral bonds as herein provided,
then, and in that event, the collateral bonds so deposited as collateral surety
shall be, and shall remain in the absolute control of the city, subject only to
the limitations and provisions set forth in §§
37.021,
37.022 and
37.023.
   (C)   The collateral provided for in this subchapter shall be held by the
city to indemnify it from any loss it may sustain by reason of the deposit of
any of its public funds in the bank. The proceeds of sale of the collateral
shall be applied by the city and the bank as a credit on the city’s deposit in
addition to any liquidating dividends the city would otherwise have been
entitled to receive, if the deposit should have been unsecured.
(Prior Code, § 37.022) (Ord. 26-1967, passed 9-26-1967; Ord. 92-1987, passed 9-
1-1987; Ord. 17-2018, passed 1-25-2018)
§ 37.023 OPENING OF DEPOSIT BOX CONTAINING COLLATERAL BONDS.
   (A)   The boxes referred to in §
37.022 may be opened by the following persons, and no other, in the following
manner and no other, for the following purposes and no other:
      (1)   The City Manager and the Finance Director in the presence of each
other, and both in the presence of a duly authorized officer of the bank, for
the purpose of taking inventory of the collateral bonds, from time to time,
when and as the City Manager shall or may direct;
      (2)   The City Manager and the Finance Director in the presence of each
other, and both in the presence of a duly authorized officer of the bank, for
the purpose of clipping matured interest coupons from the collateral bonds,
from time to time, when and as a duly authorized officer of the bank shall or
may direct. The matured interest coupons when so clipped shall be released ipso
facto as collateral hereunder and shall revert to the exclusive control and use
of the bank;
      (3)   The City Manager and the Finance Director, each in the presence of
the other and both in the presence of a duly authorized officer of the bank for
the purpose of withdrawing therefrom any matured collateral bonds therein
deposited and substituting therefor other collateral bonds equivalent to, or
exceeding in market value those so withdrawn, from time to time, when and as a
duly authorized officer of the bank shall or may direct;
      (4)   The City Manager and the Finance Director, in the presence of each
other, and without interference from any officer or agent of the bank, or from
any receiver, representative of depositors or stockholders, bank examiner or
agent of any or either of them, in the event that the bank for any reason shall
have been and remained closed for a period of at least ten consecutive business
days. In that event, the City Manager and the Finance Director, on behalf of
the city, may immediately enter on the premises of the bank, open the safety
deposit box and withdraw therefrom any or all of the collateral bonds. With the
consent of the Board of Commissioners, the City Manager and the Finance
Director may sell so many of same as they, in their allowance, may deem
necessary for the protection of the city from loss by reason of the city’s
deposit of public funds in the bank; and
      (5)   Any national bank examiner in the exercise of his or her duty as
such.
   (B)   In case the City Manager and/or the Finance Director are unable to
function in the capacities listed in this section the following individuals
shall serve as alternates: the Assistant Finance Director for the Finance
Director; and the City Clerk for the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 37.023)
PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS
§ 37.035 ADOPTION.
   The Procurement Regulations for the City of Ashland, Kentucky, April 2023
which are attached to Ord. 49, 2023 and made a part hereof by reference, are
hereby adopted as fully to all intents and purposes as if copies at length in
words and figures herein. (Prior Code, § 37.040) (Ord. 49, 2023, passed 4-27-
2023)
INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BONDS
§ 37.050 ADOPTION OF GUIDELINES.
   The Board of Commissioners does hereby approve and adopt the set of local
guidelines and procedures governing city processing and approval of
applications for industrial revenue bonds.
(Prior Code, § 37.085) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Designation of downtown business district for issuance of industrial revenue
bonds, see
TSO IV, Ord. 105-1983
§ 37.051 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS; POLICIES.
   (A)   These guidelines and procedures shall apply to any application to the
city for projects in which industrial revenue bond financing is authorized by
KRS Chapter 103.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to approve the issuance of industrial
revenue bonds to assist projects which will benefit the entire community, and
for which other forms of financing are not feasible or desirable.
   (C)   Although industrial revenue bonds do not constitute an indebtedness of
the city, and are paid solely from the revenues derived from the specific
project, since the success or failure of each bond issue may affect future bond
issue ratings of the city, the merits of each application will be carefully
examined.
   (D)   Eligibility of projects for industrial revenue bond financing shall be
governed by applicable state and federal law, regulations and procedures
concerning the issuance of industrial revenue bonds. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to establish the necessary contacts with the Kentucky Bond
Oversight Committee, Kentucky Development Finance Authority, 24th Floor,
Capitol Plaza Tower, (502) 564-4554, Frankfort, Kentucky, 40601.
   (E)   The city encourages the use of local architects, engineers, attorneys
and contractors in the development of a project financed with industrial
revenue bonds.
   (F)   The applicant’s bond counsel is required to be registered with the
Municipal Bond Buyers Index of Municipal Attorneys of the United States and is
subject to the approval of the city.
   (G)   The city requires a knowledgeable representative of the applicant to
be present at all hearings and at times reasonably requested, including all
phases of the Board of City Commissioner’s meetings for discussion,
consideration and possible approval.
   (H)   The city reserves the right to select a bond counsel and/or fiscal
agent to act on behalf of the city to review a project for the city, such costs
to be borne by the applicant.
   (I)   The city considers approval of a request for industrial revenue bond
financing a discretionary and not a mandatory action on its part. Additionally,
the city reserves the right to reject any or all applications for industrial
revenue bond financing.
   (J)   Regardless of the financing mechanism utilized in the bond structure,
the city shall require full taxes or an equal amount in the form of a payment
in lieu of taxes.
   (K)   All timing requirements of the city’s procedural guidelines shall be
followed by each applicant for industrial revenue bonds unless waived by the
City Manager due to the existence of extenuating circumstances.
   (L)   The applicant shall note that the application process does not assure
adoption within any specified time frame other than the city shall deal with
the application in a reasonably prudent manner.
   (M)   The city reserves the right to impose additional requirements to the
terms of any bond issue, whenever deemed in the city’s discretion such terms
are necessary for interest of the community.
(Prior Code, § 37.086) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 37.052 STAFF REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall establish a review by city staff of all applications
for the issuance of industrial revenue bonds.
   (B)   The staff members responsible for review of applications shall include
(and may be supplemented from time to time by the City Manager) the following:
the City Manager; Economic Development Director; Planning and Community
Development Director; Finance Director; and Legal Department representative.
   (C)   The staff review will begin after submission of the documents required
in §
37.053.
   (D)   The applicant shall provide materials necessary to determine that the
project meets requirements of law:
      (1)   The demonstration of the need for the project within the community;
      (2)   The need for industrial revenue bond financing of the project;
      (3)   The effect of bond financing of this project on existing businesses
within the community;
      (4)   Financial feasibility and security of the bonds; and
      (5)   Financial structure of the bonds (that is, leasehold, trustee and
the like).
   (E)   Consideration may be given the policy statements formulated by
Kentucky’s Bond Oversight Committee.
   (F)   Any lack of equity in a project by the applicant may be given a
negative consideration in the review process.
   (G)   The City Manager will establish the staff review meeting schedule.
   (H)   At least five working days prior to the beginning of the staff review
process, a notice describing the application to be considered will be provided
by the Chamber of Commerce of Greenup and Boyd Counties.
(Prior Code, § 37.087) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 37.053 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant interested in exploring the feasibility of industrial
revenue bond financing of a project should first contact the City Manager or
his or her designee at least five working days in advance of the submission of
the application so that adequate staff review and procedural scheduling may be
assured in the processing of the application.
   (B)   Formal negotiations for industrial revenue bond approval are initiated
when the applicant submits a detailed proposal in the form of a letter of
inducement to the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (1)   The letter of inducement should be submitted at least ten working
days prior to the submission of the inducement ordinance and agreement.
      (2)   The letter of inducement should contain:
         (a)   An estimation of benefits of the community, such as benefits to
consumers of the project’s products or services, and the employment impact,
including both jobs retained and new jobs created;
         (b)   An itemized cost/benefit analysis, detailing what the bonds will
be used to finance and the anticipated benefits to accrue, and describing the
impact of the project on the gross revenues of the company and on business
license fees and property tax revenue to the city; and
         (c)   A description of the public service impact of the project,
including the public utilities and services available to and needed at the
project site.
   (C)   The letter of inducement is to be accompanied by a completed
industrial revenue bond application on application forms approved by the
Commission. The applicant should include with his or her completed application
forms:
      (1)   An independent audit and certified financial statement or review
financial statement of the applicant(s) for the most current complete year,
prepared and certified by an independent certified public accounting firm;
audited statements prepared by an independent certified public accounting firm
for the last three completed years are preferred, and may be requested by staff
during its review process or by the Commission;
      (2)   A letter from any proposed purchaser of the bonds, if known at the
time of the application, or if not known, as soon as possible thereafter,
confirming intent to purchase the issue and giving evidence of the purchaser’s
financial ability to purchase the bonds; and financial statements of the
purchaser(s) for the last three completed years either audited or prepared by
an independent certified public accountant, may be requested by the staff or
the Commission; and
      (3)   The financial disclosure information contained in divisions (C)(1)
and (C)(2) of this section shall be treated by the city as confidential. The
confidential financial information shall not be treated as part of the public
record, nor shall it be publicly disclosed unless by agreement of the
applicant.
   (D)   Copies of the letter of inducement and completed application will be
submitted for staff review and circulated to the Commission.
   (E)   The letter of inducement and application with all attachments shall be
submitted with an original and 20 copies to the City Manager as specified in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (F)   An application fee of $2,500 must accompany each application to
partially reimburse the city for costs of handling the application. If bonds
are issued, this fee shall be considered as a portion of the issuing fee.
   (G)   The city requires an issuing fee of 0.25% of the gross principal
amount of the bond issue to satisfy all cost, including attorney fees, incurred
by the city in conjunction with the issuance of the bond. On refinancing issues
the principal amount shall be the amount refinanced.
(Prior Code, § 37.088) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 37.054 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   After the City Manager or his or her designee has determined that the
application is complete, the application will be reviewed by the staff
according to the policies and procedures described in §
37.053.
   (B)   The City Manager shall schedule public hearings with reasonable notice
to obtain input from interested parties.
   (C)   Thereafter, the City Manager will notify the applicant and Commission
of the results of the review process with any desired modifications.
(Prior Code, § 37.089) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 37.055 INDUCEMENT ORDINANCE AND MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The applicant’s bond counsel shall prepare a draft of the inducement
ordinance and agreement, to be submitted to the City Manager or his or her
designee five working days prior to the meeting of the Commission at which the
ordinance is to be considered for first reading.
   (B)   After receipt of the ordinance and agreement, the city will notify the
Chamber of Commerce of Boyd and Greenup Counties prior to the meeting at which
the Commission is to consider first reading to the inducement contract and
memorandum of agreement.
   (C)   All required documents described herein are to be submitted with an
original and 14 copies to the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (D)   The City Manager will place the inducement ordinance and agreement on
the next appropriate agenda of a regular meeting of the Commission.
   (E)   First reading, consideration and possible passage would occur through
normal procedures of the Commission.
   (F)   Once the inducement ordinance is given final approval, it is
anticipated the applicant will begin acquisition, construction, equipment
purchase, or make any other expenditures contemplated by the project.
(Prior Code, § 37.090) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 37.056 BOND ORDINANCE APPROVAL.
   (A)   The final legal step prior to the issuance of industrial revenue bonds
is the passage of a bond ordinance by the city, which, if passed, shall include
the loan agreement between the city and the applicant and all related financial
documents regarding the bonds.
   (B)   The process for bond ordinance approval shall follow the steps and
requirements for the inducement ordinance set out in §
37.055. The applicant’s bond counsel shall prepare a draft of the bond
ordinance and submit it to the City Manager or his or her designee five working
days prior to the Commission meeting at which the ordinance is to be considered
for first reading. The bond ordinance submitted by the applicant should
include, but not be limited to the memorandum of agreement and all other
related documents.
   (C)   Two readings at separate Commission meetings are required for the
passage of the bond ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 37.091) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
§ 37.057 DURATION OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The process requires a minimum of 25 working days to the point the
Commission first considers the inducement ordinance.
   (B)   A schedule of time requirements as follows:
 
Action                                   Time Required
Notice to City Manager of intent to      5 working days prior to submission of
pursue application                       application
Notice to Chamber                        5 working days prior to staff review
Submit inducement letter and application 10 working days prior to submission of
                                         inducement
Submit inducement ordinance              5 days prior to Commission meeting
Submit bond ordinance                    5 days prior to Commission meeting
 
(Prior Code, § 37.092) (Ord. 161-1997, passed 11-20-1997)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 37.070 GENERAL.
   It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with the maximum security of principal
while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming to all
state statutes and city regulations governing the investment of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 37.115) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.071 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city’s annual
audit, the city’s annual comprehensive annual financial report (C.A.F.R.) and
include all monies in the following funds:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Utility Fund;
      (3)   Municipal Aid Road Fund;
      (4)   Community Development Block Grant;
      (5)   Planning and C.D.B.G. Grant Fund;
      (6)   Urban Development Action Grant (U.D.A.G.);
      (7)   Section 8 Housing Program;
      (8)   Mod Rehab Program 1 Fund;
      (9)   Mod Rehab Program 2 Fund;
      (10)   Voucher Program Fund;
      (11)   Floodwall Operating Fund;
      (12)   Downtown Improvement Fund;
      (13)   Ashland Bus System;
      (14)   Recreation Operating Fund;
      (15)   Police and Fire Pension Fund;
      (16)   Utilities Employees Pension Fund;
      (17)   Employees Health Insurance Fund;
      (18)   Ashland Tennis Center;
      (19)   Capital Purchase Improvement Fund; and
      (20)   Any new fund created by governing body.
   (B)   Financial assets of the entity held and invested by trustees or fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the city’s primary investment objectives.
(Prior Code, § 37.116) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.072 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city’s investment policy shall be adopted by order of the Board of
Commissioners and shall become effective on the date set forth in the order.
The policy shall be reviewed annually and revised, as appropriate. Any
amendments to this policy must be made by order of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy
which does not meet the guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from its
provisions. At maturity or liquidation, the monies so invested, if reinvested,
shall be reinvested only in accordance with this policy. The City Manager or
designee may take a reasonable period of time to adjust the existing portfolio
to the provisions of this policy in order to avoid the premature liquidations
of any current investment.
(Prior Code, § 37.117) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.073 OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority are the
following.
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city’s
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return of investment. The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city’s investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 37.118) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.074 AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city’s investment program is hereby
delegated to the City Manager or designee. The City Manager or designee shall
have the authority, subject to the disapproval of the governing body, to
establish additional specific written procedures for the operation of the
investment program which are consistent with this investment policy. The
procedures shall include explicit delegation of authority, if any, to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment
transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and the
procedures established by the City Manager or designee. The City Manager or
designee shall be ultimately responsible for all transactions undertaken and
shall establish a system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate
officials and employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control
public funds arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets or imprudent actions by
officers and employees. The City Manager or designee shall maintain all records
related to the entity’s investment program.
(Prior Code, § 37.119) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.075 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the City Manager or designee in the performance of his
or her duties as manger of the city’s funds shall be evaluated using the
“prudent person” standard. Investments shall be made with judgement and care
under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The City Manager or designee acting in accordance with written
procedures and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security’s performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Prior Code, § 37.120) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.076 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The funds of the city available for investment shall be invested in
accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes only in the
following types of investments:
   (A)   Authorized investment instruments.
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations are subject to repurchase
agreements is taken either or through an authorized custodian;
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   United States Treasury;
         (b)   Export - Import Bank of United States;
         (c)   Farmers Home Administration;
         (d)   Government National Mortgage Corporation; and
         (e)   Merchant Marine Bonds.
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)   Bank of Cooperatives;
         (d)   Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
         (e)   Federal Land Banks;
         (f)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (g)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (h)   Tennessee Valley Authority.
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by KRS
41.240(4);
      (5)   Uncollateralized certificates of deposit issued by any bank or
savings and loan institution rated in one of the three highest categories by a
nationally recognized rating agency;
      (6)   Bankers acceptances for banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency;
      (7)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency;
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and of its agencies and instrumentalities; and
      (9)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
   (B)   Limitations in investment transactions. With regard to the investments
authorized in this subchapter no investment shall be purchased for the city on
a margin basis or through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
(Prior Code, § 37.121) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.077 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price changes, or closing investments prior to maturity due date or
unanticipated cash flow needs. Diversification of the city investment portfolio
by institution, type of investment instrument and term to maturity is the
primary method to minimize investment risk.
   (B)   The city’s funds shall be diversified by security type and
institution. With the exception of fully insured or fully collateralized
investments, and except for authorized investment pools, no more than 15% of
the city’s total investment portfolio shall be invested in a single security
type or with a single financial institution.
   (C)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with the anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash
flow need, the city’s funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than five years from the date of purchase. However, the city may
collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer dated investments not to
exceed ten years, if maturity of the investments are made to coincide as nearly
as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
(Prior Code, § 37.122) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.078 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager or designee shall maintain a list of financial
institutions authorized to provide investment services to the city. In
addition, a list shall be maintained of approved security broker/dealers
selected by creditworthiness, who maintains an office in the Commonwealth.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the City Manager or designee with
information sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution and answer any
and all inquires posed by the City Manager or designee or the governing body,
including the following information:
      (1)   Audited financial statements;
      (2)   Regulatory reports on financial condition;
      (3)   Written memorandum of agreement for the deposit of public funds or
trading resolution, as appropriate;
      (4)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification and
proof of state registration; and
      (5)   Any additional information considered necessary to allow the City
Manager or designee to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of the
city’s funds if the city funds on deposit at any time will exceed 5% of the
institution’s capital stock and surplus.
   (D)   The City Manager or designee shall evaluate the financial capacity and
creditworthiness of the financial institutions and broker/dealers prior to the
placement of the city’s funds with the financial institution. The City Manger
or designee shall conduct an annual review of the financial conditions and
registrations of the financial institutions and broker/dealers and, based on
the review, make any recommendations regarding investment policy or program
changes determined to be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 37.123) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.079 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets shall
be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The City
Manager or designee and any other officers or employees of the city authorized
to engage in investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount established
by the governing body. Collateralized securities, such a repurchase agreements
shall be purchased using the delivery versus payment procedure.
(Prior Code, § 37.124) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.080 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   It is the city’s policy to require that all cash and investments
maintained in any financial institution named as a depository be
collateralized. In order to anticipate market changes and provide a level of
security for all funds, the collateralization level shall be 100% of the market
value of principal, plus accrued interest. Collateral shall be limited to types
of instruments authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS 41.240.
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city
and retained by the City Manager or designee.
(Prior Code, § 37.125) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.081 REPORTING.
   (A)   The City Manager or designee shall prepare and submit to the Board of
Commissioners an annual report regarding the status of the city’s investment
program. As to each investment, the report shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited;
      (2)   Type of investment;
      (3)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable;
      (4)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis;
      (5)   Purchase date, purchase price and maturity date;
      (6)   Current market value of the investment.
   (B)   The annual report shall also summarize recent market conditions,
economic developments and anticipated investment conditions, and indicate any
areas of policy concern and suggested revisions of investment strategies.
Copies of the report shall be submitted to each member of the Board of
Commissioners and the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 37.126) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 37.082 AUDIT.
   In connection with the annual audit of the city’s funds conducted by an
independent certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of
the city’s investment program, including internal controls and procedures, and
results of the review, including recommended changes, shall be included in the
city’s audit.
(Prior Code, § 37.127) (Ord. 169-1994, passed 12-15-1994)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM
§ 37.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A business entity applying for occupational license fee
withholdings rebate pursuant to this subchapter.
   APPROVED APPLICANT. An applicant approved by the city.
   ASHLAND BUSINESS GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. The Program. The Economic
Development Incentives Program created by this subchapter.
   ASHLAND MAIN STREET AREA. The area designated in Exhibit A to Ord. 2-2014,
passed 12-12-2013.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. A sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, or other similar organization qualified to do business in
the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   COMMITTEE. The Ashland Business Growth and Development Committee.
   DIRECTOR. The Economic Development Director.
   OCCUPATIONAL TAX. The occupational license fee withholdings (payroll tax)
from an employee’s wages, salaries, bonuses or commissions.
(Prior Code, § 37.170) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.096 PURPOSES; GOALS; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that improvement of the quality of life for
citizens in the city is an important public purpose, goal and objective, and
that as part of its effort to meet that objective the city must:
      (1)   Recognize the importance of a growing and expanding economy;
      (2)   Create programs to foster an atmosphere that encourages economic
development; and
      (3)   Provide incentives for the creation of new jobs in the business and
industrial zoned areas of the city.
   (B)   In order to satisfy the needs and take the action identified herein,
the city has determined that it should create a program to offer employee
payroll tax withholdings rebates to job creation prospects on the Ashland
taxable wages directly created by such project.
(Prior Code, § 37.171) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.097 CREATION OF BUSINESS GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
   There is hereby created the Ashland business growth and development program
by which incentives are made available to qualified applicants in the form of
employee occupational withholding tax rebates upon the terms and conditions
established herein.
(Prior Code, § 37.172) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.098 DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVE.
   (A)   Eligible applicants. An applicant shall be eligible for the program
only if:
      (1)   It is a new or existing business entity that owns the property
where the business entity is housed, or possesses the property through a lease
agreement, for the duration of the incentive agreement. Applicants incorporated
as a non-profit are ineligible; and
      (2)   The business must be located within the corporate city limits of
Ashland, observe all applicable zoning, business, and code regulations, and be
current with all taxes, fees, and the like.
   (B)   Employee withholdings incentive payment. The employee occupational tax
incentive payments are designed and intended to provide an incentive to
eligible applicants equal to a portion of employee occupational tax
withholdings payable to the city, which are generated by new employees. To be
eligible for the payment, the applicant must generate a minimum of new Ashland
payroll as defined below. If approved, the applicant may seek a rebate equal to
up to 50% of the employees’ withholdings generated by new jobs otherwise owed
to the city for a period up to ten years as determined by the city. This rebate
is to be applied to the employee occupational tax withholdings payable to the
city only and not for any other taxes or fees payable to the city, Boyd County,
the Ashland School District or to any other taxing agency, district or
authority. It shall be the responsibility of an approved applicant to seek a
rebate:
      (1)   Located in Ashland Main Street Zone: minimum of $250,000 in new
Ashland taxable wages; and
      (2)   Located in other business or industrial zoned areas in the city:
minimum of $2,000,000 in new city taxable wages.
   (C)   Economic development incentive loan. The incentive loan is intended to
provide an incentive to eligible applicants for the creation or retention of
jobs within the city and in circumstances where the proposed project shows a
demonstrated financial gap and that the project would not occur “but for” the
assistance provided through city financial assistance. The maximum amount of
assistance through this loan will not exceed $50,000. The funded project must
either contribute a minimum of one new job per $25,000 borrowed and/or be
instrumental in the retention of jobs that would otherwise be lost. Monies
provided by the program must be used for fixed asset or capital financing.
Loans cannot be used for operating expenses. Applicant must provide a minimum
of 20% equity of total project costs. The city shall not be a primary lender in
the judgment of the Committee. In order to be eligible for a loan under the
program, the project must be substantially funded by the applicant and, where
necessary, commercial loan participation. The amount loaned is a four-year, 48
month forgivable loan and principal balance shall be reduced by 25% each year
from the date of execution.
(Prior Code, § 37.173) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013; Ord. 137, 2022, passed
7-29-2022)
§ 37.099 BUSINESS GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Business Growth and Development Program
Committee composed of five members as follows:
      (1)   City Manager;
      (2)   Economic Development Director;
      (3)   Finance Director;
      (4)   Legal Department; and
      (5)   Member of the Ashland Board of City Commissioners.
   (B)   The Committee shall establish and evaluate terms and conditions for
payroll tax refund applications submitted to it and make a recommendation to
the Board of City Commissioners.
   (C)   The Board of City Commissioners shall review the recommendation from
the Committee and make a final determination, within the parameters outlined in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 37.174) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.100 STATE INCENTIVE AND FINANCIAL PROGRAMS.
   An applicant company that has, or becomes, approved and qualified for
credits or benefits under any Commonwealth incentive or financial program for a
business, division, or location within the city shall not be entitled to any
incentives in addition thereto from the city during the term of its agreement/
program with the Commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 37.175) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.101 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An applicant shall submit to the Director a completed Incentive
Program application (in a form created/revised by the Finance Director/Economic
Development Director), which shall include the following at a minimum:
      (1)   A description of the project, total project cost, sources of
funding and purpose of the incentive application;
      (2)   A five-year pro forma, including the number of new jobs to be
created, the wages, salaries, bonuses and commissions expected to be paid and
the amount of Ashland employee withholdings expected to be generated by the new
jobs;
      (3)   General information about company management capabilities,
including resumes of top management and the company’s marketing strategies;
      (4)   Such financial and non-financial information about the applicant
and/or its principals as is required by this subchapter or as otherwise deemed
necessary by the Director or the Committee; and
      (5)   Certification that the applicant is an equal opportunity employer
and agrees that it shall not discriminate in hiring and employment because of
race, creed, color, national origin, religion, sex, age or disability and that
it shall comply with all federal, state and local equal opportunity policies
and laws to ensure non-discrimination because of race, creed, color, national
origin, religion, sex, age or disability.
   (B)   The Director shall review each application to verify the information
submitted therewith and determine:
      (1)   Whether the application meets the Program eligibility requirements;
      (2)   The accuracy of the factual representations in the application and
the applicant’s employment and financial projections;
      (3)   The amount of the incentive for which the applicant qualifies and
the terms upon which the Director would recommend approval to the Committee;
      (4)   Special credit risks presented by the applicant or the project; and
      (5)   Any and all other matters deemed appropriate to weigh the credit
worthiness of the applicant, the Incentive Program application and the project.
   (C)   The Finance and Economic Development Directors may request additional
information from the applicant at any time, or waive any listed criteria not
believed necessary for consideration of the applicant’s request.
   (D)   After the Director’s review of the application, he or she shall submit
it with his or her recommendations to the Committee for review. The Committee
may request additional information from the applicant at any time. Following
its review, the Committee shall either reject the application or recommend its
approval. The incentive application shall be submitted to the Mayor for final
approval.
   (E)   Upon such approval, the approved applicant and the city shall enter
into a Program agreement which sets forth the terms of the grant of incentive
and the obligations of each party.
(Prior Code, § 37.176) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.102 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.
   The following shall constitute events of default, which may be declared by
the city:
   (A)   Failure of an approved applicant to report to pay employee payroll tax
as required by this subchapter, whether from new jobs or existing jobs;
   (B)   Failure of an approved applicant to satisfy the projected schedule of
employee payroll tax submitted with its Incentive Program application or as set
forth in the Program agreement;
   (C)   Failure of an approved applicant to pay any tax, license fee, penalty
or other charge or obligation to the city pursuant to the code of ordinances;
   (D)   Failure of an approved applicant to comply with any term, condition or
obligation imposed by this subchapter;
   (E)   Failure of an approved applicant to comply with any term, condition or
obligation of the Inventive Program agreement; and
   (F)   The making of any material misrepresentation of any statement or fact
on an approved applicant’s Incentive Program application or supporting
documents, whether or not relied upon by the city, Committee or Director.
(Prior Code, § 37.177) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 37.103 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In the event of a default under a Program agreement, the city may
suspend the participation of the approved applicant until such time as the
default is cured or the city may terminate the agreement with prior written
notice to the approved applicant with 30 days to correct the default event. If
the approval is terminated, the city may pursue remedies available to the city
under state law and pursuant to the terms of the parties’ Program agreement.
   (B)   The failure of the city to declare a default in any event thereof
shall not constitute a waiver thereof.
   (C)   The remedies contained in the Program agreement shall be cumulative
and in addition to any other remedy authorized by law. The remedies may be
exercised separately, together or in any combination thereof, and any such
exercise shall not constitute a waiver of any remaining remedies.
   (D)   No discharge in bankruptcy or other bankruptcy proceedings shall
affect the approved applicant’s obligation to comply with this subchapter,
except as provided by federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 37.178) (Ord. 2-2014, passed 12-12-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   STORM WATER SYSTEM
      
53.   FATS, OILS AND GREASE POLICY
      
54.   GARBAGE
      
55.   GENERAL UTILITY REGULATIONS; BILLING
CHAPTER 50: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose and policy
   
50.002   Administration
   
50.003   Abbreviations
   
50.004   Definitions
   
50.005   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
50.006   Conflict
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
50.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
50.021   Use of public sewers
   
50.022   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.023   Building sewers and connections
   
50.024   Sanitary sewer extension policies
   
50.025   Sewer service rates
   
50.026   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.027   State pretreatment standards
   
50.028   Pollutant discharge limits
   
50.029   Right of revision
   
50.030   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
50.045   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.046   Additional pretreatment measures
   
50.047   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
50.048   Hauled wastewater
Individual Wastewater Discharge; General Permits
   
50.060   Wastewater analysis
   
50.061   Individual wastewater discharge permit and general permit requirement
   
50.062   Existing connections
   
50.063   New connections
   
50.064   Application contents
   
50.065   General permits
   
50.066   Application signatories and certifications
   
50.067   Permit decisions
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits; General Permits
   
50.080   Permit duration
   
50.081   Permit contents
   
50.082   Permit issuance process
   
50.083   Permit modification
   
50.084   Permit transfer
   
50.085   Permit revocation
   
50.086   Permit reissuance
   
50.087   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Backflow Prevention Policies
   
50.100   Prevention program and claims process policy
Reporting Requirements
   
50.115   Baseline monitoring reports
   
50.116   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
50.117   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
50.118   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.119   Reports of changed conditions
   
50.120   Reports of potential problems
   
50.121   Reports from unpermitted users
   
50.122   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
50.123   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
50.124   Analytical requirements
   
50.125   Sample collection
   
50.126   Date of receipt of reports
   
50.127   Recordkeeping
   
50.128   Certification statements
   
50.129   Confidential information
   
50.130   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
50.131   Signatory requirements
   
50.132   Pretreatment enforcement response plan
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
50.145   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
50.146   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
50.147   Access to easements
   
50.148   Safety
   
50.149   Search warrants
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
50.160   Performance bonds
   
50.161   Liability insurance
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
50.175   Upset
   
50.176   Prohibited discharge standards
   
50.177   Bypass
Charges; Fees
   
50.190   Fees
   
50.191   Industrial pretreatment charges
   
50.192   Sewer district fees
   
50.193   Other charges
   
50.194   Adjustments
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
50.205   Notification of violation
   
50.206   Consent orders
   
50.207   Show cause hearing
   
50.208   Compliance orders
   
50.209   Cease and desist orders
   
50.210   Administrative fines
   
50.211   Emergency suspensions
   
50.212   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
50.225   Injunctive relief
   
50.226   Civil penalties
   
50.227   Criminal prosecution
   
50.228   Remedies nonexclusive
Cross-reference:
   General utility regulations; billing, see
Chapter 55
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the City of Ashland, Kentucky and enables the city to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water
Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40
C.F.R. part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits or general permits; provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement
activities; establishes administrative review procedures and requires user
reporting.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Director of Engineering and
Utilities shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Director of
Engineering and Utilities may be delegated by the Director of Engineering and
Utilities to a duly authorized City of Ashland employee.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
BMP    Best management practice
BMR    Baseline monitoring report
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
NSCIU  Non-significant categorical industrial user
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant industrial user
SNC    Significant noncompliance
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit or
general permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) of this
definition, may designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the City of Ashland.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT or BMR. A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 C.F.R. § 403.12 (b)).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
50.020(A) and (B) (40 C.F.R. part 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, water and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §
50.023.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category
of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405
through 471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CITY. The City of Ashland, Kentucky.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). (Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act) enacted by Pub. Law No. 92-500, October 18, 1972. 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq: as amended by Pub. Law No. 95-217, December 28, 1977; Pub. Law No. 97-117,
December 29, 1981; Pub. Law No. 97-440, January 8, 1983, and Pub. Law No. 100-
04, February 4, 1987.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and storm
water or surface water.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF). Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 C.F.R.
part 403.7).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   CONCENTRATION BASED LIMIT. A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Ashland, Kentucky.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND UTILITIES. The City of Ashland, Department of
Engineering and Utilities, including all the wastewater collection and
treatment facilities, acting by, and through the office of the Director of
Engineering and Utilities.
   DILUTE WASTESTREAMS. Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact
cooling water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from
regulation in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or
only trace amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING AND UTILITIES (DIRECTOR). The official responsible
for administering the City of Ashland Department of Engineering and Utilities.
The term also means a duly authorized representative of the Director.
   DISCHARGER. Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than: 250 mg/l BOD, 250 mg/l suspended
solids; and 20 mg/l ammonia nitrogen.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water- Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGE (FWA). A procedure used to calculate alternative
limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and nonregulated
wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring point as
defined in 40 C.F.R. 403.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   HAULED WASTEWATER. Industrial wastewater that is collected and stored in
Department approved facilities and then hauled by tanker truck or other vehicle
to be discharged at a waste receiving point within the City of Ashland sewer
system.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than those defined as
“compatible pollutants” in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any non-domestic source.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes as
distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized under the Control Authority by the Director
of Engineering and Utilities to enter and inspect industrial users and other
dischargers to the Ashland sewer system.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined herein is commonly referred to as a grease,
oil or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; any
state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941
et seq.; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine
Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act , being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and
33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MAY. This is permissive.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307 (b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(a) and (b) which applies to a specific category of industrial users. This
term includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R.,
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405 - 471.
   NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES or
KPDES) PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342),
or a permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and
referred to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c), that will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of division (1)(b) or (1)(c) of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces
or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this section has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
   NINETY-DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report submitted by a categorical industrial
user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance status of the
user (40 C.F.R. § 403.12 (d)).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   OIL AND GREASE. A group of substances, including hydrocarbons, fatty acids,
soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a solvent
from the acidified sample that is not that is volatilized during the laboratory
test procedures. OIL AND GREASES are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the control authority at least semiannually (40
C.F.R. part 403.12).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   PREMISES. A parcel of real estate including any single improvement thereon
which is determined by the Department to be a single user for purpose of
receiving, using and payment for service.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct or waste
product.
   PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD. A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial users manufacturing process.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
50.020.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any directions.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by the
public.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the city. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and
any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   REGULATED WASTESTREAM. An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
national categorical pretreatment standard.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treatment and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage system and
the POTW.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of such works.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) of this definition, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by City of Ashland on the basis that it
has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to the City of Ashland’s finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
50.066(B) (see 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q)), together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2) of
this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant
industrial user.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, or air pollution control
facility or any other facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under the Clean
Water Act and in the applicable requirements under the Solid Waste Disposal Act
Pub. Law No. 94-580, and amendments, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
50.020. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN. A plan prepared by an industrial user to
minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   SPLIT SAMPLE. Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   STATE. Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed “storm sewer”). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt services in addition to the basic sewer user and debt service charges, for
those users whose contributions contain biochemical oxygen demand (BOD),
chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids (TSS), oil & grease or
ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) and thiocyanate (SCN) in concentrations which exceed
limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the control
authority, payment of a SURCHARGE will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE. Combination of individual samples with fixed
volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the EPA under the provisions
of the Clean Water Act § 301(a), being 33 U.S.C. § 1311(a) or any amendment
thereto.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM. A wastestream that is not regulated by national
categorical pretreatment standards.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued to industrial users which
authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in §§
50.080 through
50.087.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT (WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS).
That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal
sewage and industrial waste.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifiers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 46-2013, passed 6-
6-2013)
§ 50.005 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
division (B) of this section) associated with the enforcement activity taken by
the Director to address IU noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.006 CONFLICT.
   The surcharge ordinance of the City of Ashland, Kentucky is not being
repealed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.006) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. part
261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0, or otherwise causing
corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts or of such size capable of
obstructing the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Director of Engineering and Utilities in accordance with §
50.048;
      (9)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Clean Water
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting
sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act ,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or
state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (10)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity testing, violate its NPDES/
KPDES permit and or sludge disposal system permit;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing any identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons, in quantities or concentrations capable of interfering with or
passing through the POTW; and
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing acid metallic pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 50.015) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.021 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Mandatory sewer connection.
      (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter within 60 days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 250 feet of the
property line.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as
defined in division (A)(1) of this section, except as provided for in §
50.022.
      (3)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and
any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
   (B)   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city
except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm
sewer within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any
sanitary wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
or management has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of
this chapter. No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
owner of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying
with applicable state and federal regulations governing such discharge.
   (C)   Compliance with local, state and federal laws. The discharge of any
wastewater into the public sewer system by any person is unlawful except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any more stringent state or
federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the Clean Water Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub. L. 92-500), and subsequent amendments,
and 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (D)   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer.
      (1)   (a)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged,
through any leak, defect or connection any unpolluted waters, such as storm
water, groundwater, roof runoff, wall seepage or floor
seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or subsurface drainage to
any sanitary sewer, building sewer, building drain or building plumbing.
         (b)   Pipes, sumps and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities. No sanitary drain sump or
sump pump discharge by manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a
dual use for removal of such water.
         (c)   Any such connections which already exist on the effective date
of this chapter shall be completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days
of the effective date of this chapter.
         (d)   The Director of Engineering and Utilities or his or her
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer.
         (e)   Removal of such sources of water without presence of such
separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public sanitary sewers.
         (f)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks
or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
      (2)   The construction of any new combined sewers or any source of inflow
other than sanitary sewage or permitted industrial sewage is prohibited without
the advice and consent of the Kentucky EPA.
      (3)   Any new construction tributary to the combined sewer system shall
be designed to minimize and/or delay inflow contribution to the combined sewer
system except when this is deemed impractical with the advice and consent of
the Kentucky EPA.
   (E)   Prohibited discharges. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will
interfere with performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all
such users of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. A user shall not contribute the following substances
to the POTW:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solids, or gases, or any pollutants with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C), or that could cause an excess of 20% of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) at any point within the collection system, pump
stations or POTW or any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their
nature or quantity are, or may be sufficient whether alone or by interaction
with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other
way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the POTW;
      (3)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like), released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will
cause interference with the normal operation of the POTW;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities (i.e., wood, glass, ashes, sand,
cinders, unshredded garbage, paper products such as cups, dishes, napkins and
milk containers, and the like);
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (7)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting
sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or
state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used.
      (8)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit and/or sludge disposal system permit;
      (9)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW;
      (10)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points
designated by the Director;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing any identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons, in quantities or concentrations capable of interfering with or
passing through the POTW; and
      (12)   Any water or wastes containing acid metallic pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions.
(Prior Code, § 50.016) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 15, 2021, passed
2-25-2021)
§ 50.022 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Public sewer not available.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
of §
50.021, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Boyd County Health Department and all applicable local and
state regulations.
      (2)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
      (3)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
      (4)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits may be excepted. Industries with
current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
   (B)   Requirements for installation.
      (1)   Prior to constructing a private sewage disposal system, the owner
shall first obtain a written permit from the Director of Engineering and
Utilities. The applicant shall provide a site plan, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Director. The permit and inspection fee
(s) shall be established by the city.
      (2)   The Department shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Director when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
      (3)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
      (4)   Permits for approved aerator systems may be issued by the Director
subject to the following:
         (a)   A public water supply shall be available to the proposed and/or
existing building;
         (b)   The aerator system shall pose no adverse conditions to
surrounding properties and/or environment;
         (c)   The applicant must obtain written approval from the State
Plumbing Inspector; and
         (d)   The area of the building lot shall contain at least 15,000
square feet.
      (5)   The lot size for all private wastewater disposal systems, other
than approved aerator systems, employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
shall contain no less than 20,000 square feet.
      (6)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local
and state authorities.
(Prior Code, § 50.017) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.023 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits
required:
            1.   For residential and commercial service; and
            2.   For service to industrial establishments producing industrial
wastes.
         (b)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the Department. Applicants for
service to commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to
furnish information about all waste producing activities, wastewater
characteristics and constituents. The permit application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Director of Engineering and Utilities. Detail regarding
commercial and industrial permits include, but are not limited to, those
required by this chapter. All permit, tap fees, connection charges and
inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
      (2)   No owner or occupant of any real property shall tap or drain either
directly or indirectly into any public sewer until a sewer tap permit has been
obtained and until he or she has satisfied his or her obligation to pay all
assessments, reimbursement or prorated shares of sewer extension costs laid
against that property for public sewers installed to serve it. A tap permit
given in error or sewerage service charges billed to a property in error shall
not operate to nullify any such obligation that has been duly recorded.
      (3)   Users shall promptly notify the Director of Engineering and
Utilities in advance of any introduction of wastewater constituents or any
substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater constituents
being introduced into the POTW. The Director may deny or condition the new
introduction or change in discharge based on the information submitted in the
notification or additional information as may be requested.
      (4)   Major contributors shall fall into two flow classifications. They
are Class A (greater than 0.1 mgd), and Class B (flow from 0.025 mgd to 0.1
MGD). These classifications may be used at the discretion of the Director to
determine minimum sampling requirements, rates and charges.
      (5)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Engineering and
Utilities.
   (B)   Prohibited connections.
      (1)   No sanitary sewer tap shall be made by any person, firm or
corporation except the city. The city will, upon application to the Department
and payment of the tapping or connection fee as hereinafter prescribed, tap the
public sewer and run a lateral to the property line of any applicant where
public sewers are available. Any and all installations or attachments thereto
shall be made by the applicant according to standards set forth in this
chapter. Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the city to furnish a
sanitary sewer connection or sanitary sewer service to any premises where
public sewer is not available at the time the application is made, nor to
provide sanitary sewer service outside the corporate boundaries.
      (2)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 30 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
Pipes, sumps and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be
separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of water without
presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public
sanitary sewer.
      (3)   The Director shall have the authority to require an owner of real
property to disconnect from a building sewer which drains into a sanitary sewer
any downspouts, basement subsurface drains, cistern over-flows, yard drains or
other drains which carry the runoff of natural precipitation. Property owners
shall have 30 days after receipt of written notice to comply with any such
requirements.
   (C)   Design and installations.
      (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway. The sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
      (2)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Director of Utilities,
to meet all requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new
buildings using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building
sewers. If additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers,
additional sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer
tap is actually made into the city system.
      (3)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the
customer’s side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than
that of the customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be
permitted.
      (4)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision, or
ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined, and shall meet
requirements of the State Plumbing Code. Joints shall be as set out
hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is located within five feet of
a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or ductile
iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot deeper in the ground
than the water service line. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may be
required by the Director where the building sewer is exposed to damage or
stoppage by tree roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used
in filled or unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer
is less than three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or
other external loads.
      (5)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
      (6)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection to the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s)
shall indemnify the city for any loss of damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection
shall be as established by the city.
      (7)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
      (8)   Whenever feasible, the sanitary sewer line should be brought to the
property or easement line at an elevation below the basement floor to permit
gravity flow. In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer
at the owner’s expense. Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary
drainage shall be above basement floor or in separately watertight or drained
sump or channel.
      (9)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no properly located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye and tee fitting shall be installed at the property line between the public
sewer and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
cleanout and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
      (10)   All building sewers shall be installed so as to meet or exceed the
most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
      (11)   Unless noted above, please refer to the current version of the
Sanitary Sewer Design, Construction & Maintenance Manual regarding design and
installation.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Director when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Director of
Engineering and Utilities or his or her representative. The connections shall
be made gas-tight and/or watertight and verified by proper testing.
      (2)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the
building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed
and a permanent watertight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye branch
and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the
top of the branch.
(Prior Code, § 50.018) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.024 SANITARY SEWER EXTENSION POLICIES.
   (A)   General criteria for sanitary sewer extensions. Applications for
extension of sanitary sewer service will generally be approved after the
Director has determined that the extension will meet the following applicable
criteria:
      (1)   An adequate receiving sewer is available;
      (2)   The proposed extension of a gravity line can be constructed to the
necessary grade for permitting proper rate of gravity flow and at the same time
provide adequate service to the abutting property;
      (3)   The proposed extension will meet all other specifications and
requirements of the overall sanitary sewer system and terms of this chapter can
and will be met; and
      (4)   The proposed extension will be feasible from the standpoint of
installation costs and revenue
production in that the costs are reasonable and bear a proper relationship to
anticipated revenues to be derived therefrom.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer extension into developed areas. Where a majority of
property owners with property abutting along a street, road, alley, public way
or easement make application for an extension of a sanitary sewer or sewers to
serve their premises, the Department of Engineering and Utilities may cause
such installation to be made under one of the following plans for payment
thereof:
      (1)   Benefitted property owners pay into an escrow fund an amount equal
to the total estimated cost of installation, prior to beginning of
construction. At completion of construction, when actual costs are known, the
escrow account shall be adjusted either up or down, whichever case may apply,
and the actual cost turned over to the Department of Engineering and Utilities;
      (2)   The installation be made on an assessment basis under one or more
of the available Kentucky Revised Statutes for such public improvements.
Provided, however, that the extension applied for is capable of receiving the
discharge from affected premises by gravity flow and that all local and state
plumbing and sanitation requirements can be met, as well as those contained in
this chapter. Such determination shall be made by the Director or person or
persons designated by him or her; and
      (3)   (a)   Sanitary sewer collector line(s) may be extended to
structures existing within the corporate limits of Ashland prior to November 1,
1988, on a cost sharing basis between the property owner and the city. Under
this cost sharing plan, the city will provide at no cost to the property owner,
all city labor costs and all city equipment costs where it is possible to have
city work forces complete the installation of sewer collector line(s). The city
will also share the material and out-of-pocket costs on a 50/50 basis to a
maximum of $1,500 for each primary structure receiving a sewer service
connection, provided the sewer collector line(s) can be installed by city work
forces.
         (b)   Should the construction of said sewers require installation by
an outside (non-city) contractor, the city would share the contract on a 50/50
basis to a maximum of $2,500 for each primary structure receiving a sewer
connection.
         (c)   The installation of wastewater grinder pumps are a permitted use
under the city’s cost sharing plan subject to the following provisions:
            1.   The wastewater grinder pump and related equipment shall be
specified and selected by the Director;
            2.   The city and/or its subcontractor shall be responsible for the
installation of all waste grinder pumps; and
            3.   Once installed and approved by the Director, all grinder pumps
shall be transferred to the property owner by written agreement, for ownership,
operation and maintenance. All grinder pumps shall be warranted for one year
from the date of installation.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers extensions into undeveloped areas.
      (1)   A subdivider or developer of a defined undeveloped area may file an
application for installation of sanitary sewers in such area. There shall be
filed with the Department a plat of the area, approved and accepted by the city
as a new development showing all streets, roads and alleys. Either on the plat
or in a separate submission, information shall be furnished to show which parts
have been zoned or designated for industrial, commercial or residential
development.
      (2)   From information furnished, the Director will make or cause a study
to be made, at the applicant’s expense of the various elements of construction
necessary to make the extensions a workable part of the existing sewage works.
Included in this study will be an estimate of cost of all direct and related
charges of the extension or extensions. Upon completion of the study, if the
Director
determines that the project is feasible, it may cause the construction to be
accomplished under either of the following plans as agreed to by the city and
the subdivider or developer:
         (a)   1.   Full cost of the installation to be borne by the subdivider
or developer under whatever terms may be included in a contract by and between
the city and the subdivider or developer; and
            2.   Installations under this procedure may be planned and
constructed by either party to the contract, provided that, should the
subdivider or developer make or contract for the installation, it shall be his
or her responsibility to see that the work conforms to the city’s currently
effective specifications for sanitary sewer construction. In order to ensure
compliance with the said specifications, it shall be his or her responsibility
to pay the cost of providing a sufficient inspection during construction.
Completed facilities must meet the required performance tests, including
maximum infiltration limits and a complete reproducible set of record drawings,
prior to acceptance by the city.
         (b)   Full cost of the installation to be paid for on an assessment
basis under one or more of the available Kentucky Revised Statutes. Under this
plan, construction would necessarily be accomplished or contracted for by the
city. The applicable connection charge shall be in addition to the actual
construction cost, and all sewers and related items up to the property lines or
on any city easement shall be the city’s property.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer extensions outside Ashland corporate limits.
      (1)   The installation, construction or extension of sewers outside the
corporate limits of the city and the connection or extension of sewers into the
city’s sewerage system, by or from properties located outside such limits shall
be prohibited, except as recommended by the Director of Engineering and
Utilities and approved by the Board of Commissioners of the city by duly
enacted ordinance.
      (2)   (a)   If the city, through its Department of Engineering and
Utilities, accepts applications for and per its construction of sanitary sewer
facilities beyond its corporate limits under the same terms and conditions as
stated herein for installation within its corporation boundaries, each sewer
user shall enter into a written contract with the city agreeing to pay a
continuing charge for sanitary sewer service pursuant to the city’s adopted fee
schedule. A sewer connection charge for each connection outside the corporate
limits, as established by ordinance, shall be paid in addition to cost of
constructing required facilities.
         (b)   The Ashland City Commission reserves the right and privilege to
grant or withhold approval of such extensions except in the approved 201
planning area as required by EPA grant conditions.
   (E)   City’s maintenance responsibilities.
      (1)   Within the corporate limits of Ashland, the city shall operate and
maintain all sewer mains and pump stations that have been dedicated to, and
accepted by, the Ashland City Commission. The city’s maintenance
responsibilities shall be limited to that portion of sewer line located within
the dedicated and accepted street right-of-way. The city shall also maintain
sewer lines located within all recorded utility easements.
      (2)   In cases where street rights-of-way have been dedicated for public
use but not accepted by the city, the city shall consider the entire street
right-of-way as the utility easement where city maintained sewer lines exist.
Any repairs within said street right-of-way shall be restored to their original
condition. In areas outside the corporate limits of Ashland, the city shall
operate and maintain all sewer lines approved by the City Commission. No sewer
lines, pump stations or related appurtenances shall be constructed in any
undedicated street until such street has been approved and accepted by the
proper authorities having jurisdiction.
   (F)   Owner’s maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   It shall be the owner’s, or applicant’s, responsibility to furnish,
install and maintain the private sewer lateral from the building to the point
of connection to the city’s sewer system. However, in the event of a blockage
in the private sewer lateral, it shall be the owner’s responsibility to remove
said blockage and rod the lateral line to the city’s main collector or trunk
line, if possible. It is clearly the owner’s sole responsibility for all
maintenance on private property.
      (2)   In cases where privately installed sewer mains have been
constructed in a substandard manner and do not comply with city specifications,
that portion(s) of sewer main shall be considered private lines and the city
shall not be responsible for any maintenance. A list of private sewers, where
they are known, shall be kept on file in the office of the Director of
Engineering and Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 50.019) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.025 SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   Basis of charges and rates.
      (1)   The charges shall be computed and based upon the meter readings for
water used or supplied each such lot, parcel of land, building or premises by
the municipal water works system, at rates as provided in ordinances adopted by
the City Commission and published from time to time.
      (2)   In the event any premises use water supplied on other than a
metered basis from either a private or a public water supply, then in each such
case the owner or occupant may be required to cause a water meter or other
measuring device to be installed, acceptable to the Department, and the
quantity of water used as measured by such meter shall determine the sewer
rate, rental or charge. Pending installation of such meter, the sewer rates,
rentals or charges shall be based upon the estimated quantity of water used,
priced at city water rates in the same manner; provided, that pending such
installation of water meters in private dwellings, the sewer rate, rental or
charge shall be as provided in ordinance.
      (3)   Where more than 20% of the water used by the owner or occupant of
any premises during the year does not flow into the sanitary or combined sewer,
the percentage in excess of 20% shall be excluded from the calculation of the
sewer service rates and charges herein provided. It shall be the burden of the
owner or occupant of any such premises to provide to the Department that more
than 20% of the water used on such premises during the year does not flow into
the sanitary or combined sewer, and such burden shall be deemed to be met only
upon a showing by the sewer user, to the satisfaction of the Department, that
the quantity thereof is accurately measured by means of a standard water meter.
In the event the sewer user has no such evidence, a water meter for such
purpose may be provided by the city, upon payment by the sewer user of the cost
of the necessary equipment and all expenses of installation, in no case,
however, shall the sewer service rates and charges herein provided by
calculated upon less than 20% of the water used by the owner or occupant of any
premises during the year.
      (4)   Whenever it is determined by the city or the Department to be
necessary to classify any commercial institutions or industries by reason of
the unusual purpose for which water is used, or the character of the sewage,
water or other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established
schedule of rates and charges for any reason are not applicable, then special
rates, rentals or other charges may be established by the city’s governing
body, and any person, firm or corporation being dissatisfied with the
established schedule of rates, rentals or other charges by reason of peculiar
or unusual use or occupancy of any premises, and consequently alleging peculiar
or unusual uses of water, may file application with the Department for special
classification rates, rentals and charges. The Department shall submit such
application to the governing body of the city with recommendations and the
governing body may take action as it sees fit.
      (5)   In computing the sewer service charge, there shall be excluded from
water usage or service any portions thereof representing standby service for
sprinkler systems and for straight fire lines or hose connections.
      (6)   Sewer service charges shall not apply to meter readings
representing surplus water furnished at wholesale to other municipalities,
communities or water systems; but if any municipality, community or other
entity shall desire to make arrangements for disposal of all or a part of its
flowable sewage wastes through sewer lines or facilities of the city, same
shall be only upon the basis of special contract specifically approved and
authorized in each instance by ordinance or resolution duly adopted by the
city’s governing body. The city recognizes no obligation or duty of any sort to
enter into any such contract or arrangement, and may entertain or refuse to
entertain any such proposal as it sees fit, and regardless of the fact that it
may have seen fit to act otherwise or upon different terms in any other similar
or dissimilar case.
      (7)   In the matter of the furnishing of sewer service upon a temporary
basis to circuses, carnivals, tent meetings, outdoor athletic events (other
than those carried on by the public school system) and other miscellaneous
temporary use, a flat rate may be fixed by the Director in each individual
case, and the service charge shall be paid in advance.
      (8)   Refund and adjustment of sewer service charges because of water
meter errors shall be determined by the same procedure as water-charge refunds
and adjustments set forth in the rules and regulations of the city water
system.
   (B)   Method of billing.
      (1)   The rates and charges for the use of and services rendered by the
sanitary sewer system shall become effective to all premises where sewer lines
are made available upon the date of actual connection thereto, or 60 days after
the Director has written notice to the owner or occupant of the premises that
sewer service has been available, whichever date is earlier.
      (2)   The rates and charges shall be computed and billed monthly,
bimonthly, or as the city may decide.
   (C)   Discontinuance of service.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 96.930 et seq., bills for water and sewer service
shall be billed, collected and enforced together, so that when any bill for
sewer service has remained unpaid and becomes delinquent or any premises have
failed upon 60 days’ notice from the Department to connect to the sewer system,
the water service to the delinquent premises shall be discontinued and shall
not be reinstated until the bill for sewer service and any prescribed charge
for water reconnection is paid in full, and the premises have been connected to
the sewer system.
      (2)   The Department shall, after due notice, have the right to
discontinue service or to refuse to render service, for a violation or a
failure to comply with these regulations, on the customer’s agreement for
service.
      (3)   Discontinuance of service by the Department for any causes stated
on these regulations shall not release the customer from the liability for
service already received or other provisions of the customer’s agreement.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.026 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
divisions (E) and (F) of this section.
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Director may
convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Director shall
impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403.6(e).
   (D)   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the industrial user’s intake water in accordance with
this section. Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to the City of Ashland. Upon request of the
industrial user, the applicable standard will be calculated on a “
      (2)   Criteria.
         (a)   Either:
            1.   The applicable categorical pretreatment standards contained in
40 C.F.R. Subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net
basis; or
            2.   The industrial user demonstrates that the control system it
proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards would,
if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the absence of
pollutants in the intake waters.
         (b)   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), and oil and grease should not be granted
unless the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the generic
measure in the user’s effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of
the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits
are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
         (c)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted under this
division (D)(2).
         (d)   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. The city may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
   (E)   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the city convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the Director.
The city may establish equivalent mass limits only if the industrial user meets
all the conditions set forth in division (E)(1)(a) through (E)(1)(e) of this
section.
      (1)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
         (a)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and not have used dilution as a
substitute for treatment;
         (c)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility’s
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility’s long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
         (d)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
         (e)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user’s request
for equivalent mass limits.
      (2)   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         (a)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         (b)   Continue to record the facility’s flow rates through the use of
a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         (c)   Continue to record the facility’s production rates and notify
the Director whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than 20%
from its baseline production rates determined in division (E)(1)(c) of this
section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the Director will
reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (d)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to division (E)(1)(a) of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      (3)   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Director:
         (a)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         (b)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (c)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharge permit terms if the industrial user’s actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to §
50.030. The industrial user must also be in compliance with §
50.177 regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   (F)   The Director may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 C.F.R. parts 414, 419 and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the Director.
   (G)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (H)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (I)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the Director within two business days after the user has a reasonable
basis to know that the production level will significantly change within the
next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Director of such anticipated
change will be required to meet the mass or concentration limits in its permit
that were based on the original estimate of the long term average production
rate.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.027 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with KPDES pretreatment requirements codified at 401 KAR
5:055.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.028 POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   General conditions. The following described substances, materials,
waters or wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to
concentration or quantities which: will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will maintain and protect water quality in the
lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The Director of
Engineering and Utilities may set additional limitations or limitations more
stringent than those established in the provisions below if in his or her
opinion more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of a discharge, the Director
shall give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Restricted discharges.
      (1)   Wastewater containing more than 100 mg/l of hydrocarbon oil,
nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin;
      (2)   Wastewater containing total oil and grease, floatable oils, fat or
grease, whether emulsified or not, in amounts which may cause pass through or
upset of the POTW or may solidify or become viscous at temperate between 32°F
and 150°F (0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may not be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit, prevents
the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation set forth
in a categorical pretreatment standard;
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (6)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes;
      (7)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to
an acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit; and
      (9)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazard waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
without a 60-day prior notification of such discharge to the Director of
Engineering and Utilities. This notification must include the name of the
hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type of discharge, volume/mass
of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The Director may prohibit or condition
the discharge(s) at any time.
   (C)   Surcharge limits.
      (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharges
Parameter Limits Units
Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharges
Parameter                    Limits Units
Biochemical oxygen demand    250    mg/l
(BOD)
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 658    mg/l
Total suspended solids (TSS) 250    mg/l
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N)     20     mg/l
Oil and grease, total        50     mg/l
Thiocyanate (SCN)            0      mg/l
Note:
   Surcharges shall be levied for excess BOD or COD, whichever is higher, but
not both
 
      (2)   Any user discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, shall be subject to a surcharge fee for each
pound loading over and above the set limit as listed below:
 
Parameter                                                       Rate/Pound
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or chemical oxygen demand (COD) $0.2193
Total suspended solids (TSS)                                    $0.2706
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N)                                        $0.5327
Oil and grease, total                                           $0.5007
Thiocyanate (SCN)                                               As stated below
 
      (3)   Any other amenable constituents requiring the addition of specific
chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject to surcharge as noted on
the wastewater discharge permit. Exceeding the effluent limits specified above
shall not be deemed to constitute a violation of a permit condition of these
regulations if the appropriated surcharge fee is paid and the discharge does
not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (D)   Local limits.
      (1)   The Director is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to 40
C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
      (2)   (a)   The following daily maximum discharge limitations are
established for characteristics of any wastewaters to be discharged into the
municipal sewer system. All users must comply with these limitations if they
are more stringent than applicable state and or federal regulations.
Parameter Limits Units
Parameter                   Limits Units
pH                          <6     s.u.
Arsenic (As)                0.96   mg/l
Cadmium (Cd)                0.007  mg/l
Chromium, Total (Cr)        3.47   mg/l
Chromium, hexavalent (Cr+6) 0.36   mg/l
Copper (Cu)                 0.79   mg/l
Cyanide, free               1.19   mg/l
Lead (Pb)                   0.50   mg/l
Mercury (Hg)                0.004  mg/l
Nickel (Ni)                 1.65   mg/l
Oil and grease, hydrocarbon 100    mg/l
Phenols                     97.5   mg/l
Selenium                    0.05   mg/l
Silver (Ag)                 1.90   mg/l
Zinc (Zn)                   3.19   mg/l
 
         (b)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. Director may impose mass limitations in
addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
      (3)   The Director may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits, to
implement local limits and the requirements of §
50.020.
(Prior Code, § 50.023) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 30-2015, passed 3-
26-2015; Ord. 28-2016, passed 2-26-2016; Ord. 110-2016, passed 9-22-2016; Ord.
15, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 50.029 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits or in general permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.024) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.030 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The Director
may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 50.025) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 50.045 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
50.020 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the
Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to
the Director for review, and shall be acceptable to the Director before such
facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.035) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.046 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Director may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such
other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit or a general permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Director, shall comply
with the city’s fats, oil and grease policy (Chapter 53 of this code of
ordinances), and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired in
accordance with the city’s fats, oil and grease policy (
Chapter 53 of this code of ordinances) and applicable county Health Department
regulations (if applicable, cite) by the user at their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Prior Code, § 50.036) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.047 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   The Director shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/
slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The
Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval and implement
such a plan or take such other action that may be necessary to control slug
discharges. Alternatively, the Director may develop such a plan for any user.
An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Director of any accidental or
slug discharge, as required by §
50.120; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Prior Code, § 50.037) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.048 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   All hauled wastewater is subject to the provisions listed below.
   (A)   The Director may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits. Generators of
hauled industrial waste shall obtain individual wastewater discharge permits or
general permits. The Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled
industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all
other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Director detailed in their permit. No load may be discharged
without prior consent of the Director. The Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Director may
require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Prior Code, § 50.038) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 46-2013, passed 6-
6-2013)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE; GENERAL PERMITS
§ 50.060 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Director, a user must submit information on the nature
and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically
require users to update this information.
(Prior Code, § 50.050) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.061 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT AND GENERAL PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit from the Director, except that a significant industrial user
that has filed a timely application pursuant to §
50.062 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Director may require other users to obtain individual wastewater
discharge permits or general permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit or a general permit shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set
out in §§
50.160,
50.161,
50.205 through
50.212, and
50.225 through
50.228. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and
state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 50.051) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.062 EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the
effective date of this chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future, shall, within 30 days after said date, apply to the Director for an
individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit in accordance with §
50.064, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
60 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with an
individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit issued by the
Director. Permitees currently holding valid individual wastewater discharge
permits will require no action and are continued to be subject to the terms of
said permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.052) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.063 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW
must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such
discharge. An application for this individual wastewater discharge permit or
general permit, in accordance with §
50.064, must be filed at least 60 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Prior Code, § 50.053) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.064 APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
or a general permit must submit a permit application. Users that are eligible
may request a general permit under §
50.065. The Director may require users to submit all or some of the following
information as part of a permit application:
      (1)   Identifying information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner; and
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities and
plant production processes on the premises.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day); and
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      (4)   Time and duration. Time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   Location. The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the
permit;
      (6)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in §
50.026(C) (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e));
      (7)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the Director,
of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process;
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported;
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.124. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall
submit documentation as required by the Director or the applicable standards to
determine compliance with the standard; and
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
50.125.
      (8)   Monitoring waiver. Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a
renewal of an approved monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge based on §
50.118(B) (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2));
      (9)   General permit. Any request to be covered by a general permit based
on §
50.120; and
      (10)   Other information. Any other information as may be deemed
necessary by (the Superintendent) to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Prior Code, § 50.054) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.065 GENERAL PERMITS.
   (A)   At the discretion of the Director of Engineering and Utilities, the
Director may use general permits to control SIU discharges to the POTW if the
following conditions are met. All facilities to be covered by a general permit
must:
      (1)   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
      (2)   Discharge the same types of wastes;
      (3)   Require the same effluent limitations;
      (4)   Require the same or similar monitoring; and
      (5)   In the opinion of the Director, are more appropriately controlled
under a general permit than under individual wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   To be covered by the general permit, the SIU must file a written
request for coverage that identifies its contact information, production
processes, the types of wastes generated, the location for monitoring all
wastes covered by the general permit, any requests in accordance with §
50.118(B) for a monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor expected
to be present in the discharge, and any other information the POTW deems
appropriate. A monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor expected
to be present in the discharge is not effective in the general permit until
after the Director has provided written notice to the SIU that such a waiver
request has been granted in accordance with §
50.118(B).
   (C)   The Director will retain a copy of the general permit, documentation
to support the POTW’s determination that a specific SIU meets the criteria in
division (A)(1) through (A)(5) of this section and applicable state
regulations, and a copy of the user’s written request for coverage for three
years after the expiration of the general permit.
   (D)   The Director may not control an SIU through a general permit where the
facility is subject to production-based categorical pretreatment standards or
categorical pretreatment standards expressed as mass of pollutant discharged
per day or for IUs whose limits are based on the combined wastestream formula
(§
50.026(C)) or net/gross calculations (§
50.026(D)).
(Prior Code, § 50.055) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.066 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
50.128(A).
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for
the overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying
the requirements of this section must be submitted to the Director prior to or
together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by Director pursuant to §
50.004 must annually submit the signed certification statement in §
50.128(B).
(Prior Code, § 50.056) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.067 PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Director will determine whether to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit or a general permit. The Director may deny any
application for an individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.057) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS; GENERAL PERMITS
§ 50.080 PERMIT DURATION.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit shall be
issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five years from the effective
date of the permit. An individual wastewater discharge permit or a general
permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the discretion of
the Director. Each individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit
will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Prior Code, § 50.070) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.081 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit shall include
such conditions as are deemed reasonably necessary by the Director to prevent
pass through or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving
the treatment plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate
sludge management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits and general permits must
contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with §
50.084, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
50.118(B);
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law;
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Director to be necessary; and
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Director (§
50.118(B)) must be included as a condition in the user’s permit or other
control mechanism.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits may
contain, but need not be limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non- routine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit or the general permit does not relieve the permittee of
responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and state
pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the term
of the individual wastewater discharge permit or the general permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.071) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.082 PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS.
   The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the Director or his or her designees may issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit or a general permit subject to the terms and conditions
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 50.072) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.083 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Director may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the City of Ashland’s POTW, city personnel or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. part 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
50.084.
   (B)   The Director may modify a general permit for good cause, including,
but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (3)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (4)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
50.084.
(Prior Code, § 50.073) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.084 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits or coverage under general
permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator only if the permittee
gives at least 30 days’ advance notice to the Director and the Director
approves the individual wastewater discharge permit or the general permit
coverage transfer. The notice to the Director must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit or coverage under the general permit void as of the
date of facility transfer.
(Prior Code, § 50.074) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.085 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Director may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit or
coverage under a general permit for good cause, including, but not limited to,
the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Director of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Director of changed
conditions pursuant to §
50.119;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Director timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or the general permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits or coverage under general
permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations or transfer of business
ownership. All individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits
issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a new individual wastewater
discharge permit or a general permit to that user.
(Prior Code, § 50.075) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.086 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit or general
permit shall apply for individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit
reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance with §
50.064, a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.076) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.087 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Director shall enter into an multi-
jurisdictional agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) of this
section, the Director shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Director may deem necessary.
   (C)   A multi-jurisdictional agreement, as required by division (A) of this
section, shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those set out in §
50.028. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit
issuance, inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the
contributing municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by (the
Superintendent); and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the multi-jurisdictional;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Director with access to all information that the contributing municipality
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Director access to the facilities of users
located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional boundaries for
the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed necessary by
the Director; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
   (D)   All multi-jurisdictional agreements in effect prior to the passage of
this chapter are considered valid.
(Prior Code, § 50.077) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION POLICIES
§ 50.100 PREVENTION PROGRAM AND CLAIMS PROCESS POLICY.
   The Board of City Commissioners of the city hereby adopts the Ashland Sewer
Backflow Prevention Program and Claims Process Policy for the city. Said policy
is attached to Ord. 68-2002 and made a part hereof by reference.
(Prior Code, § 50.085) (Ord. 68-2002, passed 7-2-2002)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.115 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Director a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) of this section. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Director a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) of this section. A new source shall report
the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Information. All information required in §
50.064(A)(1)(a), (A)(2), (A)(3)(a) and (A)(6);
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
50.064(A)(7)(a) through (A)(7)(d);
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(B);
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the control authority;
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
50.124;
         (e)   The Director may allow the submission of a baseline report which
utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures; and
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
50.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
50.116; and
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
50.128 and signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
50.004.
(Prior Code, § 50.090) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.116 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
50.115(B)(4):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Director no later than
14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance
including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.091) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.117 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Director a
report containing the information described in §§
50.064(A)(6) and (A)(7) and
50.115(B)(2). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
50.026, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.128. All sampling will be done in conformance with §
50.125.
(Prior Code, § 50.092) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.118 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   All SIUs are required to submit periodic compliance reports even if they
have been designated a non-significant categorical industrial user under the
provisions of division (C) of this section.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (C) of this section, all individual
wastewater discharge permit holder must, at a frequency determined by the
Director submit no less than twice per year (June and December or on dates
specified) reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases
where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management
practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit
documentation required by the Director or the pretreatment standard necessary
to determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   The city may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater;
      (2)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See §
50.064(A)(8);
      (3)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes;
      (4)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with the definition of an authorized user in §
50.004, and include the certification statement in §
50.128(A) (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(2)(ii));
      (5)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 C.F.R. part
136 with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis;
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Director must be included
as a condition in the user’s permit. The reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Director for three years after expiration of the waiver;
      (7)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user’s
permit by the Director, the industrial user must certify on each report with
the statement in §
50.128(C), that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream
due to activities of the industrial user;
      (8)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user’s operations,
the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements of division
(A) of this section, or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by
the Director, and notify the Director; and
      (9)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (C)   The city may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance reports to
a requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the USEPA or Kentucky
Division of Water, where the industrial user’s total categorical wastewater
flow does not exceed any of the following:
      (1)   (a)   3,300 gallons per day (0.01% of the POTW’s design dry-weather
hydraulic capacity of the POTW, or 5,000 gallons per day, whichever is
smaller), as measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless
the industrial user discharges in batches;
         (b)   1.891 pounds per day of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) (0.01%
of the design dry-weather organic treatment capacity of the POTW); and
         (c)   The value for 0.01% of the maximum allowable headworks loading
for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment standard
for which approved local limits were developed in accordance with §
50.028. This value is listed for each parameter in which a local limit has been
established for the city in the table below:
Parameter MAHL (lbs/day) 0.01%*MAHL (lbs/day)
Parameter            MAHL (lbs/day) 0.01%*MAHL (lbs/day)
Arsenic              3.991524       0.00399152
Cadmium              0.048382       0.000004838
Chromium, total      21.231511      0.002123151
Chromium, hexavalent 2.439265       0.000243926
Copper               3.964914       0.000396491
Cyanide, free        5.165502       0.000516550
Lead                 2.128813       0.000212881
Mercury              0.015659       0.000001566
Nickel               6.902010       0.000690201
Selenium             0.407298       0.000040730
Silver               7.791455       0.000779145
Zinc                 16.941800      0.001694180
 
      (2)   Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in
the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in §
50.130. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user
with daily flow rates, production levels or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of the Director, decreasing the reporting
requirement for this industrial user would result in data that are not
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (D)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
50.128(A).
   (E)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (F)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Director, using the procedures prescribed in §
50.125, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Prior Code, § 50.093) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012; Ord. 30-2015, passed 3-
26-2015; Ord. 15, 2021, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 50.119 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Director of any significant changes to the user’s
operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume of its
wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (A)   The Director may require the user to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
50.064.
   (B)   The Director may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit under §
50.086 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit or a general permit
under §
50.083 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Prior Code, § 50.094) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.120 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Director of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Director, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which might be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant
to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Director
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Prior Code, § 50.095) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.121 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
or general permit shall provide appropriate reports to the Director as the
Director may require.
(Prior Code, § 50.096) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.122 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall
also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat
analysis to the Director within days after becoming aware of the violation.
Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city performs sampling
at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the city performs sampling
at the user between the time when the initial sampling was conducted and the
time when the user or the city receives the results of this sampling, or if the
city has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 50.097) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.123 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The discharge of hazardous waste to the city sewer system is restricted
pursuant to §
50.028(B)(9).
(Prior Code, § 50.098) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.124 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA
determines that the 40 C.F.R. part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
Director or other parties approved by EPA.
(Prior Code, § 50.099) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.125 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Director. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
50.115 and
50.117, a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities
for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which
historical sampling data are available, the Director may authorize a lower
minimum. For the reports required by §
50.118 (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required
to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance
by with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Prior Code, § 50.100) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.126 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 50.101) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.127 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
50.028(C). Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.102) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.128 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
50.066; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
50.115(B)(5); users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
50.117; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
50.118(A) through (D); and users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of §
50.118(B)(4). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
50.004:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by
the Director pursuant to division (3) under the definition of “significant
industrial user” in §
50.004, and §
50.066(C) must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements as defined in §
50.004. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
Director:
      Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40
C.F.R., I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from ___, ____to____, ____ [months, days, year]:
      (a)   The facility described as [facility name] met the definition of a
non-significant categorical industrial user as described in division (3) under
the definition of “significant industrial user” in §
50.004;
      (b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
      (c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
      This compliance certification is based on the following information.
   (C)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
50.118(B) must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of
the user.
      Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 C.F.R. _____ [specify
applicable national pretreatment standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of ____
[list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility
since filing of the last periodic report under §
50.118(A).
(Prior Code, § 50.103) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.129 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, general
permits and monitoring programs, and from the Director’s inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Director, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40
C.F.R. part 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall
be available to the public without restriction.
(Prior Code, § 50.104) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.130 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Director shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation
that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the
POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous 12 months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
division (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits;
   (B)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, multiplied
by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2
for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement (daily
maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that
the Director determines has caused, alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the health of
POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Director’s exercise of
its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Director determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Prior Code, § 50.105) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.131 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. All applications, reports, or information submitted to
the city shall be signed and certified.
   (B)   Signatures. All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation, by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president; and
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship, by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (C)   Authorized representative. All other correspondence, reports, and
self-monitoring reports shall be signed by a person described above or by a
duly authorized representative of that person. A person is a duly authorized
representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
and
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having control over a facility or activity, such as the position of plant
manager, superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (D)   Certification. Any person signing a document under this section shall
make the following certification:
“I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the information
contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best of my
knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and accurate.”
(Prior Code, § 50.106) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.132 PRETREATMENT ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)   Introduction. On August 23, 1990, the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) adopted a new regulation which requires publicly owned treatment works
(POTW) per 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5) to develop and implement an enforcement
response plan. The plan shall contain detailed procedures indicating how a POTW
will investigate and respond to instances of industrial user noncompliance and
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Describe how the POTW will investigate instances of noncompliance;
      (2)   Describe the types of escalating enforcement responses the POTW
will take in response to all anticipated types of industrial user violations
and the time periods within which responses will take place;
      (3)   Identify by title the officials(s) responsible for implementing
each type of enforcement response; and
      (4)   Adequately reflect the POTWs primary responsibility to enforce all
applicable pretreatment requirements and standards, as provided in 40 C.F.R. §
403.8(f)(1) and (f)(2).
   (B)   Implementation. These procedures for implementation of the enforcement
response plan shall be implemented by city personnel who currently hold the
following positions:
      (1)   City Manager;
      (2)   Director of Engineering and Utilities. Very high level decisions;
termination of service and the like;
      (3)   Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent. Responsible for
oversight of pretreatment administration; and
      (4)   Pretreatment Administrator.
         (a)   Responsible for pretreatment administration;
         (b)   Low to high level decisions;
         (c)   Compliance tracking;
         (d)   Provides assistance to the City Attorney in case of litigation;
and
         (e)   Sample collection and analysis.
   (C)   Abatement procedures for harmful discharges.
      (1)   Beyond the issuance of notices of violations and fines, the city
has the following options for immediate abatement of harmful discharges:
         (a)   Closure of sewer access. This is most applicable to the AK Steel
Coke Plant where a knife valve exists. It could also be implemented by
excavation and sealing of sewer taps;
         (b)   Termination of water service. This is most applicable to those
users who depend entirely on the city water system for their process water;
         (c)   Addition of neutralizing chemicals.
            1.   Lime paid by AK Steel Coke Plant; and
            2.   Nitrate and hypochorite addition by County Sewer Districts.
         (d)   Diversion to the river. This would be accomplished at the pump
stations after approval by the KYEPA; and
         (e)   Dilution. Opening fire hydrants into the sewers and the like.
      (2)   The procedures for abatement of harmful discharges shall be
implemented by City of Ashland personnel who currently hold the following
positions:
         (a)   Director of Engineering and Utilities;
         (b)   Pretreatment Administrator;
         (c)   Water Distribution and Sewer Collection Superintendent;
         (d)   Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent;
         (e)   Fire Chief; and
         (f)   Police Chief.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AO. Administrative order.
      CIVIL ACTION. Civil litigation against the industrial user. This is
defined as litigation seeking equitable relief, monetary penalties and actual
damages.
      CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION. Pursuing punitive measures against an individual
and/or organization through a prosecution in a court of law.
      D. Director of the City of Ashland Department of Engineering and
Utilities.
      FINE. Monetary penalty assessed by the city. FINES are assessed by the
Pretreatment Administrator.
      IU. Industrial user.
      NOV. Notice of violation.
      PA. City of Ashland Pretreatment Administrator
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works/treatment facility and the like.
      SHOW CAUSE. Formal meeting requiring the IU to appear and demonstrate why
the city should not take a proposed enforcement.
   (E)   Explanation of enforcement response guide actions.
      (1)   Notice of violation. It is an official communication from the city
to the noncompliant industrial user which informs the user that a pretreatment
program violation has occurred. The notice of violation (NOV) is an initial
response to violations. A NOV may be issued in response to significant
noncompliance prior to the issuance of an administrative order, fine or any
other ERP actions described herein. The NOV’s purpose is to notify the
industrial user (IU) of the violation(s). It may be the only action taken if
the violations) are minor or infrequent.
      (2)   Administrative fines. An administrative fine is a monetary penalty
assessed by the city for violations of the pretreatment program. These fines
are assessed at the discretion of the city and the amount of a fine may be
determined on an individual basis. Administrative fines are different from
civil penalties. Civil penalties are imposed by court proceedings. Fines
assessed by the city will not require court proceedings unless the IU refuses
to pay or contests the actions. Administrative fines are punitive in nature and
are not related to a specific cost incurred by the city. Fines are to recapture
full or partial economic benefit of noncompliance and to deter further
violations of the pretreatment program.
      (3)   Administrative order.
         (a)   Administrative orders (AO) are enforcement documents which
direct IU’s to start or stop specific activities. The terms of AOs may or may
not be negotiable with the IUs. Administrative orders will in general be the
first response to significant noncompliance unless the violation deems
immediate judicial proceedings. They may also incorporate compliance schedules,
administrative penalties and termination of service orders.
         (b)   The four types of administrative orders of importance are:
            1.   Cease and desist orders;
            2.   Consent orders;
            3.   Show cause orders; and
            4.   Compliance orders.
      (4)   Cease and desist order. This type of order directs the noncompliant
user to cease illegal or authorized discharges immediately or to terminate the
discharge completely. Commonly, the above order would be used against a user
where a discharge could cause pass through or interference. Also, it would be
used if a user’s discharge caused an emergency situation. The order may be
given upon discovery of the problem or following a hearing. In an emergency the
order may be given by phone. A written order will follow the phone call
notifying the user of the order. The city may order immediate cessation of
discharge to the sewer regardless of prior compliance status. If the situation
is an emergency, the order may be used to suspend or permanently revoke the
user’s industrial wastewater discharge permit. If the user fails to heed the
order, the city may take independent action to alleviate the discharge such as
terminating water service or blocking the sewer line.
      (5)   Consent order. The consent order combines the authority of an AO
with the option of a negotiated settlement. It is an agreement between the city
and IU containing three basic parts: compliance schedules; stipulated fines or
remedial actions; and signatures of the city and the IU representatives. A
consent order is typically used when an IU accepts responsibility for its
noncompliance and is willing to correct the cause. The user does not have to
admit noncompliance in the text of the order. Furthermore, signing the order is
neither an admission of liability for purposes of civil litigation nor a plea
of guilty for purposes of criminal prosecution. The consent order is a means in
which the city seeks to prohibit future violations and provides for corrective
action by the IU.
      (6)   Show cause order. A show cause order requires the user/IU to appear
before the city and to explain the reason for their noncompliance. Also, the
involved user may want to show cause as to why more stringent enforcement
actions should not be taken. The order can also be used to coerce the user to
appear before the city to investigate violations of previous orders.
      (7)   Compliance order. A compliance order directs the user to achieve
compliance by a specific date. This order is issued unilaterally but the terms
may be discussed prior to issuance. The compliance order will be issued when
noncompliance cannot be eliminated without construction, repair or process
changes. Furthermore, they are used when an IU needs to develop management
practices, spill prevention programs and related city pretreatment program
requirements.
      (8)   Civil action/litigation. Civil action litigation is the formal
process of filing a lawsuit against the IU to secure court ordered action to
correct violations) and/or assess penalties for violations which includes the
recovery of costs to the city for the noncompliance. This action will generally
be used when the solution to the violation is costly or complex, the penalty
assessed exceeds what the city can administratively impose, or when the IU is
unwilling to cooperate. Civil litigation includes enforcement measures which
require involvement or approval by the courts for injunctive relief and
settlement agreements. Civil litigation is comparable to criminal prosecution
in that it requires full cooperation of the attorney and may result in court
trials of the IU and assessment of penalties. Moreover, civil litigation is
used for different purposes and requires less rigorous burden of proof in order
for the city to obtain the desired outcome.
      (9)   Criminal investigation/prosecution.
         (a)   Criminal prosecution is the formal process of charging
individuals and/or organizations/corporations with violations of ordinance
provisions that are punishable, upon conviction by fines and/or imprisonment.
The
purposes of criminal prosecution are to punish noncompliance proven through
court proceedings and to deter future noncompliance. Criminal offenses are
defined as either misdemeanors or felonies. According to federal law, felonies
are offenses punishable by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.
Examples of environmental crimes characterized as felonies under the Clean
Water Act are knowing violations of the Act and knowing endangerment of human
health. Knowing violations of the Act are punishable by fines up to $50,000 per
day of violation, imprisonment for up to three years, or both. Knowing
endangerment (placing another person in imminent danger of death or serious
bodily injury) is punishable by fines up to $1,000,000 (for a corporation),
imprisonment of up to 15 years, or both. Fines and prison sentences under the
Act are doubled for second offenses.
         (b)   Per federal law, a misdemeanor is an offense other than a
felony. A misdemeanor is typically punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 or
imprisonment for less than one year. In most instances, offenses punishable
under the ordinance or the pretreatment program such as tampering with
monitoring equipment, submitting false self-monitoring reports or failing to
report illegal discharges are classified as misdemeanors.
         (c)   All crimes require two elements: an act in violation of the law
and criminal intent. Acts which might be classified as criminal may not result
in prosecution if the prosecutor cannot prove intent or criminal negligence. A
prosecutor must without doubt prove both of the above elements before criminal
prosecution will be sought by the city as a viable enforcement action.
      (10)   Termination of sewer service. Termination of service is the
revocation of an ILPs privilege to discharge industrial wastewater into the
city’s sewer system. Termination may be made by physical severance of the
industry’s connection to the collection system, by issuance of an AO which
directs the user to cease its discharge, or by a court ruling. Since
termination of service may cause the industry to halt production or force
closure, the City of Ashland would have to weigh all legal and operational
implications of termination before using this enforcement response. Such an
action does not prohibit future reinstatement of discharge privileges.
      (11)   Unauthorized discharges (no permit).
Noncompliance Nature of Violation Enforcement Response Options Personnel
Noncompliance           Nature of Violation    Enforcement Response   Personnel
                                               Options
                        IU unaware of
Unpermitted discharge   requirement to harm to Phone call             PA
                        POTW/ environment
                                             NOV with application   PA
                                               form
                        IU unaware of
                       requirement; harm to   AO with fine           PA
                        POTW/ environment
                                             Civil action           D
                        Failure to apply
                       continues after notice Civil action           D
                        by the POTW
                                             Criminal investigation D
                                             Terminate service      D
Nonpermitted discharge  IU has not submitted
(failure to renew)      application within 30  Phone call             PA
                        days of due date
                                             NOV                    PA
 
      (12)   Discharge limit violation.
Noncompliance Nature of Violation Enforcement Response Options Personnel
Noncompliance      Nature of Violation     Enforcement Response  Personnel
                                           Options
Exceeding local or Isolated, not
federal standard   significant             Phone call            PA
(permit limit)
                                         NOV                   PA
                  Isolated, significant   NOV                   PA
                                         AO to develop control PA
                                           plan
                                         NOV with fine         PA
                  Isolated, harm to POTW  NOV with fine         PA
                   or environment
                                         Show cause order      D
                                         Civil action          D
                  Recurring, no harm to   NOV                   PA
                   POTW or environment
                                         Compliance schedule   PA
                                         NOV with fine         PA
                                         AO                    PA
                   Recurring; significant,
                  harm to POTW or         AO with fine          PA
                   environment
                                         Show cause order      D
                                         Civil action          D
                                         Terminate service     D
 
      (13)   Monitoring and reporting requirements.
Noncompliance Nature of the Violation Enforcement Response Options Personnel
Noncompliance        Nature of the Violation   Enforcement Response   Personnel
                                               Options
                     Report is improperly
Reporting violation  signed, certified or not  Phone call             PA
                     in proper form
                                             NOV                    PA
                     Report is improperly
                    signed, certified or not  AO                     PA
                     in proper form after
                     notice by the POTW
                                             Show cause order       D
                     Report late, not
                    significant (<30 days     Phone call             PA
                     late)
                                             NOV                    PA
                    Report late, significant  NOV                    PA
                     (30 days or more)
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                                             AO to submit report    PA
                    Reports are always late   AO to submit report    PA
                     or no reports at all
                                             AO with fine           PA
                                             Show cause order       D
                                             Civil action           D
                     Failure to report spill
                    or changed discharge (no  NOV                    PA
                     harm)
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                     Failure to report spill
                    or changed discharge      AO with fine           PA
                     (harm)
                                             Civil action           D
                    Repeated failure to       Show cause order       D
                     report spills
                                             Terminate service      D
Reporting violation  Falsification of any kind Show cause order       D
                                             Criminal investigation D
                                             Terminate service      D
                     Failure to monitor all
Failure to monitor   pollutants as required by Phone call             PA
                     permit
                                             NOV                    PA
                                             AO                     PA
                    Recurring failure to      NOV                    PA
                     monitor all pollutants
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                                             AO                     PA
Improper sampling/   First occurrence with no  Phone call             PA
analysis             evidence of intent
                                             NOV                    PA
                     Subsequent occurrence
                    with no evidence of       Phone call             PA
                     intent
                                             NOV                    PA
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                                             AO                     PA
                    Evidence of intent        Show cause order       D
                                             NOV with fine and AO   PA
                                             Criminal investigation D
                                             Terminate service      D
Failure to install   Delay of less than 45     Phone call             PA
monitoring equipment days
                                             NOV                    PA
                                             AO                     PA
                    Delay of more than 45     NOV                    PA
                     days
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                                             AO                     PA
Failure to install   Recurring violation of AO NOV with fine          PA
monitoring equipment
                                             Civil action           D
                                             Criminal investigation D
                                             Terminate service      D
                     Missed milestone by 30
Compliance schedules days or less, or will not Phone call             PA
                     affect final milestone
                                             NOV                    PA
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                     Missed milestone by more
                    than 30 days, or will     NOV                    PA
                     affect final milestone
                     (good cause for delay)
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                                             AO                     PA
                                             Show cause order       D
                     Missed milestone by more
                    than 30 days or will      Show cause order       D
                     affect final milestone
                     (no good cause for delay)
                                             Civil action           D
                                             Terminate service      D
                     Recurring violation or
Compliance schedules violation of schedule in  Civil action           D
                     AO
                                             Criminal investigation D
                                             Terminate service      D
 
      (14)   Other permit violations.
Noncompliance Nature of the Violation Enforcement Response Options Personnel
Noncompliance            Nature of the Violation Enforcement Response Personnel
                                                 Options
Wastestreams are diluted Initial violation       Phone call           PA
in lieu of treatment
                                               NOV                  PA
                                               NOV with fine        PA
                                               AO                   PA
Wastestreams are diluted Recurring violation     NOV with fine        PA
in lieu of treatment
                                               AO                   PA
                                               Show cause order     D
                                               Terminate service    D
Failure to mitigate
noncompliance or halt    Does not result in harm NOV                  PA
production
                                               NOV with fine        PA
                                               AO to comply         PA
                                               Show cause order     D
                        Does result in harm     NOV with fine        PA
                                               AO to comply         PA
                                               Show cause order     D
                                               Civil action         D
                                               Terminate service    D
Failure to properly
operate and maintain     Does not result in harm NOV                  PA
pretreatment facility
                                               NOV with fine        PA
                        Does result in harm     NOV with fine        PA
                                               AO to comply         PA
                                               Civil action         D
 
      (15)   Violations detected during site visits.
Noncompliance Nature of the Violation Enforcement Response Options Personnel
Noncompliance         Nature of the Violation  Enforcement Response   Personnel
                                               Options
Entry/records denial  Entry denied or consent  Obtain warrant and     PA, D
                      denied                   return to IU for entry
                                             NOV and AO with fine   PA
                                               Obtain warrant and
                     Copies of records denied return fo IU to obtain PA, D
                                               records
                                             NOV and AO with fine   PA
Illegal discharge     No harm to POTW or       NOV                    PA
                      environment
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                                             AO                     PA
                      Discharge causes harm or
                     evidence of intent or    NOV and AO with fine   PA
                      negligence
                                             Civil action           D
                                             Criminal investigation D
                     Recurring, violation of  Terminate service      D
                      AO
Improper sampling     Unintentional sampling   Verbal notice          PA
                      at incorrect location
                                             NOV                    PA
                     Unintentionally using    Verbal notice          PA
                      incorrect sample type
                                             NOV                    PA
                      Unintentionally using
                     incorrect sampling       Verbal notice          PA
                      techniques
                                             NOV                    PA
                      Inspecting person finds
Inadequate            files incomplete to      Verbal notice          PA
recordkeeping         missing (no evidence of
                      intent)
                                             NOV and AO to produce  PA
                                               files
                     Recurring                NOV and AO to produce  PA
                                               files
                                             NOV with fine          PA
                      Inspecting person finds
                     files incomplete to      Show cause order       D
                      missing (evidence of
                      intent)
                                             Civil action           D
                                             Criminal investigation D
Failure to report     Inspection detects       NOV                    PA
additional monitoring additional files
                     Recurring                NOV                    PA
                                             NOV with fine          PA
 
      (16)   Timeframes for responses.
         (a)   All violations will be identified and documented within ten days
of receiving compliance information.
         (b)   Initial enforcement responses (involving contact with the
industrial user and requesting information on corrective or preventative
actions) will occur within 15 days of the violation detection.
         (c)   Follow up actions for continuing or reoccurring violations will
be taken within 60 days of the initial enforcement response. For all continuing
violations, the response will include a compliance schedule to eliminate the
cause of noncompliance.
         (d)   Violations which threaten health, property or the environment
are considered emergencies and will receive an immediate response such as
halting the discharge or terminating service.
         (e)   All violations meeting the criteria for significant
noncompliance per this section, will be addressed with the appropriate order
within 30 days of the identification of significant noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 50.107) (Ord. 11-2009, passed 2-19-2009)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 50.145 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Director shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit or order
issued hereunder. Users shall allow the Director ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Director shall be permitted to enter without
delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Director shall have the right to set up on the user’s property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user’s operations.
   (C)   The Director may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated once per year to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Director and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Director access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.120) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.146 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   The Director of Engineering and Utilities and other duly authorized
employees of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and
state regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification are
authorized to obtain information including, but not limited to, copying of
records concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial wastes which
have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater
collection system.
(Prior Code, § 50.121) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.147 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and indication shall be permitted to enter all private properties
through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but
not limited to, construction, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portions of the wastewater facilities lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.122) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.148 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
50.147, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company. The city shall
secure the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required by these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.123) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.149 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Director has been refused access to a building, structure or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, the Director may seek issuance of a search warrant
from the office of the Prosecutor of Boyd County, Kentucky.
(Prior Code, § 50.124) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 50.160 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Director may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit or a general permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge
permit, or a previous general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user first files a
satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Director to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
(Prior Code, § 50.130) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.161 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Director may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge or a general permit to any user who has failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit,
or a previous general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that
it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to
the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Prior Code, § 50.131) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 50.175 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) of this section are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Director
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Prior Code, § 50.140) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.176 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
50.020(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
50.020(B)(3) through (B)(7) if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the City of
Ashland was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 50.141) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.177 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Bypass; violation. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Director, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Director of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24 hours from the
time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The
written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the Director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 50.142) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
CHARGES; FEES
§ 50.190 FEES.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, the rates and charges
for sewer services sold by the Department of Utilities which shall be computed
and billed monthly and shall be based upon the meter readings for water used or
supplied each such lot, parcel of land, building or premises, shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Inside corporate limits.
      (1)   Fees for sewer service within the corporate limits of the city
effective July 1, 2024:
         (a)   Minimum bill: $7.45 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (2)   Fees for sewer service within the corporate limits of the city
effective January 1, 2025:
         (a)   Minimum bill: $8.20 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (3)   Fees for sewer service within the corporate limits of the city
effective July 1, 2025:
         (a)   Minimum bill: $9.02 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (4)   Fees for sewer service within the corporate limits of the city
effective January 1, 2026:
         (a)   Minimum bill: $9.92 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (5)   Fees for sewer service within the corporate limits of the city
effective January 1, 2027:
         (a)   Minimum bill: $10.32 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (6)   Fees for sewer service within the corporate limits of the city
effective January 1, 2028:
         (a)   Minimum bill: $11.76 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Minimum bills.
   (B)   Outside corporate limits. Fees for sewer service outside the corporate
limits shall be one and one-half times the fees for sewer services inside the
corporate limits of the city in effect at the time of the service. Minimum bill
for sewer services outside the corporate limits of the city shall be for 2,000
gallons of usage.
(Prior Code, § 50.150) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 50.191 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMMONIA NITROGEN. The quantity of nitrogen in the form of ammonia (NH3-N)
as determined by laboratory analysis expressed in parts per million by weight.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) (also known as BOD). The quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure, five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and
concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (or COD). COD of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 250 mg/l BOD and 250 mg/
l suspended solids and 20 mg/l ammonia nitrogen.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
      OIL AND GREASE. A group of substances, including hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a
solvent from the acidified sample that is not volatilized during the laboratory
test procedures. Oil and greases are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids
(TSS), oil and grease or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) and thiocyanate (SCN) in
concentrations which exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where
authorized by the control authority, payment of a surcharge will authorize the
discharge of the referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause
pass through or interference.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
      THIOCYANATE. The quantity of thiocyanate (SCN) as determined by
laboratory analysis expressed in parts per million by weight.
   (B)   Surcharges.
      (1)   (a)   Sewage or industrial wastes above normal domestic wastewater
concentrations as defined herein but acceptable for discharge into the sewer
system shall be subject to a surcharge.
         (b)   Maximum allowable concentrations without surcharges:
 
Parameter                Limits Units
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) 20     mg/l
BOD                      250    mg/l
COD                      658    mg/l
Oil and grease (total)   50     mg/l
Suspended solids (total) 250    mg/l
Thiocyanate              0      mg/l
 
      (2)   (a)   Any user discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum
allowable concentration as noted above, shall be subject to a surcharge fee for
each pound loading over and above the set limit as listed below:
 
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N)        $0.5327/pound
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) $0.2193/pound
Oil and grease                  $0.5007/pound
Suspended solids (Total)        $0.2706/pound
Thiocyanate                     As stated below
 
         (b)   A unit weight of thiocyanate will produce 0.24 unit weight of
ammonia and therefore 24% of all thiocyanate loading shall be surcharged as
ammonia.
      (C)   Other industrial pretreatment charges. In addition to the above,
all users shall pay a separate sewer user charge, fee or assessment for
monitoring, inspections, surveillance, discharge reviews, construction,
appeals, permit applications, consulting engineering and the like as
established by separate ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 50.151) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 50.192 SEWER DISTRICT FEES.
   Per contracts with city.
(Prior Code, § 50.152) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 50.193 OTHER CHARGES.
   (A)   Tap fees. In order that new customers share in system development
costs already borne by existing customers it is established that on and after
the effective date of this subchapter, the minimum rates and charges payable in
advance for sewer taps outside the city shall be as follows:
 
Water Meter Size Sewer Tap Fees
5/8 x 3/4 in.    $410
1 in.            $770
2 in.            $2,830
4 in.            $11,200
6 in.            $25,360
 
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   On or after the effective date of this subchapter, the minimum
rates and charges payable in advance for actual sewer service installations
which shall be separate charges from tap fees shall be as follows:
 
Sewer Connection Fees
Sewer Tap Size Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
4 in. or 6 in. $1,800             $2,200
Over 6 in.     Actual cost        Actual cost + 10%
 
      (2)   If the actual cost of such sewer service installation exceeds the
minimum charges fixed above, the city reserves the right to charge the actual
costs of labor and fringes, materials and equipment.
      (3)   In addition to the above charges, the applicant shall pay all costs
for pavement removal and restoration of whatsoever description or nature.
      (4)   All costs for sewer connection(s) shall be paid at the time the
customer applies for a water tap.
   (C)   Combined sewer overflow (CSO) surcharge for sewer service inside and
outside the city limits effective April 1, 2010 and January 1, 2015.
      (1)   In order to cover the cost of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s unfunded mandate for CSO reduction and to comply with the consent
judgment issued by the court it is established that a surcharge of $2.50 per
1,000 gallons be added to all city sewer service customers effective April 1,
2010.
The surcharge shall be increased to $3.50 per 1,000 gallons effective January
1, 2015.
      (2)   All monies collected for this surcharge shall be placed in a
separate account and only used for CSO reduction projects necessary to comply
with the consent judgement issued by the court.
      (3)   The surcharge shall be removed from all city sewer service
customers after all CSO reduction projects necessary to comply with the consent
judgement issued by the court have been completed and paid.
   (D)   Charges for all hauled wastewater. The current rate for hauled
wastewater is $38.13. Effective July 1, 2023, all hauled wastewater shall be
subject to a rate of $41.94 per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 50.153) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 50.194 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Unusual circumstances. The City Manager or his or her designee is
authorized under unusual and/or special circumstances, non-reoccurring and rare
in nature, to provide reasonable adjustments based upon such mitigating
conditions which appear to require such adjustment to a utility bill. The
burden of proof shall rest with the customer and there is absolutely no
obligation on the city to provide any such adjustment. The City Manager or his
or her designee shall maintain a file of any such adjustments granted under
this policy for review by the Board of City Commissioners.
   (B)   High usage adjustments.
      (1)   An adjustment may be made to individual residential and commercial
(not industrial) water billings if a high usage occurs which causes volume to
exceed 200% of the average usage during the previous 12 months. An adjustment
may be made for any amount over the 200% of the average bill, however, no bill
so adjusted shall be reduced to less than 3,000 gallons. The city may determine
to extend this adjustment to more than one billing if it appears to be part of
the same occasion.
      (2)   This adjustment may only be granted once every five years to the
same household which shall include husband and wife as if they had each
received an adjustment. No additional adjustment during this five-year period
shall be made when the city determines that the customer of record was changed
while a previous adjustee still resides at the same location.
      (3)   If the adjustment involves rental property, the adjustment shall be
recorded against the rental unit for the five-year period rather than the
landlord’s name. At the same time, the renter’s name shall be listed as a
customer of record who received an adjustment.
      (4)   Any adjustment under this policy requires the approval of the
Finance Director or his or her appointee.
   (C)   Pool filling adjustment. Where no pool water drains to the sanitary
sewer, one annual adjustment for permanent in-ground and/or above ground pools
may be made to sewer billing only following prior arrangement with the city.
   (D)   Sewer leak adjustment. An adjustment may be made to the sewer billing
if a leak occurs which does not send water to the sanitary and/or combination
sewer. The sewer portion of the bill will be adjusted to the customer’s average
bill.
(Prior Code, § 50.154) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.205 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or a general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Director may serve upon that user a
written notice of violation. Within 15 days of the receipt of such notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Director. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user
of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice
of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Director
to take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the City
of Ashland’s enforcement response plan. Generally, enforcement actions will be
issued per the City of Ashland’s enforcement response plan, but the city
withholds the right to escalate enforcement if the violations persist or the
explanation and/or plan are not adequate, the city’s response may be more
formal and commitments (or schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be
established in an enforceable document. The enforcement response selected will
be related to the seriousness of the violation. Enforcement response may be
further escalated if compliance is not achieved expeditiously after the initial
action.
   (C)   Any user discharging raw sewage, due to a broken or defective sewer
line(s) which in the opinion of the Director may cause a health hazard or
dangerous environment, shall within 15 days after receiving written notice,
make all necessary repairs. If, after the 15-day notice, corrective action has
not been taken, then the Director shall have the authority to disconnect the
water service to the affected residence or premises until such time all repairs
are made to the satisfaction of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.180) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.206 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Director may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
50.208 and
50.209 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Prior Code, § 50.181) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.207 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Director of Engineering and Utilities or his or her designee may
issue to any user who causes or contributes to violations of these regulations,
wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by
the Director regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show causes,
before the Director of Engineering and Utilities, why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer
of the industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement
action may be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to these regulations, testimony taken
must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded,
will be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing
upon payment to the charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 50.182) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.208 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or a
general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Director may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 50.183) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.209 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or a
general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Director may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all
such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 50.184) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.210 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Written notice. Any user found to be violating any provision of these
regulations or an individual wastewater discharge permit, or a general permit
or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the Director of Engineering and
Utilities or his or her designee with written notice stating the nature of the
violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon receipt of
this notice.
   (B)   Fine. When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or a general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Director may fine such user in an
amount not to exceed $1,000. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation,
per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge
limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (C)   Reconsideration of fine. Users desiring to dispute such fines must
file a written request for the Director to reconsider the fine along with full
payment of the fine amount within 15 days of being notified of the fine. Where
a request has merit, the Director may convene a hearing on the matter. In the
event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest
accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Director may add the costs
of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
(Prior Code, § 50.185) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.211 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Director may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Director may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice and
opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Director may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance
of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its
receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Director may allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Director that the period of endangerment has passed, unless
the termination proceedings in §
50.212 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Director prior to the date of any show
cause or termination hearing under §
50.207 or
50.212.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Prior Code, § 50.186) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.212 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
50.085, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit or general
permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
50.020 through
50.030 of this chapter.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
50.207 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Director shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 50.187) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 50.225 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Director finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or a
general permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Director may petition the Boyd Circuit Court through the City
Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
individual wastewater discharge permit, the general permit, order or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Director may
also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Prior Code, § 50.195) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.226 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user who has significantly violated or continued to violate these
regulations or any order permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the Director
of Engineering and Utilities for a civil penalty of not more than $10,000 per
day plus actual damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long
as the violation continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue
shall be deemed separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty
and damages, the city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court
reporter’s fees and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   The city may petition the court to impose, assess and recover such
sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take into account all
relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent of harm
caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic benefit
gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by the user, the
compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
   (C)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Prior Code, § 50.196) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.227 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$10,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year, or
both.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least $10,000, or be
subject to imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. This penalty shall
be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property
damage available under state law.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit or general permit or order issued hereunder, or who
falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than $10,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.
   (D)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $10,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than three years, or both.
(Prior Code, § 50.197) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 50.228 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Director
may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the city’s enforcement response plan. However, the Director may take other
action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the Director
is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user.
(Prior Code, § 50.198) (Ord. 62-2012, passed 8-16-2012)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Addition of fluoride to water supply
   
51.02   Trespass on waterworks property
   
51.03   Use of defective or incorrect meters prohibited
Waterworks Rules and Regulations
   
51.15   Adoption by reference
   
51.16   Copies on file
   
51.17   Enforcement
Rates and Charges
   
51.30   Fees
   
51.31   Water district fees
   
51.32   Service charges
   
51.33   Tap fees
   
51.34   Connection charges
   
51.35   Water meter test fees
   
51.36   Adjusting meter pits
   
51.37   Monthly fire protection meter charges
   
51.38   Hydrant meter
Cross-reference:
   General utility regulations; billing, see
Chapter 55
Statutory reference:
   Utilities in cities, see KRS Chapter 96
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO WATER SUPPLY.
   The City Manager is authorized and directed, on receiving the consent and
approval of the State Board of Health and after proper provisions have been
made therefor, to introduce approximately 1.0 to 1.2 parts of fluoride into
each million parts of water being distributed in the water supply system of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 9-1952, passed 2-12-1952)
§ 51.02 TRESPASS ON WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass on the property, plants and
reservoirs of the municipal waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 37-1949, passed 7-12-1949) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.03 USE OF DEFECTIVE OR INCORRECT METERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a defective or incorrect gas,
electric or water meter and thereby extort from any person, pay for more gas,
water or electricity than is actually used or consumed. The Board of
Commissioners shall have power to appoint an inspector of meters for the city
who shall have the right to inspect any and all meters of whatsoever kind in
use in the city on request by the party using the same and the inspector shall
have the power to condemn any meter of whatsoever kind that may be defective or
incorrect. Any meter so condemned shall be immediately removed by the person
who is the owner thereof and replaced by a correct meter and the expense of
examination of same shall be paid by the offending person.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) Penalty, see § 51.99
WATERWORKS RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations for the operation and control of the municipally
owned waterworks and water distribution system of the city, attached to
Ordinance 39-1959 as part thereof, together with the Foreword and Appendix
thereof are hereby adopted in their entirety by reference by the Board of
Commissioners of the city and the future administration and operation of the
waterworks and water distribution system shall be in conformity therewith and
in conformity with any amendments thereof which may hereafter be adopted by the
Board. (Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 39-1959, passed 7-27-1959) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 COPIES ON FILE.
   Copies of the rules and regulations adopted by §
51.15 shall be printed in pamphlet form, and the mimeographed copies, together
with the printed copies, shall be signed by the City Manager and the Mayor, and
shall be attested by the City Clerk and kept on file at all times for the use
of interested parties in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 39-1959, passed 7-27-1959)
§ 51.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager, Director of Utilities and all other officers, agents and
employees of the city within the Department of Utilities, Division of
Waterworks, are hereby charged with the enforcement of the rules and
regulations adopted by §
51.15.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. 39-1959, passed 7-27-1959)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.30 FEES.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, the rates and charges
for water sold by the Department of Utilities of the city, shall be as follows:
   (A)   Inside corporate limits. Fees for water service within the corporate
limits of the city effective July 1, 2024:
Administrative and billing charge $8.61/mo.
User charges:
   0 to 2,000 gallons          $8.72 per 1,000 gallons
   2,001 to 10,000 gallons     $6.56 per 1,000 gallons
   10,001 to 100,000 gallons   $5.31 per 1,000 gallons
   Over 100,000 gallons        $4.29 per 1,000 gallons
Minimum bill                      $17.33 per month
Notes:
   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons
   Minimum bills
 
   (B)   Outside corporate limits. Fees for water service outside the corporate
limits of the city effective July 1, 2024:
Administrative and billing charge $8.61/mo.
User charges:
   0 to 2,000 gallons          $14.83 per 1,000 gallons
   2,001 to 10,000 gallons     $11.10 per 1,000 gallons
   10,001 to 100,000 gallons   $9 per 1,000 gallons
   Over 100,000 gallons        $7.29 per 1,000 gallons
Minimum bill                      $38.27 per month
Notes:
   Each user charge per 2,000 gallons
   Minimum bills
 
(Prior Code, § 51.25) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024
§ 51.31 WATER DISTRICT FEES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Water district fees shall be $4.76 per 1,000 gallons effective upon
adoption and publication of this section and approval of the Public Service
Commission (PSC) and any other required regulatory authority.
      (2)   User charge per 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   Cannonsburg/Big Sandy Water District fees.
      (1)   (a)   Water district fees shall be $3.64 per 1,000 gallons
effective upon adoption and publication of this section and approval of the
Public Service Commission (PSC) and any other required regulatory authority.
         (b)   User charge per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   (a)   Water district fees shall be $4.24 per 1,000 gallons
effective January 1, 2026 upon adoption and publication of this section and
approval of the Public Service Commission (PSC) and any other required
regulatory authority.
         (b)   User charge per 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   (a)   Water district fees shall be $4.76 per 1,000 gallons
effective January 1, 2027 upon adoption and publication of this section and
approval of the Public Service Commission (PSC) and any other required
regulatory authority.
         (b)   User charge per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024
§ 51.32 SERVICE CHARGES.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, the following service
charges shall be as follows. These service charges shall be charged for each
trip to your residence and/or business, except for emergencies and/or
authenticated repairs.
   (A)   During regular work hours Monday through Friday, except holidays: $20.
   (B)   After regular work hours or on weekends or holidays: $60.
(Prior Code, § 51.27) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 51.33 TAP FEES.
   In order that new customers share in system development costs already borne
by existing customers it is established that on and after the effective date of
this chapter, the minimum rates and charges payable in advance for water taps
outside the city, to be determined by the size of the domestic water service
meter, shall be as follows:
 
Domestic Meter Size Tap Fees
5/8 x 3/4 in.       $500
1 in.               $800
2 in.               $3,720
4 in.               $14,270
6 in.               $33,970
 
(Prior Code, § 51.28) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 51.34 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   On or after the effective date of this subchapter, the minimum rates
and charges payable in advance for actual water service installations and/or
requested relocations, which shall be separate charges from tap fees shall be
as follows:
 
Water Tap Size      Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
5/8 x 3/4 in. meter $1,610             $1,870
1 in. meter         $1,850             $2,140
2 in. meter         $4,250             $4,640
Over 2 in. meter    Actual cost        Actual cost + 10%
 
   (B)   If the actual cost of such water service installation exceeds the
minimum charges fixed above, the city reserves the right to charge the actual
costs of labor and fringes, materials and equipment.
   (C)   In addition to the above charges, the applicant shall pay all costs
for pavement removal and restoration of whatsoever description or nature.
   (D)   In cases of multiple meters in which the actual cost of such water
service installation is below the above listed charges, the City Manager may
reduce the charges to the actual costs of labor and fringes, materials and
equipment provided that, in the sole opinion of the city, the installation is
feasible, practical, and not contrary to good operating practice, and will be
in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Ashland Water Works.
(Prior Code, § 51.29) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 51.35 WATER METER TEST FEES.
   (A)   Fee inside city: $15.
   (B)   Fee outside city: $20.
   (C)   Fee will be refunded if meter is determined to be inaccurate and
overstating consumption.
(Prior Code, § 51.30) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 51.36 ADJUSTING METER PITS.
   The cost of adjusting meters to grade shall be the actual cost. ACTUAL COST
is defined as all costs incurred to complete installation including, but not
limited to, labor, materials and equipment use charges.
(Prior Code, § 51.31) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 51.37 MONTHLY FIRE PROTECTION METER CHARGES.
   (A)   Monthly fire protection charges inside city. The monthly fire
protection meter charges shall be based upon the minimum bill or actual usage,
whichever amount is greater.
   (B)   Monthly fire protection (sprinkler) charges outside city. The monthly
fire protection meter charges shall be based upon the minimum bill or actual
usage, whichever amount is greater.
Meter Size Minimum Bill
Meter Size    Minimum Bill
5/8 x 3/4 in. $33.13
1 in.         $40
1-1/2 in.     $57
2 in.         $73
3 in.         $116
4 in.         $172
6 in.         $325
8 in.         $539
10 in.        $1,210
12 in.        $1,650
 
(Prior Code, § 51.32) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 51.38 HYDRANT METER.
   (A)   The city may authorize a meter for temporary installation of a fire
hydrant. Any individual requesting and using such meter shall pay the
applicable user charges, with a minimum charge of $3.50 per day, a $30 fee each
for, turn on and turn off, and shall provide a $250 deposit subject to all
other conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Monthly metered fire hydrant - outside city.
      (1)   Any governmental agency or fire district requesting the
installation of a fire hydrant(s) outside of the city limits shall pay for all
labor and material required for the water line extension and initial
installation of the fire hydrant.
      (2)   Said governmental agency or fire district shall pay a minimum
monthly water bill or actual usage, whichever amount is greater.
      (3)   Said governmental agency or fire district shall be responsible for
all repairs and/or replacement of such fire hydrant, and will be billed as
such. The governmental agency or fire district shall be responsible for all
repairs from the water main to and including the hydrant. The city will perform
all repairs as requested by the governmental agency and/or fire district and
bill the agency or fire district accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 51.33) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
CHAPTER 52: STORM WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose; intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Responsibility for administration
   
52.05   Severability
   
52.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
52.07   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.08   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.09   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.10   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.11   Requirements to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
52.12   Watercourse protection
   
52.13   Notification of spills
   
52.14   Enforcement
   
52.15   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
52.16   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
52.17   Injunctive relief
   
52.18   Appeal of notice of violation
   
52.19   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
52.20   Remedies not exclusive
Post-Construction Storm Water Management
   
52.35   Introduction; purpose
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Applicability
   
52.38   Other laws and permits
   
52.39   Implementation of storm water management program and BMPs
   
52.40   Storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) requirements
   
52.41   SWPPP review and approval process
   
52.42   Maintenance of storm water management facilities
   
52.43   Inspection
   
52.44   As-built drawing requirements
   
52.45   Enforcement; stop-work order; revocation of SWPPP
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the City of Ashland, Kentucky through the regulation
of non-storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum
extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. City of Ashland, Public Services Department
employees are responsible for the enforcement of this chapter. The Director of
Public Services shall designate those employees for enforcement.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to Kentucky pollutant discharge
elimination system (KPDES) construction permits and/or City of Ashland site
development permit. Currently these include construction projects resulting in
land disturbance of one acre or more for the KPDES permit and any land
disturbance requires the city permit. Such activities include, but are not
limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
52.10.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized agent for the city; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26 (b)(14).
   KENTUCKY POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (KPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under
authority delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b) that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the Commonwealth, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis. The KPDES
permit replaces the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
storm water discharge permit in Kentucky.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANTS. Anything which causes or contributes to the alteration of the
physical, thermal, chemical or biological quality of or the contamination of
any water within the city, that renders the water harmful, detrimental or
injurious to humans, animal life, vegetation, property or to the public health,
safety or welfare, or impairs the usefulness or the public enjoyment of the
water for any lawful or reasonable purpose. POLLUTANTS may include, but are not
limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids;
soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, emulsifier or other cleaning substance;
non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish,
garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, and accumulations, so
that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides,
herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal
coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes
and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious
or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
   WATERS OF THE CITY OF ASHLAND. Groundwater, percolating or otherwise, lakes,
ponds, impounded reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks, wetlands,
marshes and all other bodies of surface water including the bed and banks of
all watercourses and bodies of surface water that are wholly or partially
inside or bordering the boundary of the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted
herein.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Public Services Department of the city shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed
upon the Public Services Department may be delegated in writing by the Director
to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.05 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.07 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or into any watercourses, any materials,
including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards,
other than storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if de-chlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities and any other water source not containing pollutants;
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the city Department of Public
Services as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Public Services Department prior to the time of the test;
and
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an KPDES/city site development permit, waiver or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the Kentucky Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger
is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has
been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past,
regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices
applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
city’s Public Services Department may, without prior notice, suspend MS4
discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the MS4 or waters of the city. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the city, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The Public Services Department will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city for
a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
city’s Public Services Department.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity KPDES/city site
development storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of
such permit. Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the city prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Prior Code, § 52.09) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.10 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The city’s Public Services Department shall be permitted to enter
and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may
be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the Department.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the authorized representatives ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
KPDES/city site development permit to discharge storm water, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by city ordinance, state and
federal law.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm water
discharge.
      (4)   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city’s Public Services
Department and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall
be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the designated employees access to
a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a KPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the city and reasonable access to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.11 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city shall adopt requirements identifying best management practices for
any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the city.
The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid KPDES/
city site development permit authorizing the discharge of storm water
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliant with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with
requirements of the required permits.
(Prior Code, § 52.11) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.12 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.13 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the city,
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment
and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous
materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of
the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the city in person or by
phone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in person
or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the
Department of Public Services, Storm Water Coordinator, P.O. Box 1839, Ashland,
Kentucky 41105 within three business days of the phone notice. If the discharge
of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. The records shall be retained for at least three years.
(Prior Code, § 52.13) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the city may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. The notice may require
without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work may be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (C)   The city may commence appropriate legal action and/or seek equitable
relief, including injunctive relief, against any person who fails to abate a
violation and/or restore an affected property prior to the deadline established
in the notice of violation. The notice of violation shall be mailed to the
property owner at the last known address listed on the current tax assessment
roll, or by personally serving, or by causing to be personally served, the
property owner with a written notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.15 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
days of the decision reached at the appeal hearing upholding the original
violation, then representatives of the city shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the city representatives or designated contractor to enter upon the premises
for the purposes set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within ten days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the city or by the expiration of the
time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment
against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount
of the assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability
shall be paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 6%
per annum shall be assessed on the balance due, beginning 30 days following the
due date stated in the notification from the city.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.17 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 52.17) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination directly tot the Ashland Public Services Department Director. The
notice of appeal must be received within days ten days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the Director or his or her
designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice
of appeal. The decision reached at the appeal hearing shall be final.
   (B)   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized
by this chapter, the city may impose, upon a violator, alternative compensatory
actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
creek cleanup and the like.
(Prior Code, § 52.18) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.19 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter that is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 52.19) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
§ 52.20 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005)
POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 52.35 INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Post-construction storm water management refers to activities that
take place after construction occurs, and includes structural and non-
structural controls to obtain permanent improvements in storm water quality and
storm water rate/volume reduction over the life of the land use.
   (B)   Land development projects increase impervious area which alters the
hydrologic and hydraulic response of watersheds and increases storm water
runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and sediment
transport and deposition.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum storm water
management requirements and controls to safeguard the general health, safety
and welfare of the public residing in the watersheds within the city. The
requirements set forth herein are intended to:
      (1)   Develop and implement strategies which include a combination of
structural and/or non- structural best management practices that prevent or
minimize water quality impacts in new developments and redevelopments;
      (2)   Ensure long term inspection, operation and maintenance of BMPs; and
      (3)   Comply with the Clean Water Act and the Kentucky pollutant
discharge elimination system (KPDES) general permit for storm water discharges
from municipal storm sewer systems (MS4s), for the purpose of protecting
rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds and all other bodies of surface or
underground water from degradation.
(Prior Code, § 52.30) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the Commonwealth. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control runoff.
   BLUE LINE STREAMS. Streams that are represented on the United States
Department of the Interior Geological Survey 1:24,000 quadrangle maps with a
blue line.
   CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. A person who has received erosion prevention and
sediment control (EPSC) training and is certified by the Ashland Public Works
Department or Kentucky Division of Water to inspect and maintain erosion and
sediment control practices.
   CHANNEL. A natural or constructed/human- made watercourse with definite bed
and banks to confine and convey continuously or periodically flowing water.
CHANNEL FLOW is that water which is flowing within the limits of the defined
channel.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Federal regulation that prohibits the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States unless said discharge is in
accordance with an NPDES permit.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CRITICAL AREA. A site difficult to stabilize due to exposed subsoil, steep
slope, extent of exposure or other conditions.
   DETENTION. The temporary delay of storm runoff prior to discharge into
receiving waters.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership or
trust involved in commencing proceedings to affect development of land for him,
her or others.
   DRAINAGE BASIN. A part of the surface of the earth that contributes surface
water runoff into a surface stream or a body of impounded surface water
together with all tributary surface streams and bodies of impounded surface
water.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   DRAINAGE/DRY WELL. A bored, drilled, driven, dug or naturally occurring
shaft or hole with a depth greater than the largest surface dimension; used to
drain surface fluid, primarily storm water runoff, into a subsurface formation.
   EPHEMERAL STREAM. A stream or part of a stream that flows only in direct
response to precipitation or snowmelt. Its channel is above the water table at
all times.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity, ice or any combination of those forces.
   EPSC PLAN. A set of plans prepared by or under the direction of a qualified
professional in the state indicating the specific measures and sequencing to be
used to control sediment and erosion on a development site during and after
construction.
   EXCAVATION. Any portion of land surface or area from which earth has been
removed or will be removed; the depth below original ground surface to
remaining surface.
   EXISTING GRADE. The slope or elevation of existing ground surface prior to
cutting or filling.
   FILL. Portion of land surface or area to which soil, rock or other materials
have been or will be added; height above original ground surface after the
material has been or will be added.
   FINISHED GRADE. The final slope or elevation of the ground surface after
cutting or filling.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat or lowland area adjoining a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other body of standing water which has been or may be
covered temporarily by floodwater. For purposes of this subchapter, the
FLOODPLAIN is defined as the 100-year floodplain having a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling or stockpiling of earth or land to
create new grades.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A term applied to any ground or structural surface that
water cannot penetrate or through which water penetrates with great difficulty.
   KENTUCKY DOW GENERAL PERMIT. Agreement between the Kentucky Division of
Water (DOW) and the permittee (City of Ashland) which authorizes the discharge
of pollutants in storm water discharges associated with Phase II Municipal
Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s). The general permit requires the city to develop a
storm water quality management program that is designed to reduce the discharge
of pollutants to the maximum extent practicable (MEP).
   LAND DISTURBANCE. The purposeful act of clearing, grubbing, excavating or
grading; disrupting ground surface by or for construction activities, including
construction access/roads, staging and storage sites producing significant
areas of exposed soil and soil piles.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE (MEP). The water quality control and treatment
standard for storm water discharges from the municipal separate storm sewer
system.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). EPA’s program to
control the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States. NPDES is a
part of the federal CWA, which requires point and non-point source dischargers
to obtain permits. These permits are referred to as NPDES permits.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). A formal notice to the KYDOW that a construction
project seeking coverage under a general permit is about to begin.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT). A formal notice to KYDOW that construction
project is complete and seeking release for the EPSC and the state general
permit.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site by
filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   PERMITTING AGENCY. The city’s Public Works Department responsible for review
and approval of permits, SWPPP and EPSC plans.
   PERMIT PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of the next.
   PERMITTEE. The person, company, contractor or developer, who is responsible
for the land- disturbing activity.
   PUBLIC STORM DRAIN. Drain system provided and maintained by the city, that
is designed to help maintain storm water runoff and also provides inlets for
water to travel to holding areas attempting to remove excessive water from
streets and other areas.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation subject to erosion of
sedimentation as a result of cutting, filling, grading or other disturbance of
the soil.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Public Works Department for
the construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff, and grading.
   SITE WASTE CONTROL. The requirements set forth in this subchapter are also
intended to control or eliminate waste from construction site operators that
may cause adverse impacts to water quality.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land-disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading, and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings,
piers, or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of
accessory buildings such as garages.
   STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN (SMQMP). Written plan that details the
city’s “Storm Water Quality Management Program”. The plan is considered a
single document which consists of the six minimum control measures of MS4
program.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan required by Ashland
Public Works Department and the storm water regulations that includes a site
map(s), an identification of construction/contractor activities, storm water
conveyance systems and water quality control treatment systems. It includes
activities during construction to prevent erosion and infrastructure and non-
structural BMPs left in place after (post) construction that manage storm water
quality and reduce pollutants in storm water discharges. A SWPPP is more
comprehensive than an EPSC Plan.
   TEMPORARY PROTECTION. Short-term stabilization of erosive or sediment
producing areas.
   VEGETATIVE PROTECTION. Stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas
by covering the soil with any of the following materials: permanent seeding for
long-term vegetative cover, short-term seeding for temporary vegetative cover,
sodding, producing areas covered with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass,
tree planting, or other planting.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams, and bodies of water designated as part of the storm water
conveyance system.
   WATER WAY. A channel that conveys surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drain.
(Prior Code, § 52.31) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.37 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The subchapter shall apply to permanent structural and non-structural
BMPs in new development or redevelopment projects that disturb greater than one
acre, and projects disturbing less than one acre that are part of a larger
common plan of development. Projects include lands for residential, commercial,
industrial or institutional use, but do not apply to agricultural land
management practices. Exemption of agricultural land management practices does
not apply to illicit discharges.
   (B)   The subchapter seeks to ensure that post-construction SWPPP are
developed, reviewed and approved and storm water management facilities are
properly maintained through the execution of long-term maintenance agreements
and maintenance plans and management practices by property owner(s).
(Prior Code, § 52.32) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.38 OTHER LAWS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul
any other ordinance, regulation, permit or other provision of local, state or
federal law. The requirements of this subchapter should be considered minimum
requirements, and where any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other regulation, permit or law, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human
health and/or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
   (B)   Regulations, permits and erosion protection and sediment control
procedures for land disturbance activity and site work construction are
included in the city’s “Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control for Land
Disturbance Activity and Site Work Construction Ordinance”.
   (C)   Regulations to regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4
conveyance system by any user and the prohibition of illicit connections and
discharges to the MS4 conveyance system are included in the city’s “Illicit
Discharge Control Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 52.33) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.39 IMPLEMENTATION OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND BMPs.
   (A)   The Public Works Department is responsible for the implementation and
enforcement of this subchapter and Storm Water Quality Management Program for
the city.
   (B)   The Public Works Department shall implement the following:
      (1)   Establish policies, procedures, standards and criteria relating to
storm water runoff quality and quantity;
      (2)   Develop a local water quality treatment standard to manage runoff
through water quality control structures. The local standard, at a minimum,
shall be based on an analysis of precipitation records to determine the
equivalent surface depth of rainfall (e.g. 0.75 inches) produced from an
eightieth percentile precipitation event; the water quality standard shall
provide water treatment to the MEP for precipitation events equal to or less
than the eightieth percentile precipitation event; and
      (3)   Create a storm water management guidance design manual and
standards for development and redevelopment projects that address quantitative
controls for increased volume and rate of surface runoff and qualitative
controls that reduce or eliminate pollutants carried by runoff.
   (C)   Until such time existing regulations are modified or new storm water
quality and quantity policies, design criteria and standards are developed; to
address storm water quality management, reduce water quality impacts and
maintain pre-development runoff conditions, the Public Works Department may
require the design and implementation of structural and non-structural BMPs for
new and redevelopment projects.
   (D)   The design of structural and non-structural BMPs and preparation of
SWPPP shall be by a professional engineer licensed in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky to practice in the field of civil works, and be approved by the Public
Works Department. Structural and non-structural BMPs shall include, but be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Storm water control. Storm water control BMPs shall be utilized to
address runoff volume and rate, and remove pollutants. These BMP’s may include
detention facilities, extended detention basins, retention facilities,
hydrodynamic separators, first flush basins, infiltration trenches and drain
fields.
      (2)   Stream corridor protection. Stream corridor protection BMPs shall
be utilized to protect designated streams and waterways through conservation
methods. These methods may include buffer strips, greenways, vegetated
channels, stream bank stabilization and restoration.
      (3)   Impervious area runoff controls. Impervious area runoff controls
shall be utilized to address high levels of runoff quantity and quality
associated with high-density developments. These controls may include
preservation of open space, minimizing impervious surfaces, porous pavement,
utilization of grass swales instead of curb and gutter, reduced pavement widths
and similar measures.
      (4)   Discharge controls. Discharge control BMPs shall be utilized to
provide flow attenuation for post-development runoff. These BMPs may include
detention facilities, extended detention basins, retention facilities and
artificial wetlands.
(Prior Code, § 52.34) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.40 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   On development or redevelopment projects, the developer shall submit
SWPPP of the proposed BMPs prepared by a licensed engineer. The plans shall be
drawn to an appropriate scale and shall include plan and profile views,
sections, details, notes and other information necessary for the installation
of the BMPs.
   (B)   The developer’s submittal for SWPPP review may include a plan review
fee no greater than $50. This review fee is in addition to any other required
application or plan review fees.
(Prior Code, § 52.35) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.41 SWPPP REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Public Works will review each SWPPP submittal to determine its
conformance with the provisions of this subchapter. Acceptance indicates that
minimum requirements or intent are met and does not imply a guarantee of
performance.
   (B)   Based on the review of the permit application, the permitting agency,
will:
      (1)   Accept the SWPPP submittal;
      (2)   Accept the SWPPP submittal subject to such reasonable conditions as
may be necessary to meet the requirements/intent of the objectives of this
subchapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
      (3)   Deny the SWPPP submittal, indicating the reason(s) and procedure
for submitting a revised SWPPP and/or submission.
(Prior Code, § 52.36) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.42 MAINTENANCE OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Maintenance/storm water easement. The applicant or owner of the site
shall execute a maintenance easement agreement that shall be binding on all
subsequent owners of land served by the storm water management facility. The
agreement shall provide for access to the facility at reasonable times for
periodic inspection by city, or their contractor or agent, to ensure that the
facility is maintained in proper working condition to meet design standards and
any other provisions established by this subchapter and to, if necessary,
implement emergency repairs to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public. The easement dimensions shall be as directed by Public Works and the
easement agreement shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk, with a
copy provided to city.
   (B)   Maintenance after construction. The owner or operator of permanent
storm water management practices installed in accordance with this subchapter
shall ensure they are operated and maintained to achieve the goals of this
subchapter. Proper operation and maintenance also includes a preventive/
corrective maintenance program and written procedures for operation and
maintenance and training new maintenance personnel.
   (C)   Maintenance agreements. The maintenance and proper operation of all
privately owned storm water management facilities, including nonstructural
practices, shall be ensured through the creation of a formal and enforceable
maintenance agreement that must be approved by Public Works Department and
recorded in the office of the County Clerk as a deed restriction on the
property prior to final SWPPP approval. This agreement will include any and all
maintenance/storm water easements required to access and inspect the storm
water management practices, and will outline the procedures and schedule to be
followed to perform routine maintenance as necessary to ensure proper
functioning of the storm water management practice. In addition, the legally
binding agreement shall identify the parties responsible for the proper
maintenance of all storm water treatment practices and include plans for
periodic inspections by the owners, or their designated agent, to ensure proper
performance of the facility.
   (D)   Requirements of maintenance agreements. All storm water management
facilities must undergo, at the minimum, an annual inspection to document
maintenance and repair needs to ensure compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter and accomplishment of its purposes. These needs may include: removal
of silt, litter and other debris from all catch basins, inlets and drainage
pipes; grass cutting and vegetation removal; and necessary replacement of
landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must be repaired and restored
as soon as possible. Public Works Department shall be notified after repair
work has been completed to perform a follow-up inspection. The inspection and
maintenance requirement may be increased by Public Works Department as deemed
necessary to ensure proper functioning of the storm water management facility.
Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a storm water
management facility shall make records of the installation and of all
maintenance and repairs, and shall retain the records for at least five years.
These records shall be made available to Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 52.37) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.43 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Public Works Department designated agent shall make inspections as
deemed necessary to ensure the long term BMPs are being properly installed
during construction. If BMPs are not being installed per the approved SWPPP,
the developer/contractor shall be notified and enforcement actions shall be
taken.
   (B)   Upon completion of all site work and installation of long term BMPs,
the Public Works Department will make a final inspection to ensure BMPs have
been installed and are operating correctly in accordance with the SWPPP.
   (C)   The Public Works Department shall make annual inspections thereafter
to ensure the permanent storm water management facility is operating properly.
(Prior Code, § 52.38) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.44 AS-BUILT DRAWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the final release of any bonds or other fiscal security that
may be required for new developments or redevelopment projects or prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the project developer and/or contractor
shall submit to the Public Works Department as-builts of the newly constructed
site improvements and storm water facilities.
   (B)   The as-built condition of these storm water facilities and other site
improvements shall be certified by a professional engineer and must be reviewed
and approved by the Public Works Department. As-builts shall be provided in
both paper copy and electronic format, in a version acceptable to the Public
Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 52.39) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.45 ENFORCEMENT; STOP-WORK ORDER; REVOCATION OF SWPPP.
   In the event that any person holding an approved SWPPP pursuant to this
subchapter violates the terms of the SWPPP or maintenance agreement in such a
manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of the
public near the development site or vicinity so as to be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity,
the Public Works Department may suspend or revoke SWPPP.
(Prior Code, § 52.40) (Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-24-2010)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $200 nor more than $10,000. Each day
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of this chapter shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage caused to the city by reason of
such violation, including, but not limited to, any clean-up, evacuation,
administrative or other expenses, including legal expenses incurred. The City
Commission is hereby directed to initiate proceedings on behalf of the city in
any court having jurisdiction over such matters as are necessary to recover
costs to the city caused by said violation.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain
any grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any terms of §§
52.35 through
52.45.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.45 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and each day during which any
violation of any of the provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.45 is committed, continued or permitted, shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   Upon conviction of any such violation the person, partnership or
corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 for each
offense. (Note for each day that the prohibited action is continued, it shall
constitute a separate offense.)
      (4)   In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any
person, partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions
of this subchapter shall be required to bear the expense of such restoration.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. 168-2005, passed 11-3-2005; Ord. 64-2010, passed 6-
24-2010)
CHAPTER 53: FATS, OILS AND GREASE POLICY
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Control plan for (FOG) and food waste
   
53.04   General criteria
   
53.05   Design criteria
   
53.06   Grease trap maintenance
   
53.07   Additives
   
53.08   Chemical treatment
   
53.09   Sand, soil and oil interceptors
   
53.10   Control equipment
   
53.11   Alteration of control methods
   
53.12   FOG enforcement response plan
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to control discharges into the public
sewerage collection system and wastewater treatment plant that interfere with
the operations of the system, cause blockage and plugging of pipelines,
interfere with normal operation of pumps and their controls, and contribute
waste of a strength or form that either causes treatment difficulties or is
beyond the treatment capability of the wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   This policy may be reopened by the Director of Engineering and
Utilities for modification to incorporate any new or revised federal, state or
local requirements; or in general to reflect changes required to ensure the
proper administration and control of fats, oils and grease that are introduced
into the city’s publicly owned treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   25% RULE. A rule governing grease trap maintenance. It requires that the
depth of both bottom solids and floating oil/grease in a trap shall not equal
or be greater than 25% of the total operating depth of the trap. The operating
depth of a trap is the internal depth from the inlet or outlet water elevation
to the bottom of the trap.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Those facilities primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption
foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting,
toasting, or poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing,
and any other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food
product in or on a receptacle that requires washing. These facilities include
restaurants, cafeterias, hotels, motels, hospitals, nursing homes, schools,
grocery stores, prisons, jails, churches, camps, caterers, manufacturing plants
or any other sewer users as determined by the city’s Water Distribution and
Sewer Collection System Superintendent (WSS) who discharge applicable waste.
   GREASE. Material composed primarily of fats, oil and grease (FOG) from
animal or vegetable sources. The terms fats, oil and, grease shall be deemed as
GREASE by definition. GREASE does not include petroleum based products.
   GREASE TRAP. A device for separating and retaining waterborne greases and
grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also serve to
collect settlable solids, generated by and from food preparation activities,
prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system.
   OIL/WATER SEPARATOR. An approved and industry standard system that is
specifically designed and manufactured to separate oil from water. The system
shall allow the oil to be collected and removed on a regular basis as to
prevent it from being discharged into the waste water collection system. Only
OIL/WATER SEPARATORS manufactured for that specific operation will be approved.
Adequate support literature from the manufacturer will be required so as to
allow a proper review by the WSS or his or her designated official.
   USER. Any person or establishment including those located outside the
jurisdictional limits of the city who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the city’s wastewater collection
or treatment system, including persons who contribute such wastewater from
mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled waste water.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.03 CONTROL PLAN FOR (FOG) AND FOOD WASTE.
   (A)   Any new construction, renovation or expansion of food service
establishments shall be required to submit to the city a FOG and food waste
control plan that will effectively control the discharge of undesirable
materials into the wastewater collection system.
   (B)   Any existing food service facilities shall also be required to submit
a FOG and food waste control plan that will effectively control the discharge
of undesirable materials into the wastewater collection system. Existing
facilities shall not be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. There
will be no “grandfathering”.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.04 GENERAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Installation requirements.
      (1)   All existing, proposed or newly remodeled food service facilities
inside the city wastewater service area shall be required to install, at the
user’s expense an approved, properly operated and maintained grease trap.
      (2)   Under special circumstances an exemption to the installation
requirements may be granted. A formal request for a grease disposal waiver must
be submitted in writing to the City Director of Engineering and Utilities
(DEU). In the event that the grease disposal waiver is granted, the city
reserves the right to charge a monthly grease disposal elimination fee.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer flows. Sanitary sewer flows from toilets, urinals,
lavatories and the like shall not be discharged into the grease trap. These
flows shall be conveyed separately to the sanitary sewer service lateral.
   (C)   Floor drains. Only floor drains which discharge or have the potential
to discharge grease shall be connected to a grease trap.
   (D)   Garbage grinders/disposers. It is recommended that solid food waste
products be disposed of through normal solid waste/garbage disposal means. If a
grinder/disposal is used it must be connected to the grease trap. The use of
grinders is discouraged since it decreases the operational capacity of the
grease trap and will require an increased pumping frequency to ensure
continuous and effective operation.
   (E)   Dishwashers. Commercial dishwashers must be connected to the grease
trap. Dishwashers discharge soap and hot water which can melt grease and allow
it to pass through an undersized grease trap. Traps must be sized accordingly
to allow enough detention time to allow water to cool and grease to solidify
and float to the top of the trap. Water discharged into a grease trap with
temperatures exceeding 140°F is prohibited.
   (F)   Location. Grease traps shall be installed outside the building
upstream from the sanitary sewer service lateral connection. This will allow
easy access for inspection, cleaning, and removal of the intercepted grease at
any time. A grease trap may not be installed inside any part of a building
without written approval by the WSS.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.05 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Construction. Grease traps shall be constructed in accordance with the
city standards and shall have a minimum of two compartments with fittings
designed for grease retention. All grease removal devises or technologies shall
be subject to the written approval of the WSS. Such approval shall be based on
demonstrated removal efficiencies of the proposed technology.
   (B)   Access. Access to grease traps shall be available at all times, to
allow for their maintenance and inspection. Access to trap shall be provided by
two manholes (one on each compartment) terminating at finished grade with cast
iron frame and cover.
   (C)   Load-bearing capacity. In areas where additional weight loads may
exist, the grease trap shall be designed to have adequate load-bearing
capacity. (Example: vehicular traffic in driving or parking areas).
   (D)   Inlet and outlet piping. Wastewater discharging to a grease trap shall
enter only through the inlet pipe of the trap. Each grease trap shall have only
one inlet and one outlet pipe.
   (E)   Grease trap sizing. The required size of the grease trap shall be
calculated using the city’s grease
trap sizing method. All grease traps shall have a capacity of not less than
1,000 gallons nor exceed a capacity of 3,000 gallons. If the calculated
capacity exceeds 3,000 gallons, multiple units plumbed in series shall be
installed. The DEU may grant upon written request a reduction in grease trap
sizing due to feasibility of installation. Any approved reduction of grease
trap sizing will also require an increased cleaning frequency directly
proportional to the reduction of grease trap volume.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.06 GREASE TRAP MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Cleaning/pumping. The user at the user’s expense shall maintain all
grease traps to assure proper operation and efficiency and maintain compliance
such as not to cause pass through and violation of the city KYPDES permit or
NPDES effluent water quality standards. Maintenance of grease trap shall
include the complete removal of all contents, including floating materials,
wastewater and bottom sludge and solids. This work shall be performed by a
qualified and licensed hauler. Decanting or discharging of removed waste back
into the trap from which it was removed or any other grease trap, for the
purpose of reducing the volume to be disposed, is prohibited. This service
shall also include a thorough inspection of the trap and its components. Any
needed repairs shall be noted. Repairs shall be made at user’s expense.
   (B)   Cleaning/pumping frequency.
      (1)   The grease trap must be pumped out completely a minimum of:
         (a)   Once every six months;
         (b)   More frequently if the total volume of floating grease and
settled solids in the trap are equal to or greater than 25% of the total trap
volume (25% rule);
         (c)   Anytime the grease trap effluent concentration of total oil and
grease exceeds 250 mg/l; or
         (d)   As determined by the WSS, as needed to prevent carryover of
grease into the sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Upon request of the FSE owner, the DEU or his or her designee may
reduce the cleaning/pumping frequency requirement should it be proven that this
action will not cause significant maintenance problems to the city. Such a
request will not be evaluated until the FSE owner can demonstrate a track
record of compliance and that the current requirement is overly protective for
said FSE.
   (C)   Disposal. All waste removed from each grease trap must be disposed of
at a facility approved to receive such waste in accordance with the provisions
of this program. In no way shall the pumpage be returned to any private or
public portion of the city’s sanitary sewer collection system. All pumpage from
grease traps must be tracked by a manifest, which confirms pumping, hauling and
disposal of waste. The customer must obtain and retain a copy of the original
manifest from the hauler.
   (D)   Maintenance log. A grease trap cleaning/maintenance log indicating
each pumping for the previous 24 months shall be maintained by each food
service establishment (FSE). This log shall include the date, time, amount
pumped, hauler and disposal site and shall be kept in a conspicuous location
for inspection. Said log shall be made available to the WSS or his or her
representative upon request.
   (E)   Submittal of records.
      (1)   Each user shall submit all cleaning and maintenance records to the
WSS. The maintenance records shall include the following information:
         (a)   Facility name, address, contact person and phone number;
         (b)   Company name, address, phone number and contact name of person
responsible for performing the maintenance, cleaning, pumping or repair of
grease trap;
         (c)   Types of maintenance performed;
         (d)   Dates maintenance was performed;
         (e)   Date of next schedule maintenance; and
         (f)   Copies of manifests.
      (2)   The user shall be required to submit maintenance records to the WSS
on a biannual basis (twice per year). Records shall be submitted by March 1 and
September 1 of each year. The records shall be submitted to:
            City of Ashland
            Attn: Wastewater Collection
            P.O. Box 1839
            Ashland, KY 41105-1839
      (3)   The WSS or designees will perform periodic inspections of these
facilities and shall notify the user of any additional required maintenance or
repairs. Upon written notification by the WSS, the user shall be required to
perform the maintenance and records of said maintenance within 14 calendar
days. Upon inspection by the WSS or designees the user may be required to
install, at his or her expense, additional controls to provide a complete
system which prevents discharges of undesirable materials into the wastewater
collection system.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.07 ADDITIVES.
   Any biological additive(s) placed into the grease trap or building discharge
line including, but not limited to, enzymes, commercially available bacteria or
other additives designed to absorb, purge, consume, treat or otherwise
eliminate fats, oils and grease shall require written approval by the WSS prior
to use. The use of such additives shall in no way be considered as a
substitution to the maintenance procedures required herein. If, in the opinion
of the WSS or his or her designee, an approved additive of the WSS fails to aid
in grease control, removal or is detrimental to FOG control the right to use
that additive shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.08 CHEMICAL TREATMENT.
   Chemical treatments such as drain cleaners, acid, degreasers (other than
typical dishwashing detergents) or other chemical solvents designed to dissolve
or remove grease shall not be allowed to enter the grease trap.
(Prior Code, § 53.08) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.09 SAND, SOIL AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   All car washes, truck washes, garages, service stations, car and truck
maintenance facilities, fabricators, utility equipment shops, and other
facilities (as determined by the WSS) that have sources of sand, soil, and oil
shall install effective sand, soil and oil traps, interceptors and/or oil/water
separators.
   (B)   These systems shall be sized to effectively remove sand, soil and oil
at the expected flow rates. These systems shall be, at the user’s expense,
cleaned or pumped on a regular basis to prevent impact upon the wastewater
collection and treatment systems.
   (C)   Users whose systems are deemed to be ineffective by the WSS shall be
asked to change the cleaning frequency or to increase the size of the system.
Owners or operators of washing facilities will be required to prevent the
inflow of detergents and rainwater into the wastewater collection system. Oil/
water separator installations shall be required at facilities that accumulate
petroleum oils and greases and at facilities deemed necessary by the WSS.
   (D)   Upon written request the DEU may grant an exemption from this
requirement to facilities that do not yield significant volumes of water,
significant concentrations of pollutants or are otherwise very limited in their
ability to cause harm to the city’s sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 53.09) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.10 CONTROL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The equipment or facilities installed to control FOG, food waste,
sand, soil, oil and lint must be designed in accordance with the most current
engineering standards, or other applicable guidelines approved by the WSS.
Underground equipment shall be tightly sealed to prevent inflow of rainwater
and shall be easily accessible to allow regular maintenance and inspection.
   (B)   Control equipment shall be maintained by the owner and/or operator of
the facility as to prevent a stoppage of the wastewater collection system, and
the accumulation of FOG, food waste, sand, soil and lint in the collection
lines, pump stations and wastewater treatment plant.
   (C)   If the city is required to clean out the wastewater collection lines,
as a result of a stoppage resulting from poorly maintained control equipment
(or lack thereof) the owner or operator shall be required to refund the labor,
equipment, materials and any overhead costs to the city including any fines
incurred due to any sanitary sewer overflow due directly to the stoppage.
   (D)   The city retains the right to inspect and approve any and all
installations of control equipment.
(Prior Code, § 53.10) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.11 ALTERATION OF CONTROL METHODS.
   The city, through the WSS, reserves the right to request additional control
measures if existing control equipment is shown to be insufficient to protect
the wastewater collection system and wastewater treatment plant from
interference due to the discharge of FOG, sand, soil, lint or any other
undesirable materials.
(Prior Code, § 53.11) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.12 FOG ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   This fats, oils and grease enforcement response plan (FOG ERP), §
53.12 is a statement of policy by the city. It is not a regulation, code or
statute and the city has the authority to amend this policy at any time in
order to more effectively implement the city Fats, Oils and Grease Control
Policy. This plan has been developed for guidance and is not intended to create
legal rights or obligations, or to limit the enforcement discretion of the
Director of Engineering and Utilities, his or her authorized designee(s) or the
city.
      (2)   This FOG enforcement response plan is an effective way to ensure
that the city takes fair, consistent and equitable enforcement actions against
food service establishments (FSE) for violations of the FOG Control Policy and/
or the city sewer user and pretreatment ordinance. It should be noted that,
even with an FOG ERP, judgment and flexibility will be needed at times in
response to unusual instances of noncompliance. Some violations may require a
response that deviates from the ERP depending on the particulars of the
situation.
      (3)   The enforcement philosophy of the city is progressive, in that
problems are addressed at the lowest level and with the least formality
possible consistent with the specific violation. However, no enforcement
procedure is contingent upon the completion of any lesser activity.
      (4)   In general, enforcement actions against food service establishment
(FSE) will be taken in accordance with this enforcement response plan, however,
the enforcement actions listed here are not exclusive and the city reserves the
right to implement other enforcement responses available to it under the
sewer user ordinance, state or federal law, separately or in combination with
these responses.
   (B)   Enforcement actions available under the Fats, Oils and Grease Control
Policy. The city is empowered by the city sewer use and (SUO) to take a wide
variety of enforcement actions. The following is a list of those actions.
      (1)   Notice of deficiency (NOD) and/or notice to correct (NTC). Written
notice that a violation/deficiency has occurred and should be corrected. In
general, NTCs are used for minor isolated violations or as an initial step
leading to an escalated enforcement response. NODs/NTCs are documented and kept
on file.
      (2)   Enforcement meeting. Informal meeting used to gather information
concerning noncompliance, discuss steps to alleviate noncompliance and
determine the commitment level of the food service establishment.
      (3)   Employee training requirement. Used when the FOG coordinator feels
that a violation has been caused by a food service establishment employees(s)
lack of knowledge concerning FOG policy/SUO requirements.
      (4)   Notice of violation (NOV). A NOV is a written notice to the
noncompliant food service establishment that a violation has occurred. A NOV
includes a statement detailing the legal authority under which the city issued
the NOV, a description of the violation(s) and the date(s) the violation(s)
occurred. A NOV may require a response from the food service establishment that
details the causes of the violation(s), and the correction action taken to
correct the violation and prevent similar violations from occurring. In general
a NOV is considered to be a more serious enforcement action than a NOD/NTC.
      (5)   Civil penalties. Administrative penalty issued to a food service
establishment who fails to comply with any provision of the FOG policy and/or
any applicable provision of the SUO. The city sewer use ordinance authorizes
penalties of up to $10,000 per day per violation.
      (6)   Consent orders (CO). A voluntary agreement with a noncompliant food
service establishment that includes specific acts to be taken by the discharger
to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified in the order.
COs may incorporate schedules of compliance (SOC), administrative penalties
and/or termination of service. Such documents shall have the same force and
effect as administrative orders and shall be judicially enforceable.
      (7)   Administrative orders (AO). Administrative orders (AOs) are
enforcement documents that direct food service establishments to undertake and/
or to cease specified activities by specified deadlines. The terms of an AO may
or may not be negotiated with food service establishments. AOs may incorporate
compliance schedules, administrative penalties and/or termination of service.
      (8)   Payment of remediation/clean-up costs and or cost recovery. Notice
to pay to the city costs associated with the clean-up or decontamination of a
site after the discharge of clean-up or decontamination of a site after the
discharge of substances into the sanitary sewer, storm sewer, surface waters
and/or to the environment that cause interference, pass through or sanitary
sewer blockage. This includes clean up and decontamination of all structures/
areas including residential, commercial, surface waters and the environment.
      (9)   Termination of service (TOS). Termination of service (TOS) is the
revocation of a food service establishment’s privilege to discharge wastewater
from food preparation processes into the sanitary sewer system. TOS is used
when the discharge from a FSE presents imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons, or the environment or threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW collection system. TOS is also used as an escalating
enforcement action when a noncompliant food service establishment fails to
respond adequately to previous enforcement actions. TOS may be accomplished by
physical severance of the FSE’s connection to the collection system, issuance
of an AO (Cease and Desist), which compels the FSE to immediately terminate its
discharge, or a court ruling.
   (C)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalties are in addition to assessed city reimbursement
costs for:
         (a)   Legal fees;
         (b)   Equipment repair or replacement;
         (c)   Costs associated with the clean up or decontamination of a site
after the discharge of substances into the sanitary sewer, storm sewer, surface
waters and/or to the environment that cause interference, pass through or
sanitary sewer blockage. This includes clean up and decontamination of all
structures/areas including residential, commercial, surface waters and the
environment;
         (d)   Sampling/monitoring costs; and
         (e)   Any penalties assessed to the city resulting from the subject
violation.
      (2)   The Director of Engineering and Utilities or authorized designee
reserves the right to assess the maximum penalty for any violation.
   (D)   Personnel responsible for enforcement actions. The city’s Director of
Engineering and Utilities or his or her authorized designee is responsible for
all enforcement actions. The City Attorney may be requested to review escalated
penalties prior to issuance, if the Director of Engineering and Utilities, his
or her authorized designee or the Sewer Collection Supervisor deem it
necessary.
   (E)   Enforcement considerations. In determining which enforcement measure
(s) to use and the amount of any civil penalties, the FOG Coordinator may
consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the impact/harm to the natural resources
of the state, the public health, the POTW or public or private property as a
result of the violation (including effect on groundwater, surface water or air
quality);
      (2)   The duration and magnitude of the violation;
      (3)   The cost of repairing the damage to the POTW collection system,
public or private property and/or the natural resources of the state;
      (4)   Whether the violation was committed negligently, grossly
negligently, recklessly negligently, willfully or intentionally;
      (5)   The amount of money saved, if any, by noncompliance, including the
cost of continuing to discharge in noncompliance instead of stopping
operations;
      (6)   Cost incurred by the FSE in correcting the problem and FSE
cooperation and good faith effort to resolve noncompliance;
      (7)   The prior record of the FSE in complying or failing to comply with
the requirements of the FOG control policy, the sewer use and pretreatment
ordinance, or other applicable law or regulation;
      (8)   The cost to the city (including legal fees, sampling/analytical
costs, engineering/consulting fees, and the like) required, in the opinion of
the city, to take necessary investigative/enforcement action, determine the
nature and extent of damage, prevent further damage and repair any damage;
      (9)   The cost to the city for any civil penalties, fines, legal costs
and/or other costs associated with any enforcement action or legal action taken
against the city for wastewater collection system permit violations, NPDES
violations or other violations caused by the FSE violation(s);
      (10)   Violation resulting from vandalism or the action of third-party
entities; and
      (11)   Deficiencies or violations occurring as a result of circumstances
beyond the FSE’s control as determined by the FOG Coordinator.
   (F)   Investigation of noncompliance. The FOG Coordinator will investigate
compliance with the FOG Control policy/sewer use and pretreatment ordinance in
the following ways:
      (1)   On-site inspections of food service establishments, including
scheduled and unscheduled visits;
      (2)   Review of documentation of required cleaning/maintenance of grease
retention units;
      (3)   Review of records/activities required to be documented and
maintained by the user;
      (4)   Review of procedures and implementation of enforceable best
management practices outlined in FOG Control Policy; and
      (5)   Investigation of sanitary sewer overflows and spill and illegal
discharges.
   (G)   Enforcement tier levels.
Enforcement Tier Levels/Actions
Enforcement Tier Levels/Actions
Tier I    Notice of deficiency/notice to correct - no civil penalty assessed
Tier II   Notice of violation -with option of $50 maximum civil penalty
          assessed
Tier III  Notice of violation -with option of $100 maximum civil penalty
          assessed
Tier IV   Notice of violation -with option of $500 maximum civil penalty
          assessed
Tier V    Notice of violation -with option of $1,000 maximum civil penalty
          assessed
Tier VI   Notice of violation - with option of $10,000 maximum civil penalty
          assessed
Tier VII  Consent order/administrative order with stipulated penalties
Tier VIII C/O/A/O with stipulated penalties and termination of (sewer) service
          (TOS)
Please note that reimbursements costs are in addition to any civil penalties
assessed and may be collected retroactively should FSE violations cause the
city to violate any permit, state or federal law.
 
   (H) Types of violations.
Minor violation.
   First occurrence:
 Inspection hindrance (equipment related)        Tier I
 Failure to maintain on site records             Tier II
 Failure to submit quarterly records             Tier II
 Failure to pump grease trap/interceptor         Tier IV
 Violation of employee best management practice  Tier II
   Second occurrence:
 Inspection hindrance (equipment related)        Tier II
 Failure to maintain on site records             Tier III
 Failure to submit quarterly records             Tier III
 Failure to pump grease trap/interceptor         Tier V
 Violation of employee best management practice  Tier III
   Third occurrence:
 Inspection hindrance (equipment related)        Tier III
 Failure to maintain on site records             Tier IV
 Failure to submit quarterly records             Tier IV
 Failure to pump grease trap/interceptor         Tier VI
 Violation of employee best management practice  Tier IV
   Forth occurrence and up:
 Inspection hindrance (equipment related)        Tier V
 Failure to maintain on site records             Tier V
 Failure to submit quarterly records             Tier V
 Failure to pump grease trap/interceptor         Tier VII
 Violation of employee best management practice  Tier VI
Intermediate Violation
   Failure to maintain necessary equipment (T’s, grease trap/interceptor
not watertight, baffles and the like):
 1st offense                                     Tier II
 2nd offense                                     Tier IV
 3rd offense                                     Tier VI
 4th offense and up                              Tier VII
Denial of right of entry for inspection
 1st offense                                     Tier III - Tier V
 2nd offense                                     Tier VI - Tier VIII
Major violation
 1st offense
    Source of sewer blockage                  Tier V
    Source of blockage causing sanitary sewer Tier VI
  overflow
    Falsification of maintenance records      Tier V
 2nd offense of any major violation              Tier V - Tier VIII
 
(Prior Code, § 53.12) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this policy, in part or whole, shall be guilty of
violation punishable under and according to §
53.12 of the city’s fats, oils and grease enforcement response plan and or the
city’s code of ordinances. Each day’s violation of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 53.99) (Ord. 62-2011, passed 6-2-2011)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE
Section
   
54.01   Collection and disposal of garbage compulsory
   
54.02   Division of Solid Waste continued
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Prohibited practices relating to the handling and disposal of garbage
and other waste
   
54.05   Duties of user of garbage collection service
   
54.06   Responsibilities of the city, its agents, or private haulers relating
to the removal of garbage and waste
   
54.07   Vehicles used for garbage or waste collection
   
54.08   Fees for collection of garbage from residences and discontinuance and/
or refusal of services for unpaid bills
   
54.09   New construction; unoccupied
   
54.10   Recycling permit fee for nonresidents
Cross-reference:
   For other regulations re: garbage, solid waste, rubbish and weeds, see
Chapter 93
§ 54.01 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE COMPULSORY.
   The collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, offal, refuse, rubbish
and waste matter is hereby declared to be compulsory and universal within the
corporate limits of the city and shall be regulated by the terms of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.01) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.02 DIVISION OF SOLID WASTE CONTINUED.
   There is hereby continued within the Department of Public Services of the
City of Ashland, the Division of Solid Waste, formerly known as the Division of
Sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 54.02) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL GARBAGE OR WASTE. Includes, but is not limited to,
all industrial garbage or waste capable of incineration or burning that
accumulates in, upon or about the land and buildings appurtenant to the
business and activities of wholesale produce and grocery establishments,
restaurants, hotels, meat packaging and meat wholesale dealers, bakeries,
breweries, fat rendering and hide processing plants, and all other business
establishments in connection with which such commercial or industrial garbage
or waste is produced or accumulated.
   GARBAGE, OFFAL, REFUSE MATTER. Consists of every accumulation of animal,
vegetable and other matter that attends or is incident to the preparation,
consumption, decay or dealing in or storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruits,
vegetables and all other forms of food, and includes wet garbage but does not
include waste matter as herein defined.
   INDUSTRIAL GARBAGE OR WASTE. See COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL GARBAGE OR WASTE.
   OFFAL. See GARBAGE, OFFAL OR OTHER REFUSE MATTER.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, society or
corporation.
   REFUSE MATTER. See GARBAGE, OFFAL OR OTHER REFUSE MATTER.
   RUBBISH and TRASH. Consist of leaves, grass cuttings, wood chips, shavings,
sawdust, woodenware, paper, cardboard, straw, discarded clothing and all other
combustible matter not included in this chapter under the terms GARBAGE, OFFAL
AND OTHER REFUSE MATTER.
   WASTE MATTER. Consists of natural soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel, manure,
stones, bricks, brickbats, plaster, portland cement, crockery, greenware,
glass, glassware, ashes, cinders, shells, metals and all other noncombustible
materials.
   WET GARBAGE. Kitchen and table refuse and offal, swill and every
accumulation of animal, vegetable and other matter that attends or is incident
to the preparation, consumption, decay or dealing in storage of meats, fish,
fowl, birds, fruits, vegetables or other food.
(Prior Code, § 54.03) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.04 PROHIBITED PRACTICES RELATING TO THE HANDLING AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE
AND OTHER WASTE.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To throw or deposit any garbage, rubbish or waste matter, or to cause
the same to be thrown or deposited, upon or in any street, alley, gutter,
vacant lot or yard;
   (B)   To keep, place or deposit garbage or waste on any private grounds or
premises whatsoever, except in cans or receptacle as designated in this chapter
and only in containers marked and provided by the city;
   (C)   To store or keep any garbage, rubbish or waste matter where rodents,
flies or insects can have access thereto or feed thereon;
   (D)   To sell or dispose of wet garbage and all of it must be delivered to
the city, its agents or contractors, for removal and disposal, except, as
authorized otherwise, for commercial and/or industrial operations by the
Director of Public Services;
   (E)   To bury any such garbage or waste matter at any place within the
corporate limits of the city, except as authorized by the Director of Public
Services;
   (F)   To deposit any rubbish or waste matter in or upon any vacant lot,
yard, street, alley, gutter, highway, park or other public place within said
city, except building materials and related supplies in use for construction by
virtue of an authorized current building permit;
   (G)   To burn any garbage or refuse, waste paper, boxes, rubbish, debris,
brush, grass, weeds, cuttings from trees, lawns and gardens, except that such
materials may be burned in a furnace or private incinerator, or pursuant to a
permit issued by and under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department
of the city, nor shall any person collect, remove or dispose of same except as
provided in this chapter;
   (H)   To deposit or cause to be deposited in any manner garbage, rubbish,
leaves, grass and the like or any other waste matter into the sewer system of
the city, except with the written approval and under the direction of the
Director of Public Services of the city;
   (I)   For the owner or operator of any truck or other vehicle carrying
manure, swill, garbage, offal, rubbish or any other noxious, offensive or
dangerous substance or the contents of any privy vault, cesspool or sink to
allow the scattering, spilling or leakage of the contents thereof upon any
street or other public way or upon any yard, driveway or within any premises,
whether public or private, or to allow such vehicle to stand or remain near any
building, place of business, or residence, or to unreasonably delay the time of
loading or unloading or in passing along any street or through any inhabited
place or connection therewith to be kept in an unsanitary and unwholesome
condition or to be stored in any place where needless offense is caused to any
person;
   (J)   To engage in the collection, hauling or transportation of any garbage
or other similar waste or refuse for hire, except by the city or its authorized
agent, except the hauling for hire of commercial garbage or waste or of any
private or commercial rubbish or waste matter, as defined in this chapter, or
of cesspool or privy contents, or of any waste building or construction
materials left over from construction or demolition of any building, which is
the specific duty of the owner, operator, contractor or their agent;
   (K)   To keep or allow to accumulate for more than one week any kind of
putrescible garbage or waste material;
   (L)   For any person who is not a city employee to deposit any garbage,
rubbish, refuse matter or waste matter into any city vehicle or conveyance used
for disposal of any waste except with authorization of the Solid Waste
Supervisor or the Fleet Maintenance/Solid Waste Superintendent or the vehicle
operator; and
   (M)   For any person to store materials in the vicinity of any solid waste
container, refuse matter or waste matter with the expectation that the city
will not remove such materials as if it were solid waste. The city will not
reimburse for removal of any such materials.
(Prior Code, § 54.04) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.05 DUTIES OF USER OF GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   Containers.
      (1)   Individual containers.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee or occupant of any
private dwelling, boarding house or other building where meals are prepared or
provided; of the owner, or owner’s agent, of every furnished flat or apartment
house; and of every other person generating or having garbage and using
individual containers, to utilize containers marked and provided by the city.
Receptacles lost or damaged due to resident neglect will be replaced at a
charge of $75 to the resident. Stolen receptacles will be replaced at no charge
to the resident with a police report.
         (b)   Additional containers marked and provided by the city may be
obtained by contacting the Solid Waste Supervisor pursuant to the fees
contained in §
54.08(A).
      (2)   Dumpsters. Collection, removal and disposal of garbage, rubbish and
related waste materials in dumpsters by the city shall not be permitted unless
approved by the Solid Waste Supervisor or the Fleet Maintenance/Solid Waste
Superintendent.
   (B)   Preparation. Garbage shall be drained and put in paper or plastic bag
before being placed in the container in order that same shall neither emit nor
give off offensive odors in warm weather nor freeze and adhere to the can in
cold weather.
   (C)   Placement of containers.
      (1)   Garbage containers and/or trash shall be placed at the edge of the
street, alley or at the curb in front of his or her premises to be picked up by
the collector. Any person who, because of physical disability, age or
infirmity, is unable to place said garbage containers and/or trash at the edge
of the street, alley or at the curb in front of his or her premises may make
special arrangements directly with the Solid Waste Supervisor for the movement
of such containers. Fenced yards must provide a gate of sufficient size to
accommodate the city receptacle.
      (2)   No container or receptacle for receiving garbage or waste shall be
placed on or in any street, alley, sidewalk, nor in or on any public way or
place, nor in the front yard of a residence except after 5:00 p.m. on the day
preceding the collection day and shall be removed before 10:00 p.m. on
collection day. After collection day, it shall be the responsibility of the
citizen to return all containers to their normal location near the dwelling. No
containers are to be left in the front yard of a residence unless specifically
approved by the Director of Public Services.
   (D)   Removal of items not provided in this chapter. It shall be the
responsibility of the householder to remove and have hauled away all discarded
items not provided for removal by this chapter, including, but not limited to,
building materials, items over 50 pounds, and appliances.
(Prior Code, § 54.05) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.06 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY, ITS AGENTS, OR PRIVATE HAULERS RELATING
TO THE REMOVAL OF GARBAGE AND WASTE.
   (A)   Collections.
      (1)   Single-family residential collection; mandatory.
         (a)   Participation in the city collection program is mandatory for
all single-family households. The city, or its designated agent, shall collect
from single-family households at least once each week and at such other and
additional times as designated by the Director of Public Services or his or her
designee. No person, firm or corporation, other than the city or its agents,
shall engage in the collection, transportation and disposal of garbage and
other waste materials from single-family households, except as contracted by
the city.
         (b)   Garbage collection may not be stopped and started by the
customer except in conjunction with a non-emergency or non-repair related
utility shutoff and turn on.
      (2)   Collections from commercial, educational, non-profit or industrial
establishments. Garbage, offal, refuse, rubbish, trash or any and all other
commercial, educational, non-profit and industrial garbage or waste, as herein
defined, shall be collected by a private hauler who must be duly licensed by
the city and must abide by the applicable provisions of this chapter, except as
specifically provided otherwise in this chapter.
      (3)   Commercial pickup by city. When the city determines that providing
commercial pickup is in the interest of the city such service may be provided
as determined by the Director of Public Services. When the city is providing
residential pickup at a location which is combined with a commercial operation,
that commercial operation shall receive and be charged for pickup unless
otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Services.
   (B)   Rubbish and trash removal.
      (1)   The city, or its agent, shall provide one quarterly reasonable
pickup service per household for the removal of trash and rubbish, as defined
in this chapter.
      (2)   Said pickup is subject to fees set forth in §
54.08(E) and at the discretion of the Director of Public Services or his or her
designee.
         (a)   Conditions for removal.
            1.   Such items to be collected must be placed in containers sturdy
enough to be handled by the collector, the total loaded weight of each
container not to exceed 50 pounds per carton. Such items shall be placed at the
curb or alley line no earlier than the day preceding collection day.
            2.   Any and all furniture items disposed of no more than once
quarterly shall be placed at the curb or alley line no earlier than the day
preceding collection day and shall be completely bagged/wrapped in plastic.
            3.   The city reserves the right to handle only those items that
conform to this chapter. Any material that does not conform to these
regulations shall become the responsibility of the resident to properly dispose
of as authorized herein.
         (b)   Tree limbs. Tree limbs not exceeding three feet in length and
one-inch in diameter and must be tied in bundles which can be readily handled
and loaded by one person. Additional charges, as set forth in §
54.08, will be made for collection and disposal of loose or unbagged trash,
including tree limbs not exceeding five feet in length.
         (c)   Additional charges. Additional charges, as set forth in this
chapter shall be made for collection and disposal of more than five leaf bags
or any bags exceeding 30 pounds in weight.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.07 VEHICLES USED FOR GARBAGE OR WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   General rules.
      (1)   Containment. All trucks or other conveyances used and employed in
the collection and transportation of garbage, offal and any and all other
refuse and waste matter, whether from households, business or industrial
establishments, shall be designed for such purpose, with automatic dump, so as
to effectively prevent the scattering, spilling or leakage of the contents and
odors. Such trucks or conveyances shall not be filled or loaded above the level
of the upper edge or top of same and shall be kept securely covered while in
transit, and shall be daily washed, cleaned and deodorized by the owner, its or
his or her agents and employees and shall at all times be subject to inspection
and approval of the Director of Public Services or his or her designee.
      (2)   Markings. Each truck or conveyance shall bear a number plainly and
visibly painted upon both sides thereof. Each truck or conveyance engaged in
solid waste disposal shall be plainly marked in accordance with KRS Chapter
224.
   (B)   Notification of disposal sites. All owners of vehicles or conveyances
used for disposal of any waste listed above within the city limits of the city
shall provide in advance of such use a notarized statement to the Director of
Public Services of the final destination of the loads of such vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 54.07) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.08 FEES FOR COLLECTION OF GARBAGE FROM RESIDENCES AND DISCONTINUANCE AND/
OR REFUSAL OF SERVICES FOR UNPAID BILLS.
   (A)   Residential fees.
      (1)   Currently there is hereby levied a sanitation collection service
charge of $26.28 per month upon each householder within the city serviced by
sanitation service provided by the city or its authorized agent, upon the terms
stipulated in this chapter for weekly garbage removal plus a maximum of five
bags of lawn waste and quarterly trash removal. Exceptions to such monthly
service charge are set forth in §
55.02 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Currently each additional container marked and provided by the city
results in an additional fee of $25.39 per month.
   (B)   Dumpster fees. Twenty-six dollars and twenty-eight cents per
residential unit per month with a minimum of $105.12 per month currently.
   (C)   Chipper fees. Special arrangements for use of a chipper for limbs over
three feet in length may be arranged for at a fee based on the city’s rental
rate and manpower costs as determined by the Director of Public Services.
   (D)   Commercial fees. Commercial pickup shall pay a rate based on weight
and volume as determined by the Director of Public Services, however, the
minimum fee shall be $26.28. The size, type and location of the dumpster shall
require approval by the Solid Waste Supervisor or the Fleet Maintenance/Solid
Waste Superintendent before placement.
   (E)   Special fees. Such monthly service charge shall not include the
removal of loose or un-bagged trash or tree limbs exceeding the measurements
set forth in §
54.06(B). A fee of $74.45 is hereby levied to collect any such loose or un-
bagged trash or unbundled tree limbs not to exceed five feet in length.
Additional charges based on the above rate shall be charged for larger loads,
aid fees to be determined by the Director of Public Services or his or her
designee.
(Prior Code, § 54.08) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.09 NEW CONSTRUCTION; UNOCCUPIED.
   Newly constructed households will not be charged the monthly sanitation
collection service fee until the household is initially occupied, or collection
service is requested, regardless of water utility status. This exception
applies only during and continues after the original construction prior to
occupancy. Once collection has started, all conditions apply.
(Prior Code, § 54.09) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 54.10 RECYCLING PERMIT FEE FOR NONRESIDENTS.
   (A)   The city has constructed a recycling center on 13th Street at the
Riverfront for use by all city residents currently charged a garbage fee on
their utility bill.
   (B)   The city shall offer for sale to nonresidents of the city an annual
numbered recycling permit for a fee of $100.
      (1)   Recycling permits shall be available at the Ashland City Building
located at 1700 Greenup Avenue, Ashland, during regular business hours.
      (2)   Beginning January 1, 2019, all permits shall be issued for one year
must be renewed annually. Permits will be available throughout the year at a
pro-rated cost.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued to any commercial business operation.
      (4)   In the event that an issued recycling permit shall be lost, the
nonresident may obtain a duplicate permit upon the payment of $5.
   (C)   All residents of the city shall gain entrance to the recycling center
upon showing a city utility bill that includes a “garbage” charge (along with a
photo ID) or a Kentucky driver’s license with an Ashland, Kentucky’ address.
   (D)   All nonresidents shall gain entrance to the recycling center upon
showing the permit issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.10) (Ord. 176-2018, passed 12-14-2018)
CHAPTER 55: GENERAL UTILITY REGULATIONS; BILLING
Section
   
55.01   Security deposit
   
55.02   Manner of billing for service
   
55.03   Penalties and interest; utility shutoff
   
55.04   Application of monies collected
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   A security deposit fee of $125 shall be required of all new
customers.
      (2)   From and after the effective date of this chapter the security
deposit charge for family residential units which are occupied by the
homeowner, wherein the occupant is on a fixed income due to being blind,
disabled or 62 years of age or older, provided that said total family income
does not exceed 40% of HUD median income for Boyd County Kentucky for that
fiscal year, and provided that such financial incapacity is proven and
established to the satisfaction of the City Manager, or his or her designee, by
sworn affidavit or other properly authenticated records shall be $62.50.
   (B)   The deposit will be refunded after 12 months service if the customer
has not been delinquent on any payments due to the fault of the customer.
   (C)   Only one deposit is required for water, sewer and sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 55.01) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 55.02 MANNER OF BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Included on utility bill. The applicable fee for utility or sanitation
service shall be billed as a separate item on the regular billing for water/
sewer/sanitation service by the city and said charge shall be payable at the
collections office in the same manner and within the same penalty-free period
as required for payment of charges for water and sewer service.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2024 and each January thereafter for water/
sewer/garbage service within the corporate limits of the city. The annual
percentage increase of the water, sewer and garbage line item for the U.S.
Department of Labor Consumer Price Index starting with the percentage for 2022
shall be applied one year later on January 1, 2024 at a maximum of 5% with the
exception of charges for garbage this year only. The 2023 annual percentage
rate shall be applied on January 1, 2025 in the like manner, and annually
thereafter similar adjustments shall be applied to:
         (a)   Administrative and billing charges;
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 2024 and each January thereafter for water
service outside the corporate limits of the city. The annual percentage
increase of the water, sewer and garbage line item for the U.S. Department of
Labor Consumer Price Index starting with the percentage for 2022 shall be
applied one year later on January 1, 2024 at a maximum of 5%. The 2023 annual
percentage rate shall be applied on January 1, 2025 in the like manner, and
annually thereafter similar adjustments shall be applied to:
         (a)   Administrative and billing charges;
         (b)   Each user charge per 2,000 gallons; and
         (c)   Minimum bills.
      (3)   Effective January 1, 2029 and each January thereafter for sewer
service within and outside the corporate limits of the city. The annual
percentage increase of the water, sewer and garbage line item for the U.S.
Department of Labor Consumer Price Index starting with the percentage for 2027
shall be applied one year later on January 1, 2029 at a maximum of 5%. The 2028
annual percentage rate shall be applied on January 1, 2030 in the like manner,
and annually thereafter similar adjustments shall be applied to:
         (a)   Administrative and billing charges;
         (b)   Each user charge per 1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   Minimum bills.
   (B)   Fee exception for elderly or handicapped persons.
      (1)   Effective July 1, 2011 the minimum monthly water charge and monthly
sanitation service fee stated in this chapter shall not apply to family
residential units located in the city which are occupied by the homeowner,
provided that the occupant is on a fixed income due to being blind, disabled or
62 years of age or older, provided that said total family income does not
exceed 40% of HUD median income for Boyd County, Kentucky for that fiscal year,
provided that such financial incapacity is proven and established to the
satisfaction of the City Manager, or his or her designee by sworn affidavit or
other properly authenticated records.
         (a)   If such provisions apply, the minimum monthly water usage
charges effective January 1, 2023 shall be $3.77 per month.
         (b)   Also, if such provisions apply, the administrative and billing
charge, effective January 1, 2023 shall be $5.79 per month.
         (c)   The monthly sanitation fee shall be $17.75.
      (2)   Any fee reduction granted must be renewed annually by the homeowner
by January 1. Failure to renew exemption applications January 1 of each year
will result in termination of the exemption.
      (3)   Renewal of expired exemptions, or new exemptions, may be granted at
any time during the year, however, no retroactive exemptions shall be granted.
   (C)   Customer accountable. The utilities customer in whose name the water
meter account is carried shall be held responsible for payment of the full
amount of the utility and sanitation service charges billed, which total amount
shall be based on the number of households served.
   (D)   Payments credited pro-rata. All utility payments are credited prorate
to water, sewer and sanitation.
   (E)   Separate bills. In instances where it is not feasible or possible to
utilize such utility bills for notifying sanitation service customers of
service charges payable, separate bills may be issued and shall be payable
within ten days after the date of rendering.
   (F)   Proper authority. The city may demand proof of proper authorization to
renters by the property owner regarding provision of all services, fees and
charges.
(Prior Code, § 55.02) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 55.03 PENALTIES AND INTEREST; UTILITY SHUTOFF.
   (A)   Penalties and interest. All charges for utility or sanitation service
remaining unpaid after they become due shall be charged a penalty of 10% and
interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (18% per annum). The due date shall be
16 calendar days from the date that the utility bills are delivered to the
United States Postal Service. If the due date as computed in the previous
sentence falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, then the due date will
be the next regular working day. No such penalty and interest charges shall be
less than $5 except that this minimum charge shall apply only after computing
the entire bill including water, sewer and sanitation charges, as appropriate,
and shall not be charged on any bill already including a late utility charge.
   (B)   Utility shutoff. If all charges for all services are not paid by the
due date of the delinquent notice, water service shall be discontinued. In
addition to the 10% penalty, all service charges shall be paid before water is
reconnected. If a check used for payment following a shutoff notice is returned
for any reason, that service shall be shut off immediately without further
notice.
   (C)   Returned payment fee. Any account on which payment is made partially
or wholly by a check, returned bank draft or disputed credit card payment which
is returned for any reason shall be charged a fee of $35. In addition, after
the second such occurrence within a 12-month period, the city may require
payment by cash, cashier’s check or money order for a 12-month period.
Thereafter, any single repetition shall cause the same requirements to be
placed in effect indefinitely.
   (D)   Collection fee. Any inactive account on which payment is overdue is
subject to processing through collection. Any such account balance shall have
an additional fee of 50% added to the amount due.
   (E)   Payment plans. The City Manager or his or her designee is authorized
to establish and regulate a payment plan in special circumstances when needed
and is further authorized to cease such plan for any delinquency or non-
payment. Generally, such payment shall be in writing.
   (F)   Delinquency. On or after the effective date of this section, if any
charges for utility services provided by the city shall remain unpaid beyond
the due date of the delinquent notice, the city shall refuse new service to the
delinquent applicant until all charges are paid. The delinquency shall be
deemed to exist whether the outstanding delinquency is in the name of the
applicant or spouse.
   (G)   Penalty for violation.
      (1)   The city may levy fines or penalties against a user for willful or
malicious acts including, but not limited to: turning on water at meter without
city approval; installing a jumper or similar device specifically for the
purpose of theft of water; turning on of fire hydrants; damage to city
facilities. A fine or penalty may be placed on the user’s water bill to cover
the actual cost of the loss (i.e., cost of repair, estimated cost of stolen
water, cost of labor to remove jumpers and the like) plus an additional fine as
follows:
         (a)   If water is turned on at the meter without city permission: $100
each occurrence;
         (b)   If a water meter jumper is installed: $100 each occurrence;
         (c)   Illegal use of fire hydrant or unmetered water source: $250 each
occurrence; and
         (d)   Intentional damage to city facilities: $50 to $200 per
occurrence (based on severity of offense).
      (2)   The City Manager or his or her designee may determine the
additional fine for other occurrences not listed above which will include a
trip fee for each trip to a residence due to the above charges. An additional
security deposit may be added to the customer’s account to ensure that the
account has adequate security in case of future non-payment or bad debt.
(Prior Code, § 55.03) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 55.04 APPLICATION OF MONIES COLLECTED.
   All monies derived from the administration and enforcement of this chapter
shall be used by the city in the manner established by the Board of City
Commissioners, for providing equipment, personnel and services to carry its
provisions into effect including salaries, pension funds, benefits, equipment
and landfill costs.
(Prior Code, § 55.04) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than the maximum
fine enumerated in KRS 534.040 for a misdemeanor offense.
(Prior Code, § 55.99) (Ord. 215, 2024, passed 12-13-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority of Police Division; Chief to make regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for emergency purposes by a
fire department; any vehicle used for emergency purposes by the state police, a
public police department, Corrections Cabinet or sheriff’s office; any vehicle
used for emergency purposes by a rescue squad; any publicly owned vehicle used
for emergency purposes by a civil defense agency; ambulances; any vehicle
commandeered by a police officer; or any motor vehicle used by a paid or
volunteer firefighter or paid or volunteer ambulance personnel while responding
to an emergency or to a location where an emergency vehicle is on emergency
call.
(KRS 189.910)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection within the connections of
the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured
from the curbs or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable
roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(KRS 189.010(2))
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased
person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a pennant
attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another, but do not necessarily continue, at
approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different highways joining at any other angle may come into conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event the
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection. The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an intersection.
(KRS 189.010)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. All signals, not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction
for the purpose of directing, warning or regulating traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs, markings and devices other than signals,
not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of guiding, directing,
warning or regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, on a roadway,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading, or in obedience of traffic regulations or traffic signs
or signals.
   PEDESTRIANS. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
(KRS 189.010)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(KRS 189.010)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times set apart as
a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard,
bridge, viaduct or trestle, and the approaches to them, including off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for-hire parking facilities listed KRS 189.700.
(KRS 189.010)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device using colored lights, or words, or any
combination thereof, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated,
by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed pursuant to
relevant provisions of KRS 189.337.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or property
over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles passing
over or upon the highways.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE includes all vehicles, as defined above except, road
rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which power shovels are
mounted; construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails;
vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while being
operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more than
five miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; and vehicles propelled
by muscular power.
(KRS 189.010(19))
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE DIVISION; CHIEF TO MAKE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the
provisions of this title. Officers of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic either in person or by means of visible or
audible signal in conformance with the provisions of this title. In the event
of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police or Fire Department may direct traffic, as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title. It shall further be the
duty of the Police Department and the officers of the Police Department are
hereby authorized and directed to tow in all vehicles parked in violation of
this title or parked in places marked “No Parking” as designated by the City
Manager or Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to make and enforce
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this title and to
make and enforce temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 12-1939, passed 2-7-1939)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Applicability to public employees
   
71.02   Exemption for authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.03   Persons propelling pushcarts, riding bicycles, or riding or driving
animals
   
71.04   Use of roller skates, coasters, skateboards and other wheeled vehicles
   
71.05   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
71.06   Bicycle safety
   
71.07   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.08   Riding on part of vehicle not designed for passengers
   
71.09   Speed limits
   
71.10   Golf carts, utility vehicles and all- terrain vehicles
Operation of Vehicle
   
71.25   U-turns
   
71.26   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.27   Driving over new pavement
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.40   Character, type of devices to be used
   
71.41   Interference with devices
   
71.42   Stop signs within city limits
   
71.43   Failure to obey device
Weight Limits
   
71.55   Trucks hauling 30-ton coils
   
71.56   Certain trucks restricted to state or federal highways
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Traffic regulations, see KRS Chapter 189
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the operator of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the U.S. government, any state, county or
city, and it shall be unlawful for any such operator to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
§ 71.02 EXEMPTION FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to any exemption as set forth in KRS 189.940.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.03 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, RIDING BICYCLES, OR RIDING OR DRIVING
ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding any bicycle or animal on a
roadway, and every person driving any animal, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the operator of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this title with reference to the equipment of vehicles and
except those provisions which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles or pushcarts prohibited on sidewalks, see §
97.021
§ 71.04 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER WHEELED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person on roller skates or riding in or
by means of any coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device to go on any roadway
except while crossing the street on a crosswalk.
   (B)   No person shall ride a skateboard or other platform with wheels
attached or propel themselves with roller skates upon any sidewalk or street
within the following downtown district: such Central Business District shall be
encompassed by the boundary streets of Front Street on the north, both sides of
13th Street on the west, both sides of Central Avenue on the south and 20th
Street on the east.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 26-1990, passed 4-3-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 97
§ 71.05 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person traveling on any bicycle, motorcycle,
coaster sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or
herself or his or her vehicle to any other moving vehicle or street car on any
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 BICYCLE SAFETY.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bicycle on the street to carry
any other person on the handlebars, frame or tank of any such vehicle or for
any person to so ride on any such vehicle. Enforcement of this section will be
pursuant to KRS 189.287.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any vehicle
while the vehicle is moving.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 RIDING ON PART OF VEHICLE NOT DESIGNED FOR PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on any vehicle on any portion
thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle
is in motion. This provision shall not apply to any employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit within the city shall be set at 25 mph subject to the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Speed limits on state maintained highways and public parking lots
will be determined by the Commissioner of Highways pursuant to KRS 189.390; and
      (2)   The speed limits on certain other streets shall be as specified in
Chapter 74, Schedule VIII.
   (B)   Should the Board of Commissioners determine that the speed limit on
any city maintained street is greater or less than is reasonable or safe for
the orderly movement of traffic, based on engineering and/or traffic
investigations, an ordinance may be approved by an affirmative vote of the
Board of Commissioners to change the limits, provided that the change does not
cause the limit to be greater than 55 mph.
   (C)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs, street markings and other necessary equipment where
same are required to carry the provisions of this section into effect. The
Director of Public Services and the Chief of Police will coordinate
installation of appropriate signs and markings by priority based on highway
safety concerns.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to carry the
provisions of this section into effect and to take appropriate steps to enforce
same after appropriate signs and markings have been installed.
(Prior Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 49-2006, passed 4-20-2006)
§ 71.10 GOLF CARTS, UTILITY VEHICLES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   The operation of golf carts, utility vehicles and all-terrain
vehicles, as those terms are defined in state law, is prohibited on all public
roadways, streets or highways within the city, except if in compliance with an
ordinance of the city enacted under the authority of KRS 189.286.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, nothing herein
shall prohibit the operation of a utility vehicle, golf cart or public safety
vehicle, as defined in state law, by an employee of the Police Department or
the city acting in an official capacity, or the use of such vehicles by
festival organizers in conjunction with festivals conducted within the city
authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than $100 and not more than $250 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 71.10) (Ord. 121, 2020, passed 8-27-2020; Ord. 48, 2022, passed
4-15-2022)
OPERATION OF VEHICLE
§ 71.25 U-TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn the vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction; however, such a turn may be made at
the dead end of any street.
(Prior Code, § 71.21) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Turning around on curve or grade, see KRS 189.400
§ 71.26 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to drive on any sidewalk
except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 71.22) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 97
§ 71.27 DRIVING OVER NEW PAVEMENT.
   No person shall operate any vehicle over or across any newly made pavement
at which there is a barrier, person or sign giving warning to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 71.23) Penalty, see §
71.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.40 CHARACTER, TYPE OF DEVICES TO BE USED.
   (A)   There is hereby designated the character and type of traffic signals,
signs and markers to be used in the city as follows.
   (B)   Traffic-control signals shall be of the suspended aerial type similar
to those now in use as manufactured by the Crouse Hinds and Tokheim Companies
or their equal.
   (C)   The official color of all informative traffic markers shall be yellow
with black embossed letters, similar to those adopted by the National Highway
and Safety Conference.
   (D)   Safety zone markers and anchored street markers shall be constructed
of cast iron or steel and be of the reflector type similar to those
manufactured by K.E. Erickson Company, Inc., or their equal.
   (E)   Danger and warning signals shall be of the reflector type in
conformity with the standards of United States Bureau of Public Roads.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices to meet state specifications, see KRS 189.337
§ 71.41 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, obstruct or
interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 71.46) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 STOP SIGNS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   The ordinance providing for the installation of stop signs within the city,
as adopted by Ord. 169-1995, and as amended from time to time is set forth
fully as
Chapter 74, Schedule IX.
(Prior Code, § 71.47) (Ord. 169-1995, passed 12-21-1995) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 FAILURE TO OBEY DEVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by the authority of
the Board of City Commissioners or in accordance with KRS Chapter 189 except
upon the direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established upon
the direction of the Board of City Commissioners shall conform to the rules and
regulations which have been established by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) (Ord. 169-1995, passed 12-21-1995) Penalty, see §
71.99
WEIGHT LIMITS
§ 71.55 TRUCKS HAULING 30-TON COILS.
   The Board of City Commissioners of the city hereby grants its authority
pursuant to KRS 189.280(3) that Armco, Inc., its agents and contracting
truckers, be granted authority to haul 30-ton coils across city streets and
state highways and bridges located within the corporate limits of the city
including the Simeon Willis Bridge. It is estimated that 100 trucks per year
carrying such load would be involved. In conjunction with this, the city has
requested and is receiving cooperation from the Cabinet of Transportation,
Department of Highways to assist in Armco, Inc.’s hauling of such coils.
(Prior Code, § 71.65) (Ord. 96-1987, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 71.56 CERTAIN TRUCKS RESTRICTED TO STATE OR FEDERAL HIGHWAYS.
   All trucks with three axles or more, either straight-frame or tractor-
trailer combination, are restricted to state or federal designated highways
except aforementioned trucks may not use the section of state highway commonly
referred to as Winchester Avenue between 13th Street and 33rd Street. Trucks
with three axles or more, either straight-frame or tractor-trailer combination
may travel off state or federal highways or on Winchester Avenue between 13th
Street and 33rd Street for pickup and/or delivery between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 7:30 a.m. or while in transit to a destination off-highway via the
most direct route.
(Prior Code, § 71.66) (Ord. 1-1990, passed 1-16-1990; Ord. 163, 1994, passed
12-1-1994; Ord. 114, 2024, passed 6-28-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of §
71.43 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned not more than 12 months or both.
(Prior Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 169-1995, passed 12-21-1995)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Correct method of parking
   
72.002   Angle parking
   
72.003   Blocking traffic
   
72.004   Parking for purpose of selling vehicle
   
72.005   Display of lights on parked trucks
   
72.006   Streets scheduled for cleaning
   
72.007   Abandoned vehicles
   
72.008   Parking in alleys
   
72.009   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.010   Parking of semitrailers
   
72.011   Parking in public rights-of-way
   
72.012   Parking of certain vehicles prohibited
   
72.013   Resident only parking by permit
   
72.014   Downtown residential parking zone
Loading and Unloading Zones
   
72.025   Loading or unloading in passenger zones
Bus Stops and Taxi Stands
   
72.040   Designation of stands and terminals
   
72.041   Buses and taxis to use designated stops and stands; exception
   
72.042   Use by other vehicles
Parking Meters
   
72.055   Parking meter covers permitted for service vehicles
Parking Garage
   
72.070   Fees for parking spaces in parking garage at 17th Street and Carter
Avenue
Disabled Parking
   
72.085   Designation of reserved parking spaces
   
72.086   Unlawful to park in reserved parking spaces
   
72.087   Standardized disabled parking sign use
Snow Emergencies
   
72.100   Declaration of snow emergency
   
72.101   Parking on snow emergency route
   
72.102   Parking on non-snow emergency routes
   
72.103   Travel on snow emergency routes
   
72.104   Emergency removal of parked or disabled vehicles; expenses to be borne
by owner
   
72.105   Other parking regulations to apply
Street Sweeping
   
72.120   Street sweeping schedule established
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.135   City Manager may grant exemptions and waive fees
   
72.136   Towing unlawfully parked vehicles; payment of charges
   
72.137   Prima facie evidence that violation committed with authority of owner
 
   
72.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Exemption for authorized emergency vehicles, see §
71.02
   Loading/unloading zones, see
Ch. 75, Sch. IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 CORRECT METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs
or signals, the operator of a vehicle shall not stop, stand or park the vehicle
in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the
direction of traffic and with the curb side wheels of the vehicle within six
inches of the edge of the roadway, except as provided in §
72.002.
(Prior Code, § 72.001) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks or
signs. The Chief of Police shall determine on what streets angle parking shall
be permitted and shall mark or sign the streets or cause them to be marked or
signed.
(Prior Code, § 72.002)
§ 72.003 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to block traffic on any street, alley or
sidewalk so as to interfere with the regular use of the street, alley or
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 72.003) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF SELLING VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park on a street any vehicle
displayed for sale.
(Prior Code, § 72.004) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 DISPLAY OF LIGHTS ON PARKED TRUCKS.
   All motor trucks of more than three quarter ton capacity parked on any
street within the city between sundown and sunrise must at all times display
proper, standard, and approved parking lights, as provided and established by
KRS 189.070.
(Prior Code, § 72.005) (Ord. 15-1954, passed 5-25-1954) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 STREETS SCHEDULED FOR CLEANING.
   In order to expedite and facilitate the cleaning of streets by the city,
which streets have not been designated for the regular street cleaning
schedules, it shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to park or
leave standing any motor vehicle on the portions of the streets designated by
the placing of temporary signs prior to the time the street is to be cleaned
notifying the public in sufficient time that the street or portion of street is
to be cleaned at a particular time and date. This provision shall be enforced
pursuant to KRS 189.450.
(Prior Code, § 72.006) (Ord. 59-1962, passed 9-10-1962) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park, place and
leave standing on the public streets and ways of the city, any motor vehicle,
motor driven appliance, boat or other equipment, for a period of more than
seven consecutive days. This section shall be enforced pursuant the provisions
of KRS 189.751.
(Prior Code, § 72.007) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.008 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   Parking of vehicles in any alley, shall be prohibited except for a
reasonable time to permit loading and unloading, and unless the Board of
Commissioners permits, by separate ordinance, parking along certain specified
portions of the alley as to promote public safety and convenience.
(Prior Code, § 72.008) (Ord. 15-1954, passed 5-25-1954; Ord. 114-1984, passed
11-7-1984) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.009 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Within five feet of either side of the front of or in front of a
public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   At any place where official signs or curb markings prohibit
stopping or parking;
      (5)   Along the curb or shoulder of a public street within 30 feet on the
approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control signal located at
the side of a roadway;
      (6)   Along the curb or shoulder of a public street within ten feet in
either direction of a fire hydrant; and
      (7)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for disabled persons.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing on such a highway
in violation of this section, he or she may move the vehicle, or order the
removal of the vehicle, or require the operator or other person in charge of
the vehicle to move it, to a position off the paved or improved or main
traveled part of the public street.
   (C)   In the event that a vehicle suffers mechanical failure which
temporarily disables the vehicle, the operator shall have a reasonable period
of time to have the failure corrected or have the vehicle moved at his or her
own expense. If the operator fails to take such action, a police officer may,
at his or her discretion, take action under division (B) of this section.
   (D)   The Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized and directed to
carry the provisions of this section into effect and to take appropriate steps
to enforce same.
   (E)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install any necessary signs, curb markings, or other appropriate identification
of such areas indicated in division (A) of this section on request of the
Director of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 72.009) (Ord. 17-1978, passed 3-16-1978) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing, or repairing vehicle on highway, see KRS 189.450
§ 72.010 PARKING OF SEMITRAILERS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place, park or leave standing
any semitrailer on any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them within the city. Furthermore, and
in addition, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing any vehicle and any towed unit of declared gross weight
of 26,000 pounds or more upon any public road, street, avenue, alley or
boulevard, bridge, viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them within any of
the residential districts delineated and defined within the city zoning
ordinance and zoning map as adopted or modified from time to time.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section to place, park, or leave
standing a semitrailer or any vehicle and any towed unit of declared gross
weight of 26,000 pounds or more upon any public road, street, avenue, alley,
boulevard or other location designed for the purpose of loading or unloading
the vehicles.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to take
appropriate steps to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs to carry the provisions of this section into effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.010) (Ord. 48-1982, passed 6-3-1982; Ord. 73-1986, passed 8-
5-1986) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.011 PARKING IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF- WAY.
   (A)   The limited use of the city right-of-way will be permitted with prior
recommendation of the City Manager or his or her designee with approval by the
Board of City Commissioners in the event that the party requesting such use
does so with the understanding that the general public shall have equal access
to the use and the property owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the city
from any claim or cause of action arising from such use. Additionally, this
permissive use shall not be permanent in nature or duration and may be
terminated at the will of the city. The use shall not in any event be permitted
to the detriment of the general public.
   (B)   The limited permissive use shall not entail any consideration by the
Planning Department of such proposed parking spaces in regard to the required
number of spaces required for the construction of any particular building
within a specific zone under the city’s zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The adoption of this section acknowledges that there are at the
present time various property owners utilizing the city’s right-of-way for just
such use. So long as those property owners comply with the provisions of this
section the use will be permitted to continue. Those users, however, shall be
held to the same provisions of this section, that is: temporary use, that the
use not be detrimental to the general public, that the user shall indemnify and
hold harmless the city from any claim or cause of action arising from such use,
and their use shall be terminable at will by the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.011) (Ord. 64-1985, passed 6-4-1985) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.012 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place, park or leave standing
any motor home, bus, boat trailer or any other trailer designed for hauling
materials of any description and including, but not limited to, garden and lawn
trailers and camper trailers, upon any public road, street, avenue, alley or
boulevard, bridge, viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them, or any other
public right-of-way within the city.
   (B)   For the purposes or this section, any vehicles described in division
(A), above shall be deemed to be parked or left standing when it remains
unmoved from the general area for a period of time exceeding six hours.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to take
appropriate steps to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.012) (Ord. 119-1988, passed 11-1-1988) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.013 RESIDENT ONLY PARKING BY PERMIT.
   (A)   A resident only parking zone is hereby created and shall include those
areas set forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule X.
   (B)   Once signs are erected or placed giving notice that a resident only
parking permit area has been established pursuant to ordinance of the Board of
Commissioners, no person shall park a vehicle in any such space so designated
by white line curb and/or street markings during the time period specified on
such signs, unless the vehicle displays a parking permit authorized by this
section.
   (C)   Eligible residents must fill out the appropriate city application form
in order to receive a white line resident parking permit.
   (D)   No persons shall represent in any fashion that a vehicle is entitled
to a resident parking permit authorized by ordinance of the Board of
Commissioners when not so entitled. The display of a resident parking permit on
a vehicle not entitled to such a resident parking permit shall constitute such
a representation.
   (E)   No person shall duplicate or attempt to duplicate, by any means, a
resident parking permit authorized by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
The display of such duplicate resident parking permit on a vehicle shall
constitute such a duplication.
   (F)   The city will issue resident parking permits only for vehicles with a
Kentucky registration registered to a residential address in the residential
area as defined in
Chapter 75, Schedule X. Any required city motor vehicle license must also be
properly displayed for a vehicle to be properly registered under this section.
   (G)   Resident parking permits issued for the areas defined in division (F)
above shall be valid only for that residential area.
   (H)   To be properly displayed, a valid resident parking permit shall be
affixed to the far left one-quarter of the rear bumper of the vehicle and
visible for inspection.
   (I)   Resident parking permits shall be valid until publication of a public
notice otherwise by the City Manager. No person shall fail to surrender a
resident parking permit upon proper notice.
   (J)   There shall be no fee for a resident parking permit.
   (K)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs and/or curb or street markings to properly carry the
provisions of this section into effect.
   (L)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to properly
enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.013) (Ord. 78-1997, passed 6-12-1997) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.014 DOWNTOWN RESIDENTIAL PARKING ZONE.
   (A)   The downtown residential parking area shall be that property located
within the following boundaries: Greenup Avenue on the north, Carter Avenue on
the south, 18th Street on the east and 13th Street on the west.
   (B)   (1)   The Ashland Police Department shall issue downtown residential
parking permits to citizens of the city residing in the area described in
division (A) of this section. There shall be no more than two permits issued
per residential unit. The city will create a yearly fee of $120 (pro-rated
monthly from date of purchase) for the issuance of such permit and the amount
charged may be changed from time to time by the City Manager. The permit will
be renewed January 1 each year that this section is in effect. Failure to renew
will constitute a violation of this section.
      (2)   In order to obtain the permit the citizen must make application to
the Ashland Police Department providing documentation of Kentucky registration
and operator’s license to establish the applicant’s residency within the
designated area. Should the citizen obtaining the permit move from the area, he
or she shall notify the city of the move.
      (3)   The city may elect in the future to terminate the residential
parking set out under this section. If such action is taken, those affected
residents will be so notified. In the event that off-street parking is provided
for a residential unit, a parking permit will not be provided.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a parking permit, a valid resident parking permit
shall be affixed to the far left one-quarter of the rear bumper of the vehicle
and visible for inspection. Any vehicle displaying the parking permit may park
within the designated area beyond the city’s two-hour parking ordinance (Ord.
140, 2000). All other parking ordinances, not otherwise in conflict, of the
city still apply. At the time of application, a packet will be given to the
resident to ensure they are aware of the existing parking ordinances. Emphasis
will be given to abandoned vehicles, loading zones and handicap parking.
Winchester Avenue shall not be utilized by citizens with a residential parking
permit for free, no time limit parking. There will be no assigned parking
spaces, only a designated area.
   (D)   No persons shall represent in any fashion that a vehicle is entitled
to a resident parking permit authorized by ordinance of the Board of
Commissioners when not so entitled. The display of a resident parking permit on
a vehicle not entitled to such a resident parking permit shall constitute such
a representation.
   (E)   No person shall duplicate or attempt to duplicate, by any means, a
resident parking permit authorized by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
The display of such duplicate resident parking permit on a vehicle shall
constitute such a duplication.
   (F)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs and/or curb or street markings if needed, to properly
carry the provisions of this section into effect.
   (G)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to properly
enforce the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this section
shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 72.014) (Ord. 142-2007, passed 11-1-2007; Ord. 28-2018, passed
2-8-2018)
LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES
§ 72.025 LOADING OR UNLOADING IN PASSENGER ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of the vehicle to stop, stand or park
such vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger zone.
(Prior Code, § 72.025) Penalty, see §
72.999
BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS
§ 72.040 DESIGNATION OF STANDS AND TERMINALS.
   The City Manager shall be authorized and directed to establish bus stops and
terminals as will serve to the best interest of the public. It shall be the
duty of the City Manager to designate bus stops or terminals by appropriate
signs. The City Manager shall have the continuing authority to establish,
enlarge, diminish or discontinue any bus stops or terminals.
(Prior Code, § 72.040) (Ord. 46-1953, passed 12-15-1953)
§ 72.041 BUSES AND TAXIS TO USE DESIGNATED STOPS AND STANDS; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bus or taxicab to stand or park
on any street in any business district at any place other than at their own
designated stop, terminal or stand. This provision shall not prevent the
operator of such a vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other
parking regulations.
(Prior Code, § 72.041) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.042 USE BY OTHER VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle other than a bus to
stand or park in an official designated bus stop or terminal.
(Prior Code, § 72.042) Penalty, see §
72.999
PARKING METERS
§ 72.055 PARKING METER COVERS PERMITTED FOR SERVICE VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SERVICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle marked with identification of the name of
the business holding the business privilege license being utilized by the
business for whatever service is being provided to the consumer including, but
not limited to, any contractor engaged in construction, remodeling, cleaning
and the like.
   (B)   Businesses which on a yearly basis obtain a business privilege license
to operate within the city are hereby granted the authority to receive a
parking meter cover, while making extended service calls in the downtown area
on a temporary basis but not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Such parking meter cover shall permit the service vehicle to utilize
parking meter spaces only, except for 15 minute meters for business purposes,
and/or designated handicapped metered spaces. So long as the service vehicle
utilizes the parking meter cover issued him or her by placing same on a parking
meter, the service vehicle shall not be cited for overtime parking on such
covered meter.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of division (C) of this section shall be
revocation of the permit issued to the service vehicle and the existing penalty
for overtime parking of vehicles operated without such privilege.
   (E)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized to issue the
parking covers to those businesses qualified to receive same.
(Prior Code, § 72.063) (Ord. 98-1985, passed 8-9-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Licensing, see
Chapter 115
PARKING GARAGE
§ 72.070 FEES FOR PARKING SPACES IN PARKING GARAGE AT 17TH STREET AND CARTER
AVENUE.
   (A)   The Ashland Board of City Commissioners hereby sets the monthly fee
for parking spaces in the parking garage located at 17th Street and Carter
Avenue at $25 per space with a 10% discount if paid yearly.
   (B)   The Ashland Board of City Commissioners hereby sets event parking at
$200 per day for parking spaces located on the sixth floor of the parking
garage and other spaces as may be available.
   (C)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the day-to-day operation and
management of said garage.
(Prior Code, § 72.070) (Ord. 185, 2022, passed 12-15-2022)
DISABLED PARKING
§ 72.085 DESIGNATION OF RESERVED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISABLED PERSON. Any person who has a permanent disability rendering it
impossible, difficult, or burdensome for the person to walk and whose vehicle
bears officially issued identification as a vehicle driven by a disabled
person.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to select and
properly identify an adequate number of reserved parking spaces for use by
disabled persons within the city and to cause signs to be placed as notice that
the area is reserved for parking by the disabled.
   (C)   Reserved spaces for use by disabled persons shall be designated in
close proximity to all federal, state, county and municipal buildings or other
public facilities, and other locations determined by the City Manager to be
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 72.075) (Ord. 34-1980, passed 4-17-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Special registration plates and parking privileges for handicapped, see KRS
186.042
§ 72.086 UNLAWFUL TO PARK IN RESERVED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   When the signs provided herein are authorized and placed, it shall be
unlawful for any vehicle, other than a vehicle which is officially identified
by license plate or other official identification or distinguishing insignia as
a vehicle driven by a disabled person, to stop, stand, or park within such a
reserved parking space.
   (B)   Any person who does not qualify as a disabled person under the
definition applied by §
72.085 who abuses the parking privilege granted by this subchapter shall be
fined pursuant to the provisions outlined in KRS 189.459.
(Prior Code, § 72.076) (Ord. 34-1980, passed 4-17-1980; Ord. 129-2004, passed
8-19-2004) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.087 STANDARDIZED DISABLED PARKING SIGN USE.
   (A)   A parking lot servicing each entrance shall have a number of level
parking spaces as set forth in the following table. Each reserved parking space
shall be not less than 12 feet wide.
Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Up to 25             1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
501 to 1,000         2% of total
Over 1,000           20, plus one for each 100 spaces over 1,000
 
   (B)   It is the intent of this section to specifically require an above
grade sign. The sign is to indicate that designated parking spaces are
restricted to use by the physically disabled. These reserved parking spaces
should be adjacent to curb cuts or ramps so that disabled persons can avoid
passing behind parked cars. While there is not maximum distance between parking
spaces and the building entrance, it is required that they be as close as
possible. In most cases, this means the parking spaces closest to the building
entrance.
   (C)   These signs shall be 12 inches by 18 inches with the international
symbol to be reflective white on a six-inch by six-inch blue square on a
reflective white background with a green border and green lettering with the
words “Reserved Parking.” The bottom of these signs shall be erected seven feet
above grade. (For illustration, see attachment to Ord. 103-1988.)
   (D)   Such signs shall be available for purchase at cost from the City
Cashier.
   (E)   When the signs provided herein are properly erected, it shall be
unlawful for any vehicle, other than a vehicle which is officially identified
by license plate, or other official identification or distinguishing insignia,
as a vehicle driven by a disabled person, to stop, stand or park within such a
reserved parking space.
   (F)   For the section of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISABLED PERSON. Any person who has a permanent disability rendering it
impossible, difficult or burdensome for such person to walk and whose vehicle
bears officially issued identification as a vehicle driven by a disabled
person.
   (G)   No person who does not qualify as a disabled person under the
definition applied by this section shall abuse the parking privilege granted by
this section.
   (H)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby authorized and directed to
take appropriate steps to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.077) (Ord. 103-1988, passed 9-12-1988) Penalty, see §
72.999
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.100 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Manager decides, on the basis of falling snow, sleet
or freezing rain, or on the basis of a firm forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau
of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary
that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on public ways within
corporate limits of the city be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing or
other purposes, the City Manager, with the approval of the Commissioner of
Highways of the Commonwealth whenever state maintained highways are involved,
shall put into effect, as necessary, parking prohibitions on parts or all of
Snow Emergency Routes (Stage 1 Emergency), parking restrictions on public ways
not designated as Snow Emergency Routes (Stage 2 Emergency), and travel
restrictions on public ways designated as Snow Emergency Routes (Stage 3
Emergency), by declaring and announcing a snow emergency in the manner
prescribed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Manager shall cause each snow emergency declaration made by
him or her pursuant to this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of
broadcast or telecast from radio and television stations with a normal
operating range covering Boyd County. He or she may cause the declaration to be
further announced in newspapers of general circulation within Boyd County. Each
announcement shall be made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. and
shall describe the action taken by the City Manager, including the time the
snow emergency and resulting vehicular parking or travel restrictions became or
will become effective, which shall be as specified by the City Manager, but not
less than one hour after the snow emergency is first publicly announced and,
further, shall specify the extent of vehicular parking or travel restrictions
in effect. The City Manager shall make or cause to be made a record of each
date and time when any declaration is announced to the public in accordance
with this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.090) (Ord. 77-1978, passed 12-7-1978)
§ 72.101 PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE. Any public street, highway or thoroughfare
designated by the City Manager as a snow emergency route and posted by the
Department of Public Services with special signs properly identifying the
route. The special signs on the route shall be posted at intervals not
exceeding 1,000 feet and shall be posted on both sides of the route.
   (B)   No vehicle is authorized to park in any public way designated as a
snow emergency route when a Stage 1 Snow Emergency has been declared by the
City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 72.091) (Ord.77-1978, passed 12-7-1978) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.102 PARKING ON NON-SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SECONDARY STREET. Any public street, highway or thoroughfare which is not
designated and signed as a “snow emergency route.”
   (B)   No vehicle is authorized to park on any public way defined by division
(A) if this section as a secondary street when a Stage 2 Snow Emergency has
been declared by the City Manager except in the following situations:
      (1)   On the even numbered side of the secondary street from 8:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any even numbered day until 8:00 a.m., prevailing time, the
following day; and
      (2)   On the odd numbered side of the secondary street from 8:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, of any odd numbered day, until 8:00 a.m., prevailing time, the
following day.
(Prior Code, § 72.092) (Ord. 77-1978, passed 12-7-1978) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.103 TRAVEL ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   No vehicle is authorized to travel on any public way designated as a snow
emergency route as defined in §
72.100 when a Stage 3 Snow Emergency has been declared by the City Manager
unless the vehicle meets one of the following requirements.
   (A)   Equipped with snow tires;
   (B)   Equipped with snow chains;
   (C)   Equipped with four-wheel drive;
   (D)   An emergency vehicle as defined by Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   (E)   A vehicle approved by the City Manager for travel during the snow
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 72.093) (Ord. 77-1978, passed 12-7-1978) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.104 EMERGENCY REMOVAL OF PARKED OR DISABLED VEHICLES; EXPENSES TO BE BORNE
BY OWNER.
   (A)   During any snow emergency declared by the City Manager, the Division
of Police is authorized to remove, or have removed, any vehicle from a public
way to the nearest place of safety (including another place on a public way),
or to a place designated or maintained by the City Manager, Mayor or Board of
City Commissioners when the following occur:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a public way designated as a snow
emergency route while a parking prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is parked in violation of §
72.102 and is interfering with or about to interfere with snow removal
operations; and
      (3)   The vehicle is stalled or disabled on the normally traveled portion
of any public way, when the owner or operator thereof is not promptly pursuing
the removal of the vehicle.
   (B)   The removal of vehicles as authorized herein is supplemental to any
other provision of law granting the Division of Police authority to remove
vehicles.
   (C)   The owner of any towed or removed vehicle shall be responsible for any
expenses incurred including, but not limited to, towing and storage fees.
(Prior Code, § 72.094) (Ord. 77-1978, passed 12-7-1978)
§ 72.105 OTHER PARKING REGULATIONS TO APPLY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to permit parking at any time
or place where it is forbidden by any ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.095) (Ord. 77-1978, passed 12-7-1978)
STREET SWEEPING
§ 72.120 STREET SWEEPING SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Board of City Commissioners hereby adopts by reference a street
sweeping schedule for the city and shall include those areas set forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule XI.
   (B)   This street sweeping schedule will result in “No Parking” for certain
areas and time periods.
   (C)   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs to carry the provisions of this section into effect.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to take
appropriate steps to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.100) (Ord. 52-1996, passed 6-6-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999(P)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.135 CITY MANAGER MAY GRANT EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVE FEES.
   (A)   The city has, by ordinance, established specific parking regulations
which limit the length of time parking stalls may be used, establish parking
meter fees, define the location of loading and handicapped parking spaces and
fix penalties for violations thereof.
   (B)   The City Manager is authorized under unusual and/or special
circumstances to grant to not-for-profit organizations involved in voluntary
humanitarian service to the community, when alternative parking is not
available and the need for parking is recurring, exemption to any ordinance
which limits the length of time parking stalls may be used and/or waive payment
of the parking meter fee.
   (C)   The burden of proof shall rest with the organization requesting
exemption as set forth in division (B) of this section and there is absolutely
no obligation on the city to provide any such exemption. The City Manager shall
maintain a file of any such exemptions granted under this policy for review by
the Board of City Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 72.105) (Ord. 2-1990, passed 1-16-1990)
§ 72.136 TOWING UNLAWFULLY PARKED VEHICLES; PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   In addition to the other penalties provided for the violation of this
chapter, whenever any vehicle is parked on the public streets of the city in
violation of any provision of this chapter or other city ordinance or at a time
during which the public has been properly notified not to park on any street
because of street cleaning operations, the city shall have the authority to
remove such an unlawfully parked vehicle and have it taken to a place
designated by the city. The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for and
be required to pay any towing charges thereby incurred.
(Prior Code, § 72.106) (Ord. 15-1955, passed 3-22-1955)
§ 72.137 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE THAT VIOLATION COMMITTED WITH AUTHORITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The violation of any ordinance relating to nonmoving traffic
violations by means of a motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that the
violation was committed by or with the authority or permission of the owner of
the vehicle. Each such violation shall constitute a separate offense by the
owner.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, proof of the registration of any
vehicle in the name of any person shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of
the vehicle by the person in whose name it is registered.
(Prior Code, § 72.107) (Ord. 101-1980, passed 10-2-1980)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter for which another penalty is not provided, shall be fined as follows.
      (1)   For the offense of parking in any of the places in violation of any
section of this chapter or any schedule of Chapter 75, or in any place where
official signs or markings prohibit parking, the person shall be fined as
follows.
         (a)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter, the rate
shall be affixed at $10; or
         (b)   If violation of any schedule of Chapter 75 results in a uniform
citation being issued, violators shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than
$100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
      (2)   For the offense of overtime parking in designated places and double
parking, the person shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation, $2;
         (b)   For the second such violation, $4;
         (c)   For the third such violation, $6; and
         (d)   For all subsequent violations not less than $6 nor more than
$20, and the costs of the court for each offense.
      (3)   For all other offenses in violation of the provisions of this
chapter the person shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $20 and the
costs of the court for each offense, except for the offense of operating
vehicles while in an intoxicated condition, for which each person shall be
fined $100 and costs for each violation.
      (4)   All persons cited for the first, second and third violations
aforesaid may deposit with the desk sergeant of the Police Department of the
city the amount of the penalty hereby imposed for the particular offense with
which he or she is charged, which deposit shall be treated as a forfeiture to
the city and, in which event, the person cited shall not be required to appear
in the police court in answer to the charge.
      (5)   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of
Chapter 75, Sch. VII who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate
shall not be less than $10;
         (b)   If a violation of
Chapter 75, Sch. VII results in a uniform citation being issued, any person,
firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
Chapter 75, Sch. VII shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be
punished by a fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided
in KRS 534.040 for a violation offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §§
72.003,
72.007 or
72.011 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
72.008 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $20 for each offense, in the discretion of the court or jury trying
the case.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
72.009 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine in any
sum not less than $25 nor more than $100 in the discretion of the court or jury
trying the case.
(KRS 189.751)
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
72.012 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum
not less than $10 nor more than $25, in the discretion of the court or jury
trying the case. Each day the violation shall continue beyond the effective
date of this division (E) may be deemed a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of
Chapter 75, Sch. V, relating to overtime parking at parking meters and who is
issued a citation for that offense shall be penalized as follows.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the penalty imposed for overtime
parking at parking meters, all time limits shall be computed from the time
citation was placed upon the motor vehicle.
      (2)   If paid before the expiration of four hours, the penalty shall be
$5 for each citation. If paid between four and 72 hours the penalty shall be
$10 for each citation. The penalty may be paid by placing the correct amount of
money within the citation envelope in accordance with the instructions thereon
and depositing the envelope in a curb box (sometimes called a “traffic ticket
box”) provided for that purpose at various locations throughout the parking
meter area. In lieu of using the curb box for payment, the penalty or penalties
may be paid at the Traffic Department located in the city building.
      (3)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to pay the overtime
citation shall be deemed guilty of a violation and a summons shall be issued
from the Boyd District Court.
      (4)   After any such citation is referred by the city to the Boyd
District Court, but prior to prosecution, prepayment of a $10 penalty plus
court costs may be made to the Boyd Circuit Court Clerk.
      (5)   Upon prosecution by the Boyd District Court, if the violator is
found guilty, a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than $25 for each
offense, in the discretion of the court or jury trying the case, plus court
costs, shall be imposed.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate §
71.56 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned not more than 12 months or both.
   (H)   Any person violating §
72.086(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the terms of §
72.087(E) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum
not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (J)   Whoever violates any provision of §
72.087(G) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
in addition to any other penalty which such person may otherwise incur or have
imposed by law, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (K)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
72.102 through
72.105 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50.
   (L)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
72.013 who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not be
less than $15.
      (2)   If violation of §
72.013 results in a uniform citation being issued, any person, firm or
corporation who shall violate the provisions of that section shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a fine not less than $15 nor
more than $250.
   (M)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
72.120(B) who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not
be less than $10.
      (2)   If violation of §
72.120(B) results in a uniform citation being issued, any person, firm or
corporation who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a fine not less than $10 nor
more than $250.
   (N)   Penalty for exceeding the two-hour time limit: any person, firm or
corporation who shall violate the provisions of
Chapter 75, Sch. VIII shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be
punished by a fine appropriate to the violation.
   (O)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of
Chapter 75, Sch. I or
Sch. VIII, who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall be
not less than $10.
      (2)   If violation of
Chapter 75, Sch. I or
Sch. VIII, results in a uniform citation being issued, any person, firm or
corporation who shall violate the provisions of
Chapter 75, Schedule I or
Sch. VIII, shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040
for a violation offense.
   (P)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Title VII: Traffic Code,
Chapter 75 Parking Schedules, the fine for parking violations in the city shall
be $10 for the first offense if paid within 15 days, $20 for the second offense
if paid within 15 days, and $30 for the third offense if paid within 15 days.
All fines shall be increased by $10 if paid after 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 72.999) (Ord. 59-1962, passed 9-10-1962; Ord. 9-1964, passed 3-
9-1964; Ord. 77-1978, passed 12-7-1978; Ord. 34-1980, passed 4-17-1980; Ord.
48-1982, passed 6-3-1982; Ord. 103-1988, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 35, passed 2-
17-1994; Ord. 52-1996, passed 6-6-1996; Ord. 78-1997, passed 6-12-1997; Ord.
129-2004, passed 8-19-2004; Ord. 44-2010, passed 4-15-2010; Ord. 108-2011,
passed 9-15-2011; Ord. 82-2013, passed 8-22-2013; Ord. 83-2013, passed 8-22-
2013; Ord. 84-2013, passed 8-22-2013; Ord. 52-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 114,
2024, passed 6-28-2024)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Prohibited operation on certain city streets
   
73.03   Operation
   
73.04   Traffic regulations applicable
   
73.05   Exemptions
   
73.06   Towing and storage
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 25 mph;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500 as follows:
         (a)   Head lamps (two required);
         (b)   Tail lamps (two required);
         (c)   Slow moving vehicle emblem;
         (d)   Side reflectors - each side (front amber/back red);
         (e)   Stop lamps (brake lights);
         (f)   Exterior mirror mounted on driver’s side and either an exterior
mirror on passenger side or interior (rearview) mirror;
         (g)   Parking brake;
         (h)   Type 1 or 2 seatbelt assembly installed at each designated
seating position; and
         (i)   Windshield.
(Prior Code, § 75.01) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022)
§ 73.02 PROHIBITED OPERATION ON CERTAIN CITY STREETS.
   Golf carts, as defined in this chapter, may only be operated on Ashland city
streets for which the speed limit is 25 mph or less, provided however and
notwithstanding the applicable speed limit, no golf carts may be operated on
the following streets of the city at any time:
6th Street
12th Street
13th Street
29th Street
South 29th Street
39th Street
43rd Street
55th Street
Ashland Avenue
Beech Street
Belmont Street
Berry Street
Blackburn Avenue
Boy Scout Road
Carolyn Street
Carter Avenue
Dawes Street
Division Street (brick section only)
Floyd Street
Grandview Drive
Greenup Avenue
Lexington Avenue
Megan Neyer Way (f/k/a Old 13th Street)
Moore Street
Oakview Road
Prospect Avenue
Ramey Street
Raybourne Road
Roberts Drive
Russell Street
Sherwood Drive
Simpson Road
Skyline Drive
Terrace Boulevard (brick section only)
Winchester Avenue
Winding Road
Winslow Road
Woodland Avenue
 
(Prior Code, § 75.02) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATION.
   In order to be operated lawfully on such designated city streets, a golf
cart shall:
   (A)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city following a completed
application, safety inspection, and ordinance review by the city’s Police
Department for a one-time fee of $25. Permits must be renewed annually.
Applications for a permit may be obtained from the city’s Police Department.
The completed application must be turned in to the city’s Police Department in
person by the owner of the golf cart with all required documents;
   (B)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on roadways within the city;
   (C)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Boyd County
Sheriff’s office and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to
ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this chapter. The
inspection fee under this division (C) shall be $5 if the inspection occurs at
the Sheriff’s office or $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary for the
certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than having
the golf cart brought to the Sheriff’s office. A proof of inspection by the
Boyd County Sheriff shall be kept in the golf cart at all times of operation on
a public roadway. The permit shall remain valid for as long as the cart belongs
to the original owner;
   (D)   Displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820;
   (E)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator,
and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of
operation on a public roadway;
   (F)   Be operated on approved city streets only between sunrise and sunset;
   (G)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession;
   (H)   Be restricted such that the operation of a golf cart does not cross
any roadway at an intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted
speed limit of more than 35 mph; does not cross any street on which operation
of a golf cart is prohibited by §
73.02; and does not cross any state route that has been prohibited by the
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet; and
   (I)   Be operated only on a designated city roadway approved by the Board of
Commissioners and as set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.03) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and
any other applicable provisions of this code of ordinances pertaining to the
operation of vehicles upon city streets. Golf carts are not permitted to be
parked on or across a city street, sidewalk or multi-use pathway.
(Prior Code, § 75.04) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022)
§ 73.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway is not considered to be a motor
vehicle and is exempt from:
   (A)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
   (B)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050;
   (C)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720;
   (D)   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart
on a public roadway designated under §
73.02 that crosses a state-maintained highway under its jurisdiction if it
determines that such prohibition is necessary in the interest of public safety;
and
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person of
any legal duties or obligation created by any other statute or ordinance.
Promulgation of this chapter does not preclude legal enforcement by any peace
officer or traffic control officer of any provision of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, including the prohibition against operating an unlicensed or
unregistered motor vehicle on the public roads of the Commonwealth unless that
motor vehicle falls within the exceptions created by this chapter or any other
existing law, ordinance or regulation in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022)
§ 73.06 TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   An officer is authorized to have a towing service remove any golf cart
or other self-propelled means of transportation from a city street to a storage
facility when not operating with a valid permit as required in this chapter,
not possessing an element required by Kentucky Revised Statutes or this
chapter, or when parked upon a city street, sidewalk or multi-use path or
otherwise not in conformity with Kentucky Revised Statutes or this chapter.
   (B)   The golf cart shall be released from the storage facility to the owner
upon approval by the Chief of Police or his or her designee and payment of all
towing and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 75.06) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall upon
conviction of a first offense be guilty of a violation and be fined not less
than $100 and not more than $250. Any person convicted of a subsequent
violation of this chapter within two years of a prior conviction under this
chapter shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to allow golf carts to
operate on sidewalks, in bike lanes, within city parks, or on any other area of
the city other than city streets designated in §
73.02. Nor shall anything in this chapter be interpreted to allow the operation
of golf carts not meeting the full definition of §
73.01 hereof to operate on any public roadway anywhere in the city.
(Prior Code, § 75.99) (Ord. 47, 2022, passed 4-15-2022)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Bicycles prohibited on certain sidewalks
   
II.   Entering streets from certain alleys prohibited
   
III.   Left turns at certain intersections prohibited
   
IV.   Load limits on certain streets
   
V.   One-way streets and alley
   
VI.   Pedestrian crosswalks
   
VII.   Right turns on red prohibited
   
VIII.   Speed limits
   
IX.   Stop intersections
   
X.   Traffic lights
   
XI.   Turn only lanes
   
XII.   Through trucks prohibited
   
XIII.   Quiet zones
SCHEDULE I. BICYCLES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on the sidewalk
as follows:
 
Street                       Location                     Ord.     Date Passed
North side of Lexington      Between 17th Street and 22nd 118-2000 9-7-2000
Avenue                       Street
East side of 17th Street     Between Lexington Avenue and 118-2000 9-7-2000
                             Central Avenue
South side of Central Avenue Between 17th Street and 22nd 118-2000 9-7-2000
                             Street
West side of 22nd Street     Between Lexington Avenue and 118-2000 9-7-2000
                             Central Avenue
 
   (B)   Bicycles with training wheels or tricycles ridden by young children
who are accompanied by an adult are excepted from this restriction.
   (C)   Any person violating this ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
violation and shall be punished by fine of not less than $3 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. I) (Ord. 154-1992, passed 12-15-1992; Ord. 118-2000,
passed 9-7-2000)
SCHEDULE II. ENTERING STREETS FROM CERTAIN ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any traffic to enter the following streets from the
following indicated alleys.
 
Street      Alley Entering                                    Ord. Date Passed
            The alleys located between Winchester and Greenup
12th Street Avenues and located in a northerly direction from 14   3-30-1959
            the intersection of 12th and Winchester
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. II) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE III. LEFT TURNS AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any vehicle to make a left turn in
any of the following locations, or at any place marked no left turns as
designated by the Chief of Police.
 
From              Direction Onto                             Ord. Date Passed
Winchester Avenue West      Ashland Town Center Mall at Town 94   9-5-1989
                            Center Drive
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. III) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. LOAD LIMITS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle over or
on the following streets or portions thereof, when the weight of the motor
vehicle, including the load thereon, exceeds the limit indicated. The Chief of
Police is hereby authorized and directed to take appropriate steps to enforce
the provisions of this schedule. The Director of Public Services is hereby
authorized and directed to install appropriate signs to carry the provisions of
this schedule into effect.
 
Street             Location           Weight Limit         Ord.    Date Passed
                                      6,000 (GVW) pounds -
                                      vehicles weighing in
                   Parallel to the    excess shall be
Access street from east side of the   permitted for
Winchester Avenue  Simeon Willis      delivery to or       54-1988 6-9-1988
to Greenup Avenue  Bridge             loading from 1300
                                      Greenup Avenue and
                                      1301 Winchester
                                      Avenue only
                   Between Crooks
Holt Street        Street and 29th    10 gross tons        63      10-6-1977
                   Street
Washington Avenue                    5 tons               -       - -
13th Street (U.S.                     Trucks with three
60) (Restricted to Between the        axles or more,
curb lane, except  intersections of   either straight-     1-1990  1-16-1990
for left-turn      Pollard Road and   frame or tractor-
movements where    Winslow Road       trailer combination
permitted)
40th Street        Railroad crossing  26,000 pounds (GVW)  84      6-7-1994
                                      6,000 pounds (GVW),
                   Northbound between except for
13th Street alley  Winchester and     deliveries loading   109     8-4-1994
                   Greenup Avenues as or unloading at
                   a through street   businesses abutting
                                      13th Street alley
 
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this schedule
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum not less
than $25 nor more than $100 in the discretion of the court or jury trying the
case.
(KRS 189.990) (Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. IV) (Ord. 109, passed 8-4-1994)
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEY.
   (A)   The following streets and alleys and portions thereof are designated
as one-way in the direction indicated. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized
and directed to properly carry the provisions of this schedule into effect and
take appropriate steps to enforce them. The Director of Public Services is
hereby authorized and directed to install appropriate signs and street markings
where they are required to carry the provisions of this schedule into effect.
Street Location Direction Ord. Date Passed
Street              Location            Direction       Ord.     Date Passed
Alley north of the  From intersection
floodwall between   with 13th Street to East            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Front Street and    intersection with
Greenup Avenue      15th Street
Alley between Front From intersection
Street and Greenup  with 17th Street to West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Avenue              intersection with
                    15th Street
                    From its
Alley between       intersection with
Greenup Avenue and  11th Street to its  West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Winchester Avenue   intersection with
                    12th Street
                    From its
Alley between       intersection with
Greenup Avenue and  12th Street to its  East            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Winchester Avenue   intersection with
                    13th Street
Alley between       From intersection
Greenup Avenue and  with 16th Street to West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Winchester Avenue   intersection with
                    14th Street
Alley between       From intersection
Korean War Veterans with 18th Street to West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Way and Winchester  intersection with
Avenue              17th Street
                    From intersection
                    with 12th Street to
                    intersection with
                    13th Street and
Alley between       from a point midway
Winchester Avenue   between             East            37, 2025 4-1-2025
and Carter Avenue   intersection with
                    14th Street and
                    intersection with
                    15th Street to
                    intersection with
                    17th Street
                    From westerly
Alexander Place     intersection with
(portion also known Lexington Avenue to South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
as 27th Street)     westerly
                    intersection with
                    Hilton Avenue
                    From southerly
Alexander Place     intersection with
(portion also known Hilton Avenue to    North           37, 2025 4-1-2025
as 28th Street)     northerly
                    intersection with
                    Lexington Avenue
                    From its
                    intersection with
Armco Road          Mall Road to its    West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Town Center Drive
                    From its
                    intersection with
Bath Avenue         29th Street to its  West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Deal Street
                    From intersection
                    with 22nd Street to
Carter Avenue       intersection with   West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    Martin Luther King,
                    Jr. Blvd.
                    From intersection
                    with 13th Street to
                    intersection with
                    25th Street and
Central Avenue      from its            East            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    29th Street to
                    intersection with
                    35th Street
                    From intersection
Front Street        with 15th Street to West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    13th Street
                    From intersection
                    with Blackburn
Kansas Street       Avenue to           East            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Stadium Lane
                    From intersection
Korean War Veterans with 17th Street to West            37, 2025 4-1-2025
Way                 intersection with
                    18th Street
                    From intersection
                    with Winchester
Mall Road           Avenue to           North           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Armco Road
                    From intersection
Martin Luther King, with Winchester
Jr. Boulevard       Avenue to           South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    13th Street
                    From intersection
                    with 9th Street to
                    intersection with
                    10th Street and
Montgomery Avenue   from its            East            37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    29th Street to its
                    intersection with
                    31st Street
                    Between Carter
Railroad Alley      Avenue and Central  West then east  37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Winchester
Ringo Street        Avenue to           South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Carter Avenue
                    From westerly
                    intersection with
Rogers Court        Lexington Avenue to South and then  37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    easterly            north
                    intersection with
                    Lexington Avenue
                    From intersection
Town Center Drive   with Armco Road to  South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Winchester Avenue
                    From westerly
                    intersection with
Windsor Court       Lexington Avenue to South and then  37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    its easterly        north
                    intersection with
                    Lexington Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Fischel Court
Woodlawn Avenue     to intersection     South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    with Blazer
                    Boulevard
                    From intersection
                    with Central Avenue
9th Street          to intersection     South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    with Montgomery
                    Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Greenup Avenue
10th Street         to intersection     South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    with Winchester
                    Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Winchester
11th Street         Avenue to           North           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Greenup Avenue
                    From its
                    intersection with
12th Street         Greenup Avenue to   North           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    its intersection
                    with Winchester
                    Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Front Street
                    to intersection
13th Street         with the alley      South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    north of the
                    floodwall between
                    Front Street and
                    Greenup Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Martin Luther
13th Street         King, Jr. Boulevard North           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    to intersection
                    with Winchester
                    Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Winchester
14th Street         Avenue to           South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Lexington Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Winchester
16th Street         Avenue to           South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    intersection with
                    Lexington Avenue
                    From intersection
                    with Carter Avenue
32nd Street         to a point 92 feet  North           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    from its
                    intersection with
                    Winchester Avenue
Walters Street and  From Belmont Street
an unnamed alley    to its intersection East then north 37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    with Simpson Road
                    From intersection
                    with Fischel Court
Woodlawn Avenue     to intersection     South           37, 2025 4-1-2025
                    with Blazer
                    Boulevard
 
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this schedule relating to the movement of vehicular traffic shall be deemed
guilty of a violation and shall be punished by the maximum penalty provided in
KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. V) (Ord. 37, 2025, passed 4-1-2025)
SCHEDULE VI. PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established upon the following avenues
and at the intersections hereinafter indicated crosswalks, which shall be
plainly marked for the use of pedestrians. Pedestrians crossing these avenues
at places other than such crosswalks within the limits herein fixed shall be
guilty of a violation of this schedule.
Street Location Ord. Date Passed
Street             Location                           Ord.      Date Passed
Carl Perkins Drive 180 feet its intersection with 6th 214, 2024 12-13-2024
                   Street
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 12th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 13th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 14th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 15th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 16th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 17th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Carter Avenue      Intersection with 18th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Greenup Avenue     Intersection with 13th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Greenup Avenue     Intersection with 14th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Greenup Avenue     Intersection with 15th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Greenup Avenue     Intersection with 16th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Greenup Avenue     Intersection with 17th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Lexington Avenue   In front of UK King s Daughters    214, 2024 12-13-2024
                   located at 2201 Lexington Avenue
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 12th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 13th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 14th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 15th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 16th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 17th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 18th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
Winchester Avenue  Intersection with 19th Street      214, 2024 12-13-2024
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating the terms of this schedule shall be
subject to the penalty set forth in
10.99.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. VI)
SCHEDULE VII. RIGHT TURNS ON RED PROHIBITED.
   Right turns against a steady red signal are specifically prohibited at the
following locations, subject to the approval of the State Department of
Transportation, Bureau of Highways.
Intersection or Location Time Ord. Date Passed
Intersection or Location Time                     Ord.     Date Passed
Algonquin Avenue, 13th
Street (U.S. 60), and
Blackburn Avenue (Ky.
168), five-corner
intersection, with the   All times                22       2-28-1992
exception of right turns
from 13th Street onto
Blackburn Avenue, which
shall be permitted
                         7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
Carter Avenue and 9th    and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00
Street                   p.m. Monday through      121      12-15-1981
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
                         7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
From Central Avenue onto and 2:00 p.m. to 3:00    20;
17th Street              p.m. Monday through      26       2-21-1980; 3-7-1989
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
                         7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
From Lexington Avenue    and 2:00 p.m. to 3:00    20;
onto 17th Street         p.m. Monday through      26       2-21-1980; 3-7-1989
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
                         7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
From Winchester Avenue   and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00    20;
onto 10th Street         p.m. Monday through      26       2-21-1980; 3-7-1989
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
From Winchester Avenue
onto the 13th Street     All times                53       6-14-1990
bridge and access road
From Winchester Avenue   All times                -        - -
onto 16th Street
                         7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
9th Street and Carter    and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00
Avenue                   p.m. Monday through      121      12-15-1981
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
                         7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
From 10th Street onto    and 2:00 p.m. to 3:00    20;
Winchester Avenue        p.m. Monday through      26       2-21-1980; 3-7-1989
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
13th Street, Blackburn
Avenue and Algonquin     All times                -        - -
Avenue
From 13th Street onto    All times                -        - -
Winchester Avenue
16th Street at its
southerly intersection
with Winchester Avenue,  All times                45       5-19-1981
in an easterly direction
on Winchester Avenue
                         7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
From 17th Street onto    and 2:00 p.m. to 3:30    20;
Central Avenue           p.m. Monday through      26       2-21-1980; 3-7-1989
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
                         7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
From 17th Street onto    and 2:00 p.m. to 3:30    20;
Lexington Avenue         p.m. Monday through      26       2-21-1980; 3-7-1989
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
                         7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
29th Street and Kansas   and 2:30 p.m. to 4:00
Street                   p.m. Monday through      145-1983 10-20-1983
                         Friday when school is in
                         session
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. VII) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE VIII. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit within the city shall be set at 25 mph, subject to the
exceptions as set out in the following schedule.
Street Location Speed Limit (mph) Ord. Date Passed
Street         Location               Speed Limit (mph) Ord.    Date Passed
Belmont Street All                    35                49-2006 4-20-2006
               From the junction of
               Roberts Drive at the
Ky. Route 168  west corporate limits  *                 49-2006 4-20-2006
               to the eastern end of
               Valley View Drive
               From the junction of
Ky. Route 1012 Ky. Route 168 at South *                 49-2006 4-20-2006
               Belmont Street to the
               junction of U.S. 60
Roberts Drive  All                    35                49-2006 4-20-2006
Streets within                        10                49-2006 4-20-2006
Central Park
Skyline Drive  From Floyd Street to   35                49-2006 4-20-2006
               Boy Scout Road
               From the east
               corporate limits at
U.S. Route 23  55th Street to the     *                 49-2006 4-20-2006
               west corporate limits
               at the viaduct at
               First Street
               From the east
               corporate limits at
U.S. Route 60  55th Street to the     *                 49-2006 4-20-2006
               south corporate limits
               near Boy Scout Road
               and 13th Street
               From its intersection
29th Street    with Belmont Street to 30                49-2006 4-20-2006
               Hampton Street
*   Speed limits on these state maintained highways and public parking lots
will be determined by the Commissioner of Highways, pursuant to KRS 189.390
 
   (B)   Should the Board of Commissioners determine that the speed limit on
any city maintained street is greater or less than is reasonable or safe for
the orderly movement of traffic, based on engineering and/or traffic
investigations, an ordinance may be approved by and affirmative vote of the
Board of Commissioners to change the limits, provided that the changes does not
cause the limit to be greater than 55 mph.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section relating to motor vehicle speed limits shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined any sum not less than $1 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. VIII) (Ord. 49-2006, passed 4-20-2006) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE IX. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The Director of Public Services is hereby authorized and directed to
install, maintain and inspect the signs set forth in this section. The Chief of
Police is hereby authorized and directed to properly carry the provisions of
this schedule into effect and to take appropriate steps to enforce this
schedule.
   (A)   Permanent stop signs.
Permanent Stop Signs
Street Intersects with Location of sign Ord. Date
Permanent Stop Signs
Street           Intersects with  Location of sign  Ord.      Date
                 Beverly          All three corners 169-1995; 12-21-1995; 10-
Ackley Avenue    Boulevard        of the            128       02-2001
                                  intersection
Ackley Avenue    Johnson Avenue   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Johnson
                                  East/westbound on
Ackley Avenue    Maryland Parkway Maryland Parkway; 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/ southbound
                                  on Ackley Avenue
Acorn Street     Sherwood Drive   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Acorn Street
Adams Avenue     Devore Street    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Devore Street
                                  North/southbound
Adams Avenue     Evans Street     on Evans Street;  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Adams Avenue
Adams Avenue     Montague Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Montague Street
Adolphus Street  Morgan Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Adolphus Street
Akers Street     Hart Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Akers Street
Alexander Place  Hilton Avenue    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Alexander Place
Algonquin Avenue Iroquois Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Iroquois Avenue
Algonquin Avenue Shawnee Avenue   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Shawnee Avenue
Algonquin Avenue Seminole Avenue  Northbound on     126       9-4-1997
                                  Algonquin Avenue
Alley between                     Eastbound in
Winchester       14th Street      alley with 14th   93-2005   6-3-2005
Avenue and                        Street
Carter Avenue
Alley between
Winchester                        Eastbound 195 ft.
Avenue and       14th Street      from intersection 39-2012   6-7-2012
Carter Avenue -                   with 14th Street
1400 Block
Alley between                     Eastbound in
Winchester       15th Street      alley with 15th   169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue and                        Street
Carter Avenue
Alley between
Winchester                        Eastbound 168 ft.
Avenue and       15th Street      from intersection 39-2012   6-7-2012
Carter Avenue -                   with 15th Street
1500 Block
Alley between
Railroad Avenue  30th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
and Carter                        30th Street
Avenue
Alley between
Railroad Avenue  31st Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
and Carter                        31st Street
Avenue
Alley between
Railroad Avenue  32nd Street      Eastbound on 32nd 169-1995  12-21-1995
and Carter                        Street
Avenue
                                  East/westbound in
                                  alley at
Alley between                     pedestrian
Bath and Carter  22nd Street      entrance to       68-2018   4-26-2018
Avenues                           Ashland First
                                  Church of the
                                  Nazarene (2201
                                  Bath Avenue)
Alpha Street     Willis Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Alpha Street
Altamont Drive   Blackburn Avenue North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Altamont Drive
                                  On Mall
Armco Road       Mall Road        Crossroad; on     149       11-8-2001
                                  Mall off-ramp
                 Country Club     Westbound on
Ashland Avenue   Court            Country Club      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Court
                                  Southbound on
                                  Ashland Avenue;
Ashland Avenue   Forest Avenue    westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Forest Avenue;
                                  northbound past
                                  Lynwood
Ashland Avenue   Hackworth Street East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hackworth Street
Ashland Avenue   Hampton Street   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hampton Street
Ashland Avenue   Hillcrest Road   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hillcrest Road
Ashland Avenue   Hilton Avenue    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hilton Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
Ashland Avenue   Holt Street      Holt Street;      169-1995; 12-21-1995; 10-
                                  north/southbound  140       16-1997
                                  on Ashland Avenue
Ashland Avenue   Lexington Avenue Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ashland Avenue
                                  Westbound on
                                  Lynnwood Avenue;
Ashland Avenue   Lynnwood Avenue  northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ashland Avenue
                                  southbound on
                                  Ashland Avenue
                                  Southbound on
                                  Ashland Avenue;
Ashland Avenue   Moore Street     westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Moore Street with
                                  end of Ashland
                                  Avenue
Ashland Avenue   Newman Street    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Newman Street
Ashland Avenue   Woodland Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodland Avenue
Ashworth Street  Highland Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ashworth Street
Ashworth Street  Norwood Avenue   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Norwood Avenue
Ashworth Street  Shelby Avenue    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ashworth Street
Auburn Avenue    East Euclid      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           on Auburn Avenue
Auburn Avenue    Thompson Drive,  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 north            Thompson Drive
Auburn Avenue    Ridgeway Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Auburn Avenue
Automobile Alley Florence Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Automobile Alley
Automobile Alley Nichols Place    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Nichols Place
Azalea Drive     Boy Scout Road   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Azalea Drive
Ballard Street   Blackburn Avenue Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ballard Street
Ballard Street   Cactus Street    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cactus Street
Ballard Street   Logan Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Logan Street
Banbury Road     Shadowlawn Drive Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Banbury Road
Banbury Road     Sherwood Drive   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Banbury Road
Barber Street    Sanders Road     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sanders Road
Bartlett Street  Kirk Street      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bartlett Street
Barton Court     Main Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Barton Court
Bath Avenue      Deal Street      Eastbound on Bath 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
Bath Avenue      12th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
Bath Avenue      14th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
Bath Avenue      15th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
Bath Avenue      16th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
Bath Avenue      23rd Street      Bath Avenue;      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on 23rd Street
                                  Westbound on Bath
Bath Avenue      24th Street      Avenue; north/    169-1995; 12-21-1995; 5-26-
                                  southbound on     64, 2023  2023
                                  24th Street
                                  Southbound on
Bath Avenue      30th Street      30th Street 500   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block with Bath
                                  Avenue
                                  Southbound on
                                  31st Street 500
                                  block; Northbound
Bath Avenue      31st Street      on 31st Street    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  600 block; east/
                                  westbound on Bath
                                  Avenue with 31st
                                  Street
                                  Southbound on
Bath Avenue      32nd Street      32nd Street 500   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block
Beckett Street   Delaware Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Beckett Street
Beech Street     Charles Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Charles Street
Beech Street     Dawes Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dawes Street
Beech Street     McClelland       Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           McClelland Street
Beech Street     McDowell Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McDowell Street
Beech Street     Mason Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Mason Street
Beech Street     May Street       Northbound on May 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Beech Street     Ranch Road       Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ranch Road
Beech Street     Woodlawn Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodlawn Avenue
                                  Eastbound on
                                  Beech Street;
                                  north/southbound
Beech Street     29th Street      on 29th Street    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  right turn lane
                                  from Beech to
                                  29th Street
Berry Street     Slem Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Slem Street
Bill Street      State Street     Eastbound on Bill 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Belmont Street   Cactus Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cactus Street
Belmont Street   Cemetery         Eastbound out of  169-1995  12-21-1995
                 entrance         cemetery
Belmont Street   Geiger Lane      Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Geiger Lane
Belmont Street   Hart Street      Westbound on Hart 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Belmont Street   Jones Avenue     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Jones Avenue
Belmont Street   Logan Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Logan Street
Belmont Street   Miller Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Miller Street
Belmont Street   Poplar Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Poplar Street
Belmont Street   Putnam Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Putnam Street
Belmont Street   Ray Street       Westbound on Ray  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Belmont Street   Simpson Road     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Simpson Road
Belmont Street   Skidmore Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Skidmore Street
Belmont Street   Walters Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Walters Street
Belmont Street   Weis Street      Eastbound on Weis 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Beverly          Coburn Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         Coburn Avenue
Beverly          Creston Place    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         Creston Place
                                  East/westbound on
Beverly          Englewood Drive  Englewood; north/ 169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         southbound on
                                  Beverly Boulevard
Beverly          The Oaks Drive   Southbound on The 169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         Oaks Drive
Birch Street     Cheer Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cheer Street
Birnamwood Drive Boy Scout Road   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Birnamwood Drive
Blackburn Avenue Ackley Avenue    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ackley Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Adams Avenue     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Adams Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Arthur Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Arthur Street
                                  East/westbound on
Blackburn Avenue Belmont Street   Blackburn Avenue; 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound on
                                  Belmont Street
Blackburn Avenue Boone Street     North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Boone Street
Blackburn Avenue Central Parkway  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Parkway
Blackburn Avenue Chinn Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chinn Street
Blackburn Avenue Clinton Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Clinton Street
Blackburn Avenue Coburn Avenue    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Coburn Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Crawford Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crawford Street
Blackburn Avenue Crest Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crest Street
Blackburn Avenue Crooks Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crooks Street
Blackburn Avenue Dawes Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dawes Street
                                  Northbound on
Blackburn Avenue Deadman s Curve  both east and     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  west sides of
                                  Deadman s Curve
                                  East/westbound on
Blackburn Avenue Division Street  Blackburn Avenue; 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  northbound on
                                  Division Street
Blackburn Avenue East Ferguson    Eastbound on East 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           Ferguson Street
Blackburn Avenue Dixon Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dixon Street
                 East Jepson      Southbound on
Blackburn Avenue Street           East Jepson       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Blackburn Avenue Emerson Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Emerson Street
Blackburn Avenue Epperson Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Epperson Street
Blackburn Avenue Frederick Street Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Frederick Street
Blackburn Avenue Galleher Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Galleher Drive
Blackburn Avenue Garfield Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Garfield Street
Blackburn Avenue Henderson Street Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Henderson Street
Blackburn Avenue High Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  High Street
Blackburn Avenue Hunt Street      Eastbound on Hunt 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Blackburn Avenue Highlawn Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Highlawn Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Hyman Avenue     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hyman Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Jackson Avenue   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Jackson Avenue
Blackburn Avenue James Court      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  James Court
Blackburn Avenue Kansas Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kansas Street
                                  Northbound on
Blackburn Avenue Kirk Street      Kirk Street;      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Blackburn
Blackburn Avenue Lewis Lane       Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lewis Lane
Blackburn Avenue Lincoln Avenue   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lincoln Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Linden Road      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Linden Road
Blackburn Avenue Lynn Haven Court Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lynn Haven Court
Blackburn Avenue McGurk Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McGurk Street
Blackburn Avenue Mantz Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Mantz Street
Blackburn Avenue Margarette       Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           Margarette Street
Blackburn Avenue Monroe Avenue    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Monroe Avenue
Blackburn Avenue North Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  North Street
Blackburn Avenue Oakview Road     East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Oakview Road
Blackburn Avenue Patton Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Patton Street
Blackburn Avenue Plum Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Plum Street
Blackburn Avenue Pollard Road     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Pollard Road
Blackburn Avenue Riggle Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Riggle Street
Blackburn Avenue Roberts Drive    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Roberts Drive
Blackburn Avenue Roosevelt Avenue Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Roosevelt Avenue
                                  Northbound on
                                  Blackburn Avenue;
Blackburn Avenue Russell Street   eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Blackburn Avenue;
                                  westbound on
                                  Russell Street
Blackburn Avenue Sanders Road     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sanders Road
Blackburn Avenue Smith Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Smith Street
                 South Belmont    Northbound on
Blackburn Avenue Street           South Belmont     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Blackburn Avenue Stephens Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Stephens Street
Blackburn Avenue Summitt Street   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Summitt Street
                                  Eastbound on
                                  Blackburn Avenue;
                 Terrace          northbound on
Blackburn Avenue Boulevard        Terrace           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Boulevard;
                                  westbound on
                                  Blackburn Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Thomas Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Thomas Street
                 Walters Hill     Southbound on
Blackburn Avenue Drive            Walters Hill      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive
                 West Euclid      Northbound on
Blackburn Avenue Avenue           West Euclid       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
Blackburn Avenue Winchester       Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Blackburn Avenue
                 West Jepson      Southbound on
Blackburn Avenue Street           West Jepson       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Two signs
Blackburn Avenue 6th Street       southbound on 6th 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Blackburn Avenue 29th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Blackburn Avenue
Blazer Boulevard Floyd Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Blazer Boulevard
Blazer Boulevard Woodlawn Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodlawn Avenue
Blevins Street   Roberts Drive    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Blevins Street
Boy Scout Road   Friel Court      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Friel Court
Boy Scout Road   Greenbrier Road  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Greenbrier Road
Boy Scout Road   Greenfield Road  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Greenfield Road
Boy Scout Road   Garver Road      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Garver Road
Boy Scout Road   Hogsten Drive    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hogsten Drive
Boy Scout Road   Leighwood Drive  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Leighwood Drive
Boy Scout Road   Skyline Drive    North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Skyline Drive
Boy Scout Road   Terrace          Westbound on Boy  169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Boulevard        Scout Road
Boy Scout Road   Wildwood Drive   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Wildwood Drive
                                  Northbound on
Bradley Drive    Bradley Drive    Bradley Drive;    169-1995; 12-21-1995;
                                  southbound on     99-2013   9-26-2013
                                  Bradley Drive
Bradley Drive    Gartin Avenue    Crum Street with  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartin Avenue
Bradley Drive    Grandview Drive  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Grandview Avenue
Bradley Street   Chinn Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bradley Street
Bradley Street   Crawford Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bradley Street
Brenda Drive     Mindy Jane Drive Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Brenda Drive
Brenda Street    Renfroe Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Brenda Drive
Brenda Drive,    Sherwood Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
east                              Brenda Drive
Brenda Drive,    Sherwood Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
west                              Brenda Drive
Brenda Street    Renfroe Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Brenda Street
Broad Street     Cleveland Street Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cleveland Street
Broad Street     Eltura Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Broad Street
                                  East/westbound on
Broad Street     Main Street      Main Street;      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  North/southbound
                                  on Broad Street
Broom Street     Central Avenue   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Avenue
Broom Street     Mill Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Broom Street
Bruce Drive      Cumberland       Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bruce Drive
Bruce Drive      Elliot Avenue    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Elliot Avenue
Bruce Drive      Lawrence Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lawrence Street
Cabell Street    Summitt Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cabell Street
Cabell Street    Virgin Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cabell Street
Calvin Street    Highland Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Calvin Street
                                  Westbound
                                  traffic,
Campbell Street  Charles Street   northwest corner  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  of Campbell
                                  Street
Canterbury Court Sherwood Drive   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Canterbury Court
Cantrell Street  Douglas Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cantrell Street
Cantrell Street  Slem Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cantrell Street
Carl Perkins     180 feet from    East/westbound on
Drive            intersection     Carl Perkins      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 with 6th Street  Drive
Carolyn Street   Lorraine Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lorraine Street
Carolyn Street   Robin Lynn Drive Southbound on     108-2009  8-20-2009
                                  Carolyn Street
Carr Street      Maxwell Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Carr Street
Carroll Street   Dawes Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Carroll Street
Carroll Street   McGurk Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Carroll Street
Carter Avenue    Ringo Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ringo Street
                                  Westbound 700
Carter Avenue    7th Street       block of Carter   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 8th
Carter Avenue    8th Street       Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 8th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
Carter Avenue    10th Street      block with Carter 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
                                  Southbound 300
Carter Avenue    11th Street      block with Carter 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 19th
Carter Avenue    19th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 19th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 20th
Carter Avenue    20th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 20th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 21st
Carter Avenue    21st Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 21st
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 23rd
Carter Avenue    23rd Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 23rd
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 24th
Carter Avenue    24th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 24th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 25th
Carter Avenue    25th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 25th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
Carter Avenue    27th Street      block of 27th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 28th
Carter Avenue    28th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 28th
                                  Street
                                  East/westbound on
Carter Avenue    29th Street      Carter at 29th    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 30th
Carter Avenue    30th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 30th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 300
                                  block of 31st
Carter Avenue    31st Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northbound 400
                                  block of 31st
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 3169
Carter Avenue    32nd Street      block of Carter   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
Cedar Street     Hinton Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cedar Street
Central Avenue   Deal Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Deal Street
                                  Northbound 500
Central Avenue   8th Street       block of 8th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 500
Central Avenue   10th Street      block of 10th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 500
Central Avenue   11th Street      block of 11th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 400
Central Avenue   14th Street      block of 14th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Two stop signs
Central Avenue   18th Street      southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  18th Street at
                                  Central Avenue
                                  Southbound on
Central Avenue   19th Street      19th Street at    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Avenue
Central Avenue   20th Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  20th Street
Central Avenue   21st Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  21st Street
Central Avenue   23rd Street      North/Southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 23rd Street
                                  Eastbound/        78, 2021  6-11-2021
Central Avenue   23rd Street      westbound on      39, 2025  4-1-2025
                                  Central Avenue
                                  Northbound at
                                  exit of UK King s
Central Avenue   23rd Street      Daughters parking 39, 2025  4-1-2025
                                  lot onto Central
                                  Avenue
Central Avenue   24th Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 24th Street
                                  Eastbound/        64, 2023  5-26-2023
Central Avenue   24th Street      westbound on      39, 2025  4-1-2025
                                  Central Avenue
                                  Eastbound on
Central Avenue   25th Street      Central Avenue    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  with 25th Street
                                  East/westbound on
Central Avenue   30th Street      Central Avenue;   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on 30th Street
                                  East/westbound on
Central Avenue   31st Street      Central Avenue;   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on 31st Street
                                  East/westbound on
Central Avenue   32nd Street      Central Avenue;   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on 32nd Street
                 33rd Street      Northbound on
Central Avenue   (Deal Street on  32nd Street       169-1995  12-21-1995
                 city map)
Central Parkway  Hager Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hager Street
                                  North/southbound
                                  on Central
Central Parkway  Kentucky Avenue  Parkway; east/    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Kentucky Avenue
                                  Southbound
Charles Street   Willis Street    traffic, south    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  end of Charles
                                  Street
Chatteroi Street Central Avenue   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chatteroi Street
Cherry Street    Jenkins Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cherry Street
Cherrywood Court Locust Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cherrywood Court
Chestnut Court   Chestnut Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chestnut Court
Chestnut Drive   Hilton Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chestnut Drive
Chestnut Drive   Prospect         Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chestnut Drive
Chinn Street     Hoover Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hoover Street
Chinn Street     Kincaid Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kincaid Street
Christy Street   Randy Drive      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Randy Drive
Christy Street   Robin Lynn Drive Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Christy Street
Clara Street     Lucille Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Clara Street
Clark Street     Hackworth Street Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hackworth Street
Clark Street     Hampton Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hampton Street
Clark Street     Newman Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Newman Street
Clements Drive   Hickman Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hickman Street
Cleveland Street Sellers Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sellars Street
Coburn Avenue    Maryland Parkway Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maryland Parkway
                                  East/westbound on
Coburn Avenue    Wurts Avenue     Wurts Avenue;     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Coburn Avenue
Cogan Street     Edgewood Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Edgewood Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
Cogan Street     Highland Avenue  Highland Avenue;  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/ southbound
                                  on Cogan Street
Cogan Street     Norwood Avenue   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Norwood Avenue
Colony Pointe    Skyline Drive    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Colony Pointe
                                  East/westbound on
Condit Street    State Street     Condit Street;    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on State Street
Court Street     Southview Drive  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Court Street
Craft Street     Harrison Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Harrison Street
Crawford Street  Hoover Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hoover Street
Crawford Street  Kincaid Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kincaid Street
Crescent Street  Simpson Road     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crescent Street
Creston Place    Fairfax Drive    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Creston Place
                                  East/westbound on
Crooks Street    Hackworth Street Hackworth Street; 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/ southbound
                                  on Crooks Street
Crooks Street    Hampton Street   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Crooks Street
                                  East/westbound on
Crooks Street    Main Street      Main Street;      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Crooks Street
                                  East/westbound on
Crooks Street    Moore Street     Moore Street;     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Crooks Street
                                  Eastbound on
Crooks Street    Payne Alley      Payne Alley at    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crooks Street
                                  East/westbound on
Crooks Street    Holt Street      Holt Street;      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Crooks Street
Crooks Street    Payne Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Payne Street
Crum Street      Gartin Avenue    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crum Street
Crum Street      Grandview Drive  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crum Street
                                  Northbound on
Crum Street      Southview Road   Crum Street;      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Southbound on
                                  Crum Street
                                  North/southbound
Cumberland                        on Cumberland
Avenue           Kentucky Avenue  Avenue; east/     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Kentucky Avenue
Cumberland       Virginia Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            Virginia Avenue
Cumberland                        North/southbound
Avenue           Hager Avenue     on Cumberland     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
Cypress Street   Harlan Street    North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Harlan Street
Dale Street      High Street      Eastbound on Dale 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Dale Street      Smith Street     East/westbound on 169       2-26-1991
                                  Dale Street
Dale Street      Thomas Street    Westbound on Dale 169       2-26-1991
                                  Street
Daniels Street   Ferguson Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ferguson Street
Daniels Street   Hunt Street      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Daniels Street
Daphne Street    Jewell Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Daphne Street
Dawes Street     Elm Street       Westbound on Elm  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Dawes Street     Harrod Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Harrod Street
Dawes Street     Joel Street      Westbound on Joel 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Debord Hill      Reeves Boulevard Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Reeves Boulevard
Delaware Street  Beckett Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Beckett Street
Delaware Street  Glenn Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Glenn Street
                                  North/southbound
Delaware Street  Pierce Street    on Pierce Street; 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Delaware Street
Devore Street    Jackson Avenue   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Devore Street
Devore Street    Monroe Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Devore Street
Diniaco Drive    Russell Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Diniaco Drive
                                  North/southbound
                                  on Division
Division Street  Grandview Drive  Street; east/     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Grandview Drive
Division Street  Gartin Avenue    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartin Avenue
Division Street  Ferguson Drive   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Ferguson Drive
Dixon Street     Long Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Long Street
Dixon Street     Long Street      North/southbound  8, 2020   1-24-2020
                                  on Dixon Street
Dixon Street     Old Stage Road   Eastbound on Old  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Stage Road
Donna Court      Eloise Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Eloise Street
Douglas Street   Slem Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Slem Street
Douglas Street   Tuscon Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Tuscon Street
Duke Street      Earl Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Duke Street
Dysard Hill      Prospect Avenue  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dysard Hill
Dysard Street    Prospect Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dysard Street
Dysard Street    Woodland Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dysard Street
East Street      Patton Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  East Street
East Euclid                       Northbound on
Avenue           Ridgeway Drive   East Euclid       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
                                  Northbound on
East Grove                        east side of East
Street           Ferguson Drive   Grove Street exit 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  with Ferguson
                                  Drive
East Jepson                       Eastbound from
Street           Jepson Street    deadend of Jepson 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
East Ridge       Sherwood Drive   Westbound on East 169-1995  12-21-1995
Street                            Ridge Street
                                  Westbound on
                                  Edgewood Avenue;
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Lucille
Edgewood Avenue  Lucille Street   Street; east on   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Morgan Avenue
                                  with Lucille
                                  Street to make a
                                  four-way stop
Edgewood Avenue  Madge Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Madge Street
Edgewood Avenue  Morgan Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Morgan Avenue
Elam Street      Moore Avenue     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Elam Street
Elk Street       Kirk Street      Westbound on Elk  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Elliott Street   Floyd Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Floyd Street
Elmwood Avenue   Woodland Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Elmwood Avenue
Elton Avenue     Patricia Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Elton Avenue
Eltura Street    Liberty Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Eltura Street
Emery Street     Eden Place       Westbound on Eden 149       11-8-2001
                                  Place
Englewood Avenue Fairfax Drive    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Fairfax Drive
Englewood Avenue Morningside      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Englewood Avenue
Ernestine Street Lucille Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ernestine Street
Ester Street     Cypress Street   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Ester Street
Ester Street     Ramey Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ramey Street
Euclid Avenue    Ridgeway Drive   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Euclid Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
Evans Street     Jackson Avenue   Evans Street;     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Jackson Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
Evans Street     Monroe Street    Evans Street;     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  north/southbound
                                  on Monroe Street
Fair Franz Drive Lexington Avenue Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Fair Franz Drive
Ferguson Drive   South Belmont    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ferguson Drive
                                  Northbound on
                 West Grove       West Grove        169-1995; 12-21-1995;
Ferguson Drive   Street           Street;           26-2013   2-21-2013
                                  Southbound on
                                  Grove Street
Ferguson Drive   Grove Street     Westbound on      81        9-17-1998
                                  Ferguson Drive
Ferguson Street  Gibb Court       Eastbound on Gibb 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Court
Ferguson Street  Holt Street      Westbound on Holt 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Ferguson Street  Short Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Short Street
Ferry Street     Hickman Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hickman Street
Ferry Street     Pollard Road     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ferry Street
First Circle                      Northbound on
Prospect         Prospect Avenue  First Circle      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect
Fischel Street   Woodlawn Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Fischel Street
                                  North/southbound
Floyd Street     Lawrence Avenue  on Floyd Street;  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Lawrence Avenue
Floyd Street     Skyline Drive    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Floyd Street
Floyd Street     Waugh Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Waugh Street
Floyd Street     Lyons Avenue     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lyons Lane
                 Lyons Lane and   Northbound and
Floyd Street     Blazer Boulevard southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Floyd Street
Foothills Court  Skyline Drive    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Foothills Court
Ford Street      Monroe Street    Eastbound on Ford 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  One stop sign
                                  southbound on
                                  Ashland Avenue
                                  with Forest
                                  Avenue; one stop
                                  sign
                                  southwestbound on
Forest Avenue    Ashland Avenue   Forest Avenue     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  with Ashland
                                  Avenue; one stop
                                  sign southbound
                                  on Forest Avenue
                                  with Ashland
                                  Avenue and
                                  Lynnwood
                                  intersection
Forest Avenue    Ashland Avenue   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Forest Avenue
Forest Avenue    Beechwood Avenue Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Beechwood Avenue
Forest Avenue    Elmwood Avenue   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Elmwood Avenue
Forest Avenue    Forest Court     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Forest Court
Forest Avenue    Maple Avenue     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maple Avenue
Forest Avenue    Poplar Avenue    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Poplar Avenue
Forest Avenue    Oak Avenue       Westbound on Oak  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
Forest Avenue    Walnut Avenue    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Walnut Avenue
Forestview Drive Greenbriar Road  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Forestview Drive
Forgey Street    Highland Avenue  North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Forgey Street
Forgey Street    Norwood Avenue   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Forgey Street
Forgey Street    Shelby Avenue    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Forgey Street
Franklin Street  Moore Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Franklin Street
Franz Court      Lexington Avenue Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Franz Court
Friendship Road  Winslow Road     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Friendship Road
Gallerher Drive  Sherwood Drive   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gallgher Drive
Galloway Street  Slem Street      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Galloway Street
Garfield Avenue  Harrod Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Harrod Street
Garfield Avenue  Kentucky Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kentucky Avenue
Garfield Avenue  Stewart Lane     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Stewart Lane
Gartin Avenue    Division Street  East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartin Avenue
Gartin Avenue    Grove Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Grove Street
Gartin Avenue    South Belmont    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           Gartin Avenue
Gartrell Court   Chadwick Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartrell Court
Gartrell Street  Chadwick Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartrell Street
Gartrell Street  Mound Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Mound Street
                                  East/westbound on
                                  Gartrell Street
Gartrell Street  Ridgeway Avenue  at Russell Street 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  and Ridgeway
                                  Avenue
                                  Northbound on
                                  Russell Street at
                                  intersection of
Gartrell Street  Russell Street   Gartrell Street,  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Russell Street,
                                  and Ridgeway
                                  Avenue
Gartrell Street  44th Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 44th Street
Garver Road      Skyline Drive    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Garver Road
Garver Road      Vanbibber Court  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Vanbibber Court
Geiger Lane      Park Street      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Geiger Lane
Geiger Lane      Sexton Court     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sexton Court
Glenn Street     Madison Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Madison Street
Gloria Avenue    Skyline Drive    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gloria Avenue
                                  Southbound on
Grandview Drive  Grandview Drive  Grandview Drive   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  from veterinarian
                                  s office
                                  Southbound 100
Greenup Avenue   8th Street       block of 8th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 9th
Greenup Avenue   9th Street       Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 9th
                                  Street
Greenup Avenue   10th Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  10th Street
                                  Northbound on
                                  11th Street at
                                  Greenup Avenue
Greenup Avenue   11th Street      (two signs);      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound on
                                  11th Street at
                                  Greenup Avenue
Greenup Avenue   12th Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 12th Street
                                  Northbound 200
Greenup Avenue   13th Street      block of 13th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 100
                                  block of 14th
Greenup Avenue   14th Street      Street            169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  (government
                                  property)
                                  Southbound 100
Greenup Avenue   18th Street      block of 18th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 19th
Greenup Avenue   19th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 19th
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 20th
Greenup Avenue   20th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 20th
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 21st
Greenup Avenue   21st Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 21st
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 22nd
Greenup Avenue   22nd Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 22nd
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 23rd
Greenup Avenue   23rd Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 23rd
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
Greenup Avenue   25th Street      block of 25th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 28th
Greenup Avenue   28th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 28th
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 29th
Greenup Avenue   29th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 29th
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 30th
Greenup Avenue   30th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 30th
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 31st
Greenup Avenue   31st Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 31st
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 32nd
Greenup Avenue   32nd Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 32nd
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 33rd
Greenup Avenue   33rd Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 33rd
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 200
                                  block of 34th
Greenup Avenue   34th Street      Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound 100
                                  block of 34th
                                  Street
Greenway Road    South Belmont    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           Greenway Road
Greenway Road    Terrace          Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Boulevard        Greenway Road
                                  North/southbound
                                  on Griffith
Griffith Street  Main Street      Street; east/     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on Main
                                  Street
Griffith Street  Oakview Road     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Griffith Street
Griffith Street  Payne Alley      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Griffith Street
Gussler Street   Virgin Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gussler Street
                                  North/southbound
                                  on Ferguson       169-1995; 12-21-1995;
Hackworth Street Ferguson Street  Street; east/     79        6-12-1997
                                  westbound on
                                  Hackworth Street
Hager Street     Cumberland       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Hager Street
Halbert Street   Patton Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Halbert Street
Halbert Street   Sherwood Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sherwood Drive
                                  North/southbound
Hampton Street   Ferguson Street  on Ferguson       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Hampton Street   Locust Avenue    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Locust Avenue
Harlan Street    Ramey Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Harlan Street
Harrod Street    Henderson Street Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Henderson Street
Harrod Street    McGurk Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McGurk Street
Hart Street      McKnight Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McKnight Street
                                  North/southbound
                                  on Hickman
Hickman Street   Spring Street    Street; east/     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Spring Street
Hickory Ridge                     Northbound on
Drive            Oakview Road     Hickory Ridge     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive
Hickory Ridge    Raintree Court   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Drive                             Raintree Court
Hickory Ridge                     Southbound on
Drive            Mantz Street     Hickory Ridge     49-2012   6-21-2012
                                  Drive
Hickory Street   Sherwood Drive   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hickory Street
High Street      Shute Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Shute Street
Highland Avenue  Lucille Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lucille Street
Highway Street   Slem Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Slem Street
Hilton Avenue    Ireland Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ireland Street
Hilton Avenue    Prospect Avenue  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hilton Avenue
Hogsten Drive    Lowman Drive     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lowman Drive
Hogsten Drive    Rogers Drive     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Rogers Drive
Hogsten Drive    Skyline Drive    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hogsten Drive
Horne Street     Long Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Horne Street
Hunt Street      Ridgeway Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hunt Street
Hunt Street      East Ferguson    North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Hunt Street
Hunter Court     Pleasant Avenue  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hunter Court
Hurricane Road   Rockwood Road    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Rockwood Road
                 Valley View Road Northbound on
Hurricane Road   (KY St. Route    Hurricane Road    169-1995  12-21-1995
                 168)
Hyman Avenue     Maryland Parkway North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Hyman Avenue
Hyman Avenue     Morningside      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Hyman Avenue
Iroquois Avenue  Shawnee Avenue   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Shawnee Avenue
Jackson Avenue   Ridgeway Drive   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ridgeway Drive
Jackson Avenue   Woodbine Place   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodbine Place
Jewell Street    Sherwood Drive   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Jewell Street
Joel Street      McDowell Street  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McDowell Street
                                  Eastbound on
Kansas Street    Monroe Street    Kansas Street;    169-1995; 12-21-1995;
                                  north/southbound  58        6-6-1996
                                  on Monroe Street
Kemp Street      Smith Street     Eastbound on Kemp 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Kentucky Avenue  Lincoln Avenue   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Lincoln Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
                                  Kentucky Avenue;
Kentucky Avenue  Roosevelt Avenue north/ southbond  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Roosevelt
                                  Avenue
Kentucky Avenue  Virginia Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Virginia Avenue
Kilgore Drive    Reeves Boulevard Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kilgore Drive
Kirk Street      Maynard Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maynard Street
Kimberly Court   Robin Lynn Drive Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kimberly Court
Lawrence Avenue  Ranch Road       Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lawrence Avenue
Lexington Avenue Alexander Court  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Alexander Court
Lexington Avenue Prospect Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect Avenue
Lexington Avenue Rogers Court     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Rogers Court
Lexington Avenue Windsor Court    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Windsor Court
                                  Southbound 700
Lexington Avenue 14th Street      block of 14th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 700
Lexington Avenue 16th Street      and southbound    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  800 of 16th
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 800
Lexington Avenue 18th Street      block of 18th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 800
Lexington Avenue 19th Street      block of 19th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 800
Lexington Avenue 20th Street      block of 20th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 800
Lexington Avenue 21st Street      block of 21st     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 700
Lexington Avenue 23rd Street      block of 23rd     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Northbound 800
Lexington Avenue 24th Street      block of 24th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 700
Lexington Avenue 26th Street      block of 26th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 700
Lexington Avenue 27th Street      block of 27th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Locust Avenue    Woodland Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Locust Avenue
Lotus Avenue     Williams Avenue  Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lotus Avenue
Lucille Street   McCullough       Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           McCullough Street
Lulu Street      Roberts Drive    Westbound on Lulu 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
McClelland       Lyons Lane       Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Street                            Lyons Lane
McGuire Street   Blackburn Avenue Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McGuire Street
McKnight Street  Bay Street       Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McKnight Street
McKnipp Street   Skyline Drive    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McKnipp Street
Maid Marion      Robin Hood Drive Eastbound on Maid 169-1995  12-21-1995
Court                             Marion Court
Main Street      Sellars Street   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sellars Street
Mantz Street     Hickory Ridge    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Mantz Street
Maryland Parkway Hyman Avenue     East/westbound on 167-2005  11-3-2005
                                  Maryland Parkway
Mason Street     Nolte Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Mason Street
Maxwell Avenue   Old 13th Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maxwell Avenue
Maxwell Avenue   Bruce Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maxwell Avenue
May Court        Montgomery       Westbound on May  169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Court
Mindy Jane Drive Valley View      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Mindy Jane Drive
Monroe Street    Prichard Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Monroe Street
                                  North/southbound
Montague Street  Monroe Street    on Monroe Street; 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Montague Street
Montgomery       14th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            Montgomery Avenue
Montgomery       15th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            Montgomery Avenue
Montgomery       16th Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            Montgomery Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
                                  Montgomery
                                  Avenue;
Montgomery       23rd Street      northbound 600    169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            block of 23rd
                                  Street; south
                                  bound 700 block
                                  of 23rd Street
                                  East/westbound on
                                  Montgomery
                                  Avenue;
Montgomery       24th Street      northbound 1600   169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            block of 24th
                                  Street; south
                                  bound 200 block
                                  of 24th Street
                                  East/westbound on
Montgomery                        Montgomery
Avenue           25th Street      Avenue; North/    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound on
                                  25th Street
                                  Southbound on
Moore Street     Ashland Avenue   Ashland Avenue;   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Moore Street
Moore Street     Crooks Street    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Moore Street
Moore Street     Elam Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Elam Street
Moore Street     Lydia Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lydia Street
                                  Westbound on
Moore Street     Oakview Road     Oakview Road;     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound on
                                  Moore Street
Moore Street     Sellars Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sellars Street
Moore Street     Thomas Street    Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Thomas Street
                 Wilshire         Southbound on
Moore Street     Boulevard        Wilshire          169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Boulevard
Morgan Avenue    Patricia Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Patricia Street
Muncy Street     Williams Avenue  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Williams Avenue
Nancy Court      Russell Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Nancy Court
Nervie Street    Jones Street     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Nervie Street
                                  East/westbound on
                                  Newman Street;
Newman Street    Ferguson Street  north/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Ferguson
                                  Street
Newman Street    Park Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Park Street
Nichols Place    Sword Street     East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sword Street
Nolte Street     Willis Avenue    North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Willis Avenue
Northview Road   Sherwood Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Northview Road
Northview Road   Southview Road   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Southview Road
Nottingham Court Royale Court     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Royale Court
Nottingham Court Sherwood Drive   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Nottingham Court
Oaklawn Court    Oakview Road     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Oaklawn Court
Oakview Road     Crooks Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Crooks Street
Oakview Road     Griffith Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Griffith Street
                 Hickory Ridge    Northbound on
Oakview Road     Drive            Hickory Ridge     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive
Oakview Road     Hood Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hood Street
                                  Westbound on
                                  Moore Street and
                                  Oakview Road;
                                  northbound on
Oakview Road     Moore Street     Ramey Street with 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Oakview Road;
                                  southwest corner
                                  of Oakview Road
                                  at Ramey Street
Oakview Road     Ramey Street     Eastbound on      139       12-19-1989
                                  Oakview Road
Oakview Road     Sellars Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sellars Street
Oakview Road     Woodland Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodland Avenue
Old Orchard      Peachtree Road   Eastbound on Old  169-1995  12-21-1995
Drive                             Orchard Drive
Old Orchard      South Belmont    Eastbound on Old
Drive            Street (KY St.   Orchard Drive     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Route 168)
Old Orchard      Terrace          Westbound on Old  169-1995  12-21-1995
Drive            Boulevard        Orchard Drive
Olympic Drive    Roberts Drive    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Olympic Drive
                                  Westbound on
                                  Beech Street;
Old 13th Street  Beech Street     northbound and    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound on Old
                                  13th Street
Old 13th Street  Stella Drive     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Stella Drive
Old 13th Street, 13th Street      Westbound on Old  169-1995  12-21-1995
(north)                           13th Street
Old 13th Street, 13th Street      Westbound on Old  169-1995  12-21-1995
(south)                           13th Street
Old 13th Street, 13th Street,     Eastbound on Old
(north)          front of Stella  13th Street       169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive
Old 13th Street, 13th Street,     Eastbound on Old
(south)          front of Stella  13th Street       169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive
                                  North/southbound
Park Street      Short Street     on Park Street;   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Short Street
Payne Alley      Sellars Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Payne Alley
Peachtree Road   South Belmont    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street           Peachtree Road
Peachtree Road   Valley Drive     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Peachtree Road
Peacock Road     Ridgeway Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Peacock Road
Phelps Street    Wurts Avenue     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Wurts Avenue
                                  Southbound on
                                  Clements Drive
Pierce Street    Clements Drive   with Pierce       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street and
                                  Hickman Street
                 Clements Drive,
Pierce Street    Hickman Street,  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Hatcher School   Pierce Street
                 parking lot
                 Hatcher School   Southbound off
Pierce Street    parking lot      Hatcher School    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  parking lot
                                  Northbound on
                                  Hickman Street
Pierce Street    Hickman Street   with Clements     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive and Pierce
                                  Street
Pierce Street    Pollard Road     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Pierce Street
Pike Street      Woodlawn Avenue  Eastbound on Pike 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Pine Haven Drive State Street     North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on State Street
Pine Tree Court  Terrace          Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Boulevard        Pine Tree Court
Pollard Road     Craft Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Craft Street
Pollard Road     Dixon Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Dixon Street
Pollard Road     Ferry Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ferry Street
Pollard Road     Long Street      Westbound on Long 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Pollard Road     Marcia Street    Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Marcia Street
Pollard Road     Spring Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Spring Street
Poplar Avenue    Woodland Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Poplar Avenue
Powell Street    Simpson Road     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Powell Street
Powers Road      Shadowlawn Drive Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Powers Road
Powers Road      Sherwood Drive   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Powers Road
                                  Eastbound with
Prospect Avenue  Chestnut Drive   Prospect Avenue   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  (Chestnut Drive
                                  north and south)
                 Chestnut Hill    Northbound on
Prospect Avenue  Drive            Chestnut Hill     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive
                 First Circle     Northbound on
Prospect Avenue  Prospect         First Circle      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect
Prospect Avenue  Hilton Avenue    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hilton Avenue
Prospect Avenue  Prospect Place   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect Place
                 Second Circle    Northbound on
Prospect Avenue  Prospect         Second Circle     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect
                 Third Circle     Northbound on
Prospect Avenue  Prospect         Third Circle      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect
Putnam Street    Belmont Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Putnam Street
Ranch Road       Ranch Road Court Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ranch Road Court
Richardson Road  Russell Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Richardson Road
Ridgeway Avenue  Gartrell Street  Northbound on     19        2-26-1991
                                  Ridgeway Avenue
Ridgeway Drive   Terrace          Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Boulevard        Ridgeway Drive
                                  Westbound on
                                  Winslow Road;
                                  northbound on
                                  Roberts Drive
Roberts Drive    Winslow Road     with Winslow      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Road; southbound
                                  on county
                                  property with
                                  Winslow Road
Rogers Drive     Skyline Drive    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Rogers Drive
Roosevelt Avenue Stewart Lane     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Roosevelt Avenue
                 North side of    Eastbound on
Russell Street   Charles Russell  north side of     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 School           Charles Russell
                                  School
Russell Street   Sharon Road      Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sharon Road
Sammons Road     Sherwood Drive   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sammons Road
Sellars Street   Sparks Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sparks Street
Shadowlawn Drive Valley View      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Shadowlawn Drive
Sharon Court     Sharon Road      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Sharon Court
Sherwood Drive   Tackett Drive    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Tackett Drive
                 Will Scarlett    Northbound on
Sherwood Drive   Court            Will Scarlett     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Court
Shute Street     Smith Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Smith Street
Shute Street     Thomas Street    North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on Thomas Street
Skidmore Street  Summitt Street   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Summitt Street
Skidmore Street  Virgin Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Skidmore Street
Skyline Drive    Stephens Court   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Stephens Court
                                  Southbound on
                                  South Belmont
South Belmont    Terrace          Street;
Street           Boulevard        northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Terrace Lane;
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Terrace Boulevard
                                  Southbound on
South Belmont                     South Belmont
Street           Terrace Lane     Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  northbound on
                                  Terrace Lane
South Belmont    Thornwell Road   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Street                            Thornwell Road
South Belmont    Valley View      Northbound on
Street           Drive            South Belmont     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
South Belmont    West Grove       Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Street           Street           West Grove Street
Southveiw Road   Southview Road   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 (east side)      Southview Road
State Street     Pinehaven Drive  North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on State Street
Stephens Street  York Street      Westbound on York 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Summitt Street   Cabell Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cabell Street
Summitt Street   Gartin Avenue    Southbound on     73        8-20-1998
                                  Summitt Street
Summitt Street   Vernon Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Vernon Street
Tanglewood Drive Wildwood Drive   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Tanglewood Drive
Terrace          Terrace Lane     East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         Terrace Boulevard
Terrace          Valley Drive     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         Valley Drive
Terrace          Wyndham Court    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Boulevard                         Wyndham Court
Thornwell Road   Valley Drive     Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Thornwell Road
U.S. 23          Exit Roadway/Air Eastbound on Exit 113-2007  9-20-2007
                 Products         Road
U.S. 60, 13th    Center Road;     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
Street           Shannon Drive    Shannon Drive
U.S. 60, 13th    North Shannon    Westbound on
Street           Drive            North Shannon     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive
U.S. 60, 13th    South Shannon    Westbound on
Street           Drive            South Shannon     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Drive
Virgin Street    Blackburn Avenue Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Virgin Street
Wade Street      Turner Street    Northbound on     134-2006  9-21-2006
                                  Wade Street
Walters Hill                      Westbound on
Drive            Crest Street     Walters Hill      134-2006  9-21-2006
                                  Drive
West Euclid      Ridgeway Drive   North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on West Euclid
Winchester                        Northbound on
Avenue (3500     Chatteroi Street Chatteroi Street  169-1995  12-21-1995
block)
Winchester                        Southbound 200
Avenue           4th Street       block of 4th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Edge of viaduct
Winchester       Viaduct          where eastbound   169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            traffic enters
                                  U.S. 23
                                  Southbound from
Winchester                        Lumber Company;   169-1995; 12-21-1995;
Avenue (3600     Lumber Company   Westbound from    98-2011   8-18-2011
block)                            37th Street Pump
                                  Station
Winchester                        Southbound 200
Avenue           5th Street       block of 5th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Winchester                        Southbound 200
Avenue           6th Street       block of 6th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
Winchester                        Northbound 300
Avenue           7th Street       block of 7th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 200
Winchester                        block and
Avenue           8th Street       northbound 300    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of 8th
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 200
Winchester                        block and
Avenue           9th Street       northbound 300    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of 9th
                                  Street
Winchester                        Northbound 300
Avenue           11th Street      block of 11th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 200
Winchester                        block and
Avenue           19th Street      northbound 300    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of 19th
                                  Street
Winchester       21st Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            on 21st Street
Winchester       23rd Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            on 23rd Street
Winchester       24th Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            24th Street
Winchester       27th Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            27th Street
Winchester       28th Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            on 28th Street
Winchester       30th Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            on 30th Street
Winchester       31st Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            on 31st Street
Winchester       32nd Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            on 32nd Street
Winchester       34th Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            34th Street
Winchester       35th Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            35th Street
Winchester       38th Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            38th Street
Winchester       39th Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            39th Street
Winchester                        Northbound from
Avenue           40th Street      Ashland Water     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Works entrance
Winchester       41st Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            41st Street
Winchester       43rd Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            43rd Street
Winchester       44th Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            44th Street
                                  Northbound on
Winchester       45th Street      Blackburn Avenue  169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            (formerly Old
                                  45th Street)
                                  Northbound on
Winchester       46th Street      Chestnut Avenue   169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            (has been called
                                  46th Street)
Winchester       47th Street      Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            47th Street
Winchester       49th Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            49th Street
Winchester       52nd Street      Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
Avenue                            52nd Street
                                  At Carter Avenue
Woodbrook        Boy Scout Road   eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodbrook
                 Third Circle     Southbound on
Woodland Avenue  Prospect         Third Circle      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prospect
                 Wilshire         Northbound on
Woodland Avenue  Boulevard        Wilshire          169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Boulevard
Woodland Avenue  Woodland Court   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Woodland Court
Wurts Avenue     Ackley Avenue    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Wurts Avenue
Wurts Avenue     Hyman Avenue     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Wurts Avenue
6th Street       Barber Road      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Barber Road
6th Street       Blackburn Avenue Southbound on 6th 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
6th Street       Carl Perkins     Eastbound on Carl 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Perkins Drive
                 Carl Perkins     North\southbound
6th Street       Drive (Ferry     on 6th Street     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Street)
6th Street       Central Avenue   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Avenue
6th Street       Clements Drive   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Clements Drive
6th Street       Eloise Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Eloise Street
6th Street       Ferguson Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ferguson Street
6th Street       Ferry Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Ferry Street
6th Street       Harrison Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Harrison Street
6th Street       Hinton Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hinton Street
6th Street       Jenkins Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Jenkins Street
6th Street       Long Street      Westbound on Long 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
7th Street       Carter Avenue    Southbound on 7th 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
7th Street       The floodwall    North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 7th Street
                                  Northbound 600
8th Street       Bath Avenue      block of 8th      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
8th Street       Old Greenup      Southbound on 8th 14-2007   3-1-2007
                 Avenue           Street
                                  Eastbound 800
9th Street       Bath Avenue      block of Bath     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
                                  Two signs
                                  northbound at 700
                 Montgomery       block of 9th
9th Street       Avenue           Street;           169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  northbound 800
                                  block of 9th
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 900
                                  block of
10th Street      Montgomery       Montgomery;       169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           northbound off
                                  Midtown Shopping
                                  Center
12th Street      Mayo Plaza       Westbound on Mayo 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Plaza
13th Street      Bath Avenue      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
13th Street      Beverly          Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Boulevard        Beverly Boulevard
13th Street      Boy Scout Road   Westbound on Boy  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Scout Road
13th Street      Bryan Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bryan Street
13th Street      Cantrell Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cantrell Street
                                  Westbound, north
13th Street      Central Parkway  and south end on  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Parkway
13th Street      Cherokee Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cherokee Avenue
13th Street      Cumberland       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Cumberland Avenue
13th Street      Cypress Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Cypress Street
13th Street      Douglas Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Douglas Street
13th Street      Kentucky Avenue  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kentucky Avenue
13th Street      Long Street      Eastbound on Long 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
13th Street      McCullough Drive Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McCullough Drive
13th Street      McKinley Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  McKinley Street
                                  Westbound, north
13th Street      Maryland Court   and south end on  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maryland Court
13th Street      Maryland Parkway Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maryland Parkway
                                  Westbound on
13th Street      Maxwell Street   Maxwell Street at 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Old 13th Street
13th Street      May Street       Westbound on May  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
13th Street      Mayo Plaza       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Mayo Plaza
13th Street      Moegling Drive   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Moegling Drive
13th Street      Montgomery       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
13th Street      Morningside      Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Drive            Morningside Drive
13th Street      Palmer Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Palmer Street
13th Street      Raybourne Road   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Raybourne Road
13th Street      Shannon Drive    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 (middle)         Shannon Drive
13th Street      Shelby Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Shelby Avenue
13th Street      State Garage     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Highway Street
13th Street      State hospital   Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lansdowne Drive
13th Street      Turner Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Turner Street
13th Street      Wade Street      Eastbound on Wade 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
13th Street      Winslow Road     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Winslow Road
13th Street      York Street      Eastbound on York 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 1300
                                  block and
14th Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 1400    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
14th Street      Bath Avenue      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
14th Street      Greenup Avenue   Northbound        8, 2024   1-25-2024
14th Street      Montgomery       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
15th Street      Bath Avenue      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
                                  Eastbound 1400
                                  block and
15th Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 1500    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
15th Street      Montgomery       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
                                  East/westbound on
15th Street      Floodwall Alley  Floodwall Alley   129       9-18-1997
                                  southbound on
                                  15th Street
16th Street      Bath Avenue      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
                                  Southbound 800
16th Street      Hilton Avenue    block of 16th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 1500
                                  block and
16th Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 1600    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
16th Street      Montgomery       East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
                                  Eastbound on Bath
                                  Avenue northeast
                                  corner of 17th    169-1995; 12-21-1995;
17th Street      Bath Avenue      Street at the     78        6-15-2000
                                  exit of Crabbe
                                  Elementary School
                                  Parking Lot
                 Chattin Drive    Westbound out of
17th Street      across from      Central Park with 169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Montgomery Ave.  17th Street
                                  Southbound 800
17th Street      Hilton Avenue    block of 17th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
17th Street      Market Street    Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Market Street
                                  Eastbound 1600
17th Street      Mayo Plaza       block of Mayo     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Plaza
17th Street      Montgomery       Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
                                  Southbound 800
                                  block of 18th
18th Street      Hilton Avenue    Street; east/     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Hilton Avenue
18th Street      Mayo Plaza       Westbound off     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Mayo Plaza
                 Central Park     Southbound out of
19th Street      Middle Road on   Central Park      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Lexington
                                  Eastbound on 19th
19th Street      Front Street     Street at         169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  floodwall
                                  Eastbound off
                                  1800 block of
19th Street      Mayo Plaza       Mayo Plaza;       169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on Mayo
                                  Plaza at 19th
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 1900
                                  block and
20th Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 1200    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
                                  Southbound 800
20th Street      Hilton Avenue    block of 20th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Southbound 800
21st Street      Hilton Avenue    block of 21st     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 2000
                                  block and
21st Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 2100    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
                                  Eastbound on
                                  Chattin Drive;
22nd Street      Bath Avenue      north/ southbound 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 22nd Street;
                                  westbound on Bath
                                  Avenue
                                  Southbound 800
22nd Street      Hilton Avenue    block of 22nd     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
22nd Street      Montgomery       Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
                                  Eastbound 2200
                                  block and
23rd Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 2300    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
                                  Southbound 800
24th Street      Hilton Avenue    block of 24th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
                                  Eastbound 2300
                                  block and
24th Street      Mayo Plaza       westbound 2400    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
25th Street      Bath Avenue      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
25th Street      Central Avenue   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Avenue
                                  Northbound/
25th Street      Central Avenue   southbound on     39, 2025  4-1-2025
                                  25th Street
                                  Southbound 2400
                                  block and
25th Street      Lexington Avenue northbound 2500   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  block of
                                  Lexington Avenue
                                  Eastbound 2400
                                  block of Mayo
25th Street      Mayo Plaza       Plaza and         68-2018   4-26-2018
                                  westbound 2500
                                  block of Mayo
                                  Plaza
                                  East/westbound on
                 Montgomery       Montgomery
25th Street      Avenue           Avenue; north/    169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  southbound on
                                  25th Street
26th Street      Montgomery       Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
                                  Southbound 700
27th Street      Lexington Avenue block of 27th     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
27th Street      Montgomery       Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
28th Street      Central Avenue   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  28th Street
28th Street      Mill Street      North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 28th Street
29th Street      Montgomery       Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
29th Street      Bath Avenue      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Bath Avenue
29th Street      Campbell Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Campbell Street
29th Street      Carter Avenue    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Carter Avenue
29th Street      Central Avenue   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Central Avenue
29th Street      Elm Street       Eastbound on Elm  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
29th Street      Evans Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Evans Street
29th Street      Ford Street      Westbound on Ford 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
29th Street      Forest Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Forest Avenue
29th Street      Franklin Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Franklin Street
29th Street      Franz Circle     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Franz Circle
29th Street      Grace Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Grace Street
29th Street      Hackworth Street East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hackworth Street
29th Street      Hampton Street   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hampton Street
29th Street      Herman Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Herman Avenue
29th Street      Hilton Avenue    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Hilton Avenue
29th Street      Holt Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Holt Street
29th Street      Joel Street      Eastbound on Joel 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
29th Street      Kansas Street    East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  29th Street
29th Street      Lynnwood Avenue  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lynnwood Avenue
29th Street      Main Street      Eastbound on Main 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
29th Street      Maple Avenue     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Maple Avenue
29th Street      Montague Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Montague Avenue
29th Street      Montgomery       Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           Montgomery Avenue
                                  North/southbound
29th Street      Nolte Street     on 29th Street;   169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  east/westbound on
                                  Nolte Street
29th Street      Oak Avenue       Eastbound on Oak  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avenue
29th Street      Payne Street     Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Payne Street
                 Poage School     Eastbound from
29th Street      entrance         entrance of Poage 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  School
29th Street      Prichard Street  East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Prichard Street
29th Street      Robin Lynn Drive Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Robin Lynn Drive
29th Street      Rogers Court     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Rogers Court
29th Street      Shute Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Shute Street
29th Street      Spring Park Road Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Spring Park Road
29th Street      Walnut Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Walnut Street
30th Street      Railroad Street  East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Railroad Street
30th Street      Railroad Street  North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 30th Street
31st Street      Railroad Street  East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Railroad Street
31st Street      Railroad Street  North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 31st Street
32nd Street      Chatteroi Street Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chatteroi Street
32nd Street      Railroad Street  Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Railroad Street
32nd Street      Railroad Street  North/southbound  169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  on 32nd Street
                                  Southbound 400
                                  block of 34th
34th Street      Central Avenue   Street; east/     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  westbound on
                                  Chatteroi Street
39th Street      Avery Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Avery Street
39th Street      Belford Street   Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Belford Street
39th Street      Belmont Street   Westbound on 39th 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
39th Street      Brown Street     Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Brown Street
39th Street      Gartrell Street  Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartrell Street
39th Street      Haywood Street   Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Haywood Street
39th Street      Kenton Street    Eastbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Kenton Street
39th Street      Miller Street    Westbound on 39th 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
39th Street      Queen Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Queen Street
39th Street      Wallace Street   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Wallace Street
                                  Southbound on
                 Washington       42nd Street on
42nd Street      Street           the north side of 78-2014   8-14-2014
                                  the CSX Railroad
                                  Crossing
43rd Street      Chadwick Street  East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Chadwick Street
43rd Street      Daniels Street   Westbound on      169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Daniels Street
43rd Street      Emery Street     Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Emery Street
43rd Street      Gartrell Street  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Gartrell Street
44th Street      Daniels Street   East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Daniels Street
47th Street      Boyd Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Boyd Street
47th Street      Clay Street      Westbound on Clay 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Street
48th Street      Boyd Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Boyd Street
48th Street      Clay Street      East/westbound on 169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  48th Street
49th Street      Williams Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  49th Street
52nd Street      Williams Avenue  Southbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  52nd Street
                 Apple Blossom    Westbound on
52nd Street      Lane             Apple Blossom     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lane
                 Apple Blossom    Eastbound on
55th Street      Lane             Apple Blossom     169-1995  12-21-1995
                                  Lane
55th Street      Winchester       Northbound on     169-1995  12-21-1995
                 Avenue           55th Street
* Sign under stop sign to the effect of 2-way stop opposite lane does not stop
 
   (B)   Portable stop signs.
Portable Stop Signs
Location Ord. Date Passed
Portable Stop Signs
Location                                                  Ord.      Date Passed
In front of Charles Russell School on Russell Street, now 169-1995  12-21-1995
at Russell Street and Diniaco Court
In front of Oakview School on Blackburn Avenue            169-1995  12-21-1995
Beside Oakview School in the 2200 and 2300 block of High  169-1995  12-21-1995
Street
In front of Poage School on South 29th Street             169-1995; 12-21-1995;
                                                          117       8-4-2005
In front of Hager School on Blackburn Avenue              169-1995  12-21-1995
Near Hager School - both directions on Central Parkway at 126       11-21-1996
its intersection with Hager Street
Near Crabble School on 17th Street at its intersection    15        2-17-2000
with Bath Ave.
In front of Rose Hill High School on Friendship Road      144       12-5-2002
At the intersection of 17th Street and Montgomery Avenue  167-2005  11-3-2005
At the rear entrance to Charles Russell Elementary School 134-2006  9-21-2006
on Russell Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. IX) Penalty, see
71.99
SCHEDULE X. TRAFFIC LIGHTS.
Intersection Signal Time Speed Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection   Signal         Time           Speed         Ord. No. Date Passed
                              7:00 a.m. to
                              9:00 a.m. and
Blackburn                     2:00 p.m. to   25 mph during
Avenue and     Yellow flasher 4:00 p.m.,     hours the     150      11-3-1983
Arthur Street  signal         Monday through signal is in
                              Friday when    operation
                              school is in
                              session
                              7:00 a.m. to
                              9:00 a.m. and
Blackburn                     2:00 p.m. to   25 mph during
Avenue and     Yellow flasher 4:00 p.m.,     hours the     150      11-3-1983
Oakview Road   signal         Monday through signal is in
                              Friday when    operation
                              school is in
                              session
                              7:00 a.m. to
Blackburn                     4:00 p.m.
Avenue and     Yellow flasher Monday through              -        - -
Central        signal         Friday when
Parkway                       school is in
                              session
               Traffic signal
               light during
               hours          7:00 a.m. to
               indicated at   9:00 a.m. and
Kansas Street  right; during  2:00 p.m. to
and 29th       other hours,   4:00 p.m.,                  145-1983 10-20-1983
Street         red flasher    Monday through
               signal on      Friday when
               Kansas Street, school is in
               yellow flasher session
               signal on 29th
               Street
9th Street and Mechanical
Carter Avenue  traffic signal                            21       3-7-1989
               light
9th Street and Mechanical
Central Avenue traffic signal                            21       3-7-1989
               light
29th Street    Mechanical
and Holt       traffic signal                            164      11-16-2000
Street         light
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. XI) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE XI. TURN ONLY LANES.
   Certain lanes in the following streets are designated turn-only lanes in the
directions indicated.
 
Street        Lane            Direction of Location         Ord. Date Passed
                              Turn
              Center westerly              Into entrance of
Carter Avenue traffic lane    Left         Post Office from 22   3-7-1989
                                           Carter Avenue
              Northbound curb              Onto Winchester
7th Street    lane            Right        Avenue from 7th  20   3-7-1989
                                           Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. XII) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE XII. THROUGH TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
 
Street         Location                                     Ord. Date Passed
Altamont Drive                                             -    - -
Carter Avenue  From 7th Street to 12th Street               -    - -
Mayo Plaza     From 12th Street to 17th Street              58   8-17-1978
Northview Road From city limits to Grandview Drive          -    - -
Packard Street From Carr Street to Reo Street               -    - -
14th Street    Between Greenup Avenue and Winchester Avenue 129  11-29-1989
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. XIII) Penalty, see
10.99
SCHEDULE XIII. QUIET ZONES.
   (A)   The following locations are hereby designated as quiet zones. The
locations shall be indicated by signs placed at a distance of 300 feet on each
street approaching the locations. It shall be the duty of persons operating
motor vehicles through the zones to travel at a reasonable rate of speed and
not to sound the horn or other warning device of the vehicle, except in an
emergency.
 
Location                              Distance; Direction Ord.     Date Passed
UK King s Daughters(between Lexington
and Bath Avenues and 22nd and 23rd    200 foot perimeter  163-2007 12-21-2007
Streets)
 
   (B)   The following activities shall be prohibited in the quiet zone:
      (1)   Persons operating motor vehicles through the quiet zones shall not
sound their horn or other warning device of the vehicle, except in the case of
an emergency. Nor shall any pedestrian encourage or cause a motor vehicle
operator to honk his or her horn for any reason other than an emergency; and
      (2)   Persons utilizing the adjacent sidewalks and public ways
surrounding KDMC shall not engage in any unreasonable or excessive noise or
activity that would in any way disturb or unduly annoy patients or interfere
with the care for and/or recovery of patients of the hospital. Nor shall any
activity interfere with the use of the sidewalks and entry ways and workings of
the hospital by patients, families and visitors to the hospital.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine not less than $50 nor more than the maximum stated amount ($250) in KRS
534.040 for a violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sch. XIV) (Ord. 163-2007, passed 12-21-2007)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Alley parking permitted
   
II.   Designated parking spaces
   
III.   Disabled parking spaces
   
IV.   Loading/unloading zones
   
V.   Parking meter zones
   
VI.   Parking prohibited at all times
   
VII.   Parking prohibited during certain hours
   
VIII.   Parking duration limited
   
IX.   Reserved parking for official city vehicles
   
X.   Resident only parking by permit
   
XI.   Parking prohibited during street sweeping schedule
SCHEDULE I. ALLEY PARKING PERMITTED.
   Subject to such exceptions as are listed in
Chapter 75, Schedule VI, parking is provided in the following alleys. The Chief
of Police is authorized and directed to take appropriate steps to enforce the
provisions of this schedule. The Director of Public Services is authorized and
directed to install appropriate signs or curb or street markings to carry the
provisions of this schedule into effect.
 
Alley             Location           Method of Parking Ord.    Date
                  From 19th Street
Alley between     to 22nd Street and
Carter Avenue and between Carter     Parallel parking  72;     6-18-1985; 8-22-
Central Avenue    Avenue and Central in the center of  82-2013 2013
(Railroad Alley)  Avenue with the    the alley
                  following noted
                  exceptions:
                  (1) Beginning at a
                  point on the north
                  side of the
                  centerline of
                  Railroad Alley 130
                  feet east from its
                  intersection with
                  the easterly line
                  of 21st Street.
                  Thence, extending
                  in an easterly
                  direction along
                  the north side of
                  the centerline of
                  Railroad Alley for
                  a distance of 66
                  feet; adjacent to
                  2124-1/2 Carter
                  Avenue
                  (2) Beginning at a
                  point on the North
                  side of the
                  centerline of
                  Railroad Alley 86
                  feet from its
                  intersection with
                  the westerly line
                  of 21st Street.
                  Thence, extending
                  in a westerly
                  direction along
                  the northerly side
                  of the centerline
                  of Railroad Alley
                  for a distance of
                  44 feet; adjacent
                  to 2032 Carter
                  Avenue
                  Two parking spaces
                  in the 2100 block
                  of Railroad Alley
                  (Mayo Plaza),
                  specifically
                  spaces #3 and #4
                  from the 22nd
                  Street end of the
                  east bound lane in
                  order to
                  facilitate ingress
                  and egress for UK
                  King s Daughters
                  ambulance service.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. I) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE II. DESIGNATED PARKING SPACES.
   The following areas shall be marked into parking spaces approximately eight
feet by 22 feet. The Director of Public Services is authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs or curb or street markings to carry the provisions of
this schedule into effect. It shall be a violation of law for any person, firm
or corporation to park any vehicle across any line or mark on the street
designating a parking space unless that vehicle is of sufficient length to
require more than one parking space.
Street Location Side Ord. Date Passed
Street            Location                           Side  Ord.     Date Passed
                  On the 2900 block at its
Hampton Street    intersection with 29th Street,     South 148      11-3-1983
                  from the designated 30-foot yellow
                  curb 30 feet from Ferguson Street
Hilton Street     From 21st Street to 24th Street    North 54       5-21-1985
Montgomery Avenue From 23rd Street to 24th Street    Both  54       5-21-1985
                  Two northern-most parking spaces
                  in the 300 block of 16th Street
16th Street *     directly in front of Congressman   West  27, 2023 3-9-2023
                  Hal Rogers office. Congressional
                  visitor parking only between 8:00
                  a.m and 5:00 p.m.
22nd Street       From Hilton Avenue to Lexington    West  54       5-21-1985
                  Avenue
23rd Street       From Hilton Avenue to Lexington    West  54       5-21-1985
                  Avenue
* (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this schedule
who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not be less
than $10
* (2)   If violation of this schedule entry results in a uniform citation being
issued, any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040
for a violation offense
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. III) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE III. DISABLED PARKING SPACES.
   Disabled parking spaces are designated at the following locations. The Chief
of Police is authorized and directed to take appropriate steps to enforce this
schedule. The Director of Public Services is authorized to cause signs to be
placed as notice that the area is reserved for parking by the disabled. When
signs are authorized and placed, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle, other
than a vehicle which is officially identified by license plate or other
official identification or distinguishing insignia as a vehicle driven by a
disabled person, to stop, stand or park within such reserved parking space.
Street Location Side Ord. Date Passed
Street                   Location                   Side  Ord.      Date Passed
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the south curbline of
                         Carter Avenue, said point
                         being 126.3 feet westerly
                         from the intersection of
                         the west curbline of 17th
Carter Avenue            Street and the south       South 112       12-3-1998
(one space)              curbline of Carter Avenue,
                         thence extending 20 feet
                         (one existing 20 ft. by 8
                         ft. parking stall)
                         westerly to a point on the
                         south curbline of Carter
                         Avenue
                         1800 block, beginning at a
                         point being 159 feet
                         easterly from the
                         intersection of the
Carter Avenue            projected eastern curbline South 40-2008   4-3-2008
                         of 18th Street and the
                         projected southern
                         curbline of Carter Avenue
                         easterly 17 feet
                         1900 block beginning at a
                         point on the southerly
                         curbline of Carter Avenue,
                         said point being 35 feet
                         northwesterly from the
                         intersection of the
                         westerly curbline of 20th
                         Street and the southerly
Carter Avenue            curbline of Carter Avenue; South 72        6-1-2000
                         thence in a northwesterly
                         direction, 38 feet to a
                         point on the southerly
                         curbline of Carter Avenue;
                         this distance is
                         established to define two
                         handicapped parking
                         stalls, 18 feet in length
                         each
                         The first parking space of
                         the 1500 block westbound
Carter Avenue            at the intersection of     North 126, 2020 8-27-2020
                         Carter Avenue and 16th
                         Street
                         Beginning at a point of
                         the southerly curbline of
                         Central Avenue, said point
                         being 27 feet from the
                         intersection on the
                         southerly curbline of
Central Avenue           Central Avenue, and the    South 53-2005   4-11-2005
                         easterly curbline of 14th
                         Street, thence extending
                         in an easterly direction
                         18 feet to a point on the
                         southerly curbline of
                         Central Avenue
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the southerly curbline of
                         Central Avenue, said point
                         being 37 feet
                         northwesterly from the
                         intersection of the
                         westerly curbline of 18th
Central Avenue (in front Street (projected) and the
of Boyd County Public    southerly curbline of           121       10-17-2002
Library)                 Central Avenue; thence in
                         a northwesterly direction,
                         44 feet to a point on the
                         southerly curbline of
                         Central Avenue; this
                         distance is established to
                         define two handicapped
                         parking stalls, 22 feet in
                         length each
                         The most westerly parking
Central Avenue           space located on the south South 106       10-16-2008
                         side of Central Avenue in
                         the 1600 Block
Korean War Veterans Way  In the first space east of
(formerly known and      17th Street directly next  South 85-2013   8-22-2013
referred to as Market    to The Daily Independent
Street)
                         Beginning at a point 24
                         feet from the northeast
Korean War Veterans Way  corner of Korean War
(formerly known and      Veterans Way at its        North 192, 2022 12-19-2022
referred to as Market    intersection with 17th
Street)                  Street and continuing in
                         an easterly direction 22
                         feet
                         2276 Winchester Avenue
                         beginning at a point on
                         the south curbline of
                         Winchester Avenue, said
                         point being 51 feet from
                         the intersection of the
Winchester Avenue        north curbline of 23rd          90-1995   7-20-1995
                         Street and the south
                         curbline of Winchester
                         Avenue, thence extending
                         20.8 ft. northwesterly to
                         a point on the south
                         curbline of Winchester
                         Avenue
Winchester Avenue        2165 Winchester Avenue in       32        4-16-1991
                         front of Pathways, Inc.
                         1600 block of Winchester
                         Avenue in front of the
                         Highlands Museum beginning
                         at a point on the
                         southerly curbline of
                         Winchester Avenue, said
                         point being 166 feet
                         northwesterly from the
Winchester Avenue        intersection of the        South 141       10-19-2000
                         westerly curbline of 17th
                         Street and the southerly
                         curbline of Winchester
                         Avenue; thence in a
                         northwesterly direction 22
                         feet to a point on the
                         southernly curbline of
                         Winchester Avenue
                         Beginning at a point,
                         point being 215 feet
                         easterly from the
                         intersection of the
                         projected eastern curbline
Winchester Avenue        of 21st Street and the     South 35-2008   4-3-2008
                         projected southern
                         curbline of Winchester
                         Avenue; thence with the
                         southern curbline of
                         Winchester Avenue easterly
                         22 feet
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the north curb line, being
                         59 feet from the easterly
                         right-of-way of 14th
Winchester Avenue        Street; thence with the         22-2009   3-5-2009
                         northerly curb line of
                         Winchester Avenue in a
                         southeasterly direction
                         21.50 feet to a point
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the north curbline of
                         Carter Avenue, said point
                         being 21 feet from the
                         intersection of the east
                         curb line of 15th Street
                         and the north line of
                         Carter Avenue; thence with
                         the north line of Carter
                         Avenue in a southeasterly
                         direction 13.5 feet to a
Winchester Avenue        point; thence leaving said      22-2009   3-5-2009
                         curb line, at
                         approximately 60 degree
                         angle to the curb, in a
                         southerly direction 22
                         feet to a point; thence in
                         a northwesterly direction
                         13.5 feet to a point;
                         thence in a northerly
                         direction 22 feet to a
                         point and place of
                         beginning
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the east side of 15th
                         Street, being in a
                         northerly direction 17.5
                         feet from the northerly
                         curb line of Carter Avenue
                         thence in a northerly
                         direction with the curb
Winchester Avenue        line a distance of 18 feet      22-2009   3-5-2009
                         to a point; thence leaving
                         the curb line in a
                         westerly direction 8 feet
                         to a point; thence in a
                         southerly direction 18
                         feet to a point; thence in
                         an easterly direction 8
                         feet to the point of
                         beginning
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the north side of Carter
                         Avenue and being 122 feet
                         west from the northwest
                         intersection of 16th
                         Street and Carter Avenue;
Winchester Avenue        thence extending in a           22-2009   3-5-2009
                         southerly direction at an
                         angle, a distance of 21.5
                         feet from the point of
                         beginning; the handicapped
                         parking stall being west
                         of the aforementioned line
                         of 13 feet in width
                         Beginning at a point on
                         the southerly curbline of
                         Winchester Avenue, said
                         point being 20 feet
                         southeasterly from the
                         intersection of the
                         easterly curbline of 21st
Winchester Avenue        Street and the southerly   South 12-2012   2-16-2012
                         curbline of Winchester
                         Avenue; thence in a
                         southeasterly direction,
                         22 feet to a point on the
                         southerly curbline of
                         Winchester Avenue; (south
                         side, 1 space east of 21st
                         Street)
                         South side in the first
Winchester Avenue        parking space of the 1600  South 9, 2020   1-24-2020
                         block eastbound
                         100 block of 15th Street
                         adjacent to the Federal
                         Building beginning at a
                         point on the west curbline
                         of 15th Street, said point
                         being 43.4 feet from the
15th Street              intersection of the west
(two spaces)             curbline of 15th Street         131       9-18-1997
                         and the north curbline of
                         Greenup Avenue, thence
                         extending 48 feet (two 24
                         foot existing parking
                         stalls) northerly to a
                         point on the west curbline
                         of 15th Street
                         At meter No. 1509F on 15th
15th Street              Street adjacent to the          139       10-6-1994
                         Federal Building
                         On the west side of 15th
                         Street in the 200 block;
15th Street              one space north of the     West  72-2014   6-30-2014
                         east-west alley which runs
                         parallel with Greenup
                         Avenue
                         Being a parking space as
                         exists on 15th Street;
                         said parking space being
15th Street and Central  on the easterly side of         143       11-2-1995
Avenue                   15th Street and located
                         23.5 ft. south of the
                         intersection of 15th
                         Street and Central Avenue
                         On the northwest corner of
16th Street              16th Street at its              133       12-1-1987
                         intersection with
                         Winchester Avenue
                         In the 200 block; one
16th Street              space north of Winchester  West  2-2018    1-11-2018
                         Avenue (first angled
                         parking space)
                         In the 200 block; one
16th Street              space south of Greenup     East  117, 2019 8-22-2019
                         Avenue intersection (first
                         angled parking space)
                         In the 200 block of 17th
                         Street in the first space
                         beginning at the corner of
                         Korean War Veterans Way
17th Street              (formerly known and        East  85-2013   8-22-2013
                         referred to as Market
                         Street) and directly in
                         front of The Daily
                         Independent
                         On the west side of 17th
                         Street in the 200 block
17th Street              and directly in front of   West  65-2010   6-24-2010
                         the Ashland Police
                         Department at 201 17th
                         Street
                         Beginning at a point 35
                         feet from the southeast
                         corner of Winchester
17th Street              Avenue at its intersection East  94, 2022  6-9-2022
                         with 17th Street and
                         continuing in a southerly
                         direction 24 feet
                         From a point 56 feet from
18th Street              the curb insert and        West  28        4-17-1984
                         continuing 56 feet south
                         Between Central Avenue and
                         Carter Avenue, beginning
                         at a point on the west
                         side 65 feet from the
                         northerly curbline of
18th Street              Central Avenue; thence     West  75        6-25-1993
                         north with the curb line a
                         distance of 22 feet;
                         thence east 8 feet; thence
                         south 22 feet; thence west
                         8 feet
20th Street              405 20th Street at the     West  86        7-23-1991
                         American Legion Post 76
                         At the recessed curb cut
22nd Street              on the west side of the
(700 block)              700 block of 22nd Street   West  157       11-16-1995
                         near Lexington Avenue
                         (two-hour time limit)
29th Street              First space north of the   East  106-2011  9-15-2011
(2000 block)             alley
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. IV) (Ord. 55-2009, passed 5-7-09) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE IV. LOADING/UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LOADING. The act of putting cargo on or in a truck or motor vehicle, or
picking a passenger up.
      UNLOADING. The act of discharging or removing cargo from a truck or motor
vehicle, discharging a passenger from a vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to park
such vehicle in a loading zone between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on
Monday through Saturday, except for the purpose of and while in the act of
loading or unloading.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to park
such vehicle in a loading zone for a continuous period of more than 30 minutes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to park
such vehicle in a loading zone without emergency lights blinking.
   (E)   Loading zones are created as follows:
Loading Zone Location
Loading Zone                           Location
                                       In the 1500 block of Carter Avenue on
                                       the north side of the street in an
Carter Avenue - 1500 block             angled space adjacent to the entrance of
                                       Community Trust Bank parking entrance
                                       and directly in front of Speedy Signs
                                       Beginning at a point on the north
                                       curbline of Carter Avenue, said point
                                       being 127.50 feet from the intersection
                                       of the east curbline of 15th Street and
                                       the north line of Carter Avenue; thence
                                       with the north line of Carter Avenue in
                                       a southeasterly direction 14 feet to a
1501 Carter Avenue                     point; thence leaving said curbline, at
                                       approximately 60 degree angle to the
                                       curb, in a southwesterly direction 22.00
                                       feet to a point; thence in a
                                       northwesterly direction 14.00 feet to a
                                       point; thence in a northeasterly
                                       direction 22.00 feet to the point and
                                       place of beginning
                                       Beginning at a point on the northerly
                                       curbline of Central Avenue, said point
                                       being 112.5 feet from the intersection
Central Avenue                         of the westerly curbline of 18th Street
                                       and Central Avenue, thence westerly 45
                                       feet to a point on the northerly
                                       curbline of Central Avenue
                                       Southeast corner a distance of 50 feet
Greenup Avenue                         in an easterly direction from 13th
                                       Street
                                       Beginning at the northwest corner of
                                       15th Street and Greenup Avenue,
Greenup Avenue - 1600 block            measuring in a westerly direction
                                       starting at the 216 foot mark and
                                       continuing west 30 feet
                                       Beginning at a point on the northerly
                                       curbline of Winchester Avenue, said
                                       point being 147 feet from the
Winchester Avenue - 1300 block         intersection of the westerly curbline of
                                       14th Street and Winchester Avenue,
                                       thence westerly 22 feet to a point on
                                       the northerly curbline of Winchester
                                       Avenue
                                       Beginning at a point on the north
                                       curbline of Winchester Avenue, said
1401 Winchester Avenue - G.B. Johnson  point being 15.50 feet from the easterly
Building (two-car loading zone)        right-of-way of 14th Street; thence with
                                       the northerly curbline of Winchester
                                       Avenue in the southeasterly direction
                                       44.00 feet to a point
1544 Winchester Avenue                 In front
                                       In the 1600 block of Winchester Avenue
Winchester Avenue - 1600 block         on the south side of the street in
                                       spaces 2, 3 and 4 on Sundays from 7:00
                                       a.m. to 11:00 p.m.)
                                       Beginning at a point on the southerly
                                       curbline of Winchester Avenue, said
                                       point being westerly 140 feet from the
                                       intersection of the southerly curbline
Winchester Avenue - 2200 block         of Winchester Avenue and the westerly
                                       curbline of 23rd Street, thence westerly
                                       along the southerly curbline of
                                       Winchester Avenue 22 feet to a point on
                                       the southerly curbline of Winchester
                                       Avenue
                                       Beginning at a point on the easterly
                                       curbline of 8th Street, said point being
                                       southerly 160 feet from the intersection
8th Street - 300 block - east side (7: of the southerly curbline of Winchester
00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.)                  Avenue and the easterly curbline of 8th
                                       Street, thence northerly along the
                                       easterly curbline of 8th Street 80 feet
                                       to a point on the easterly curbline of
                                       8th Street
                                       Beginning at a point on the west
                                       curbline of 15th Street, said point
100 block of 15th Street adjacent to   being 91.4 feet from the intersection of
the Federal Building located at 1405   the west curbline of 15th Street and the
Greenup Avenue (two loading/unloading  north curbline of Greenup Avenue, thence
zones)                                 extending 45.4 feet (one existing 20.4
                                       foot stall and one existing 25 foot
                                       parking stall) northerly to a point on
                                       the west curbline of 15th Street
                                       Beginning at a point on the easterly
                                       curbline of 16th Street, said point
                                       being 18 feet from the intersection of
230 16th Street                        the easterly curbline of 16th Street and
                                       the southerly curbline of an alley,
                                       thence southerly 13 feet to a point on
                                       the easterly curbline of 16th Street
                                       Beginning at a point 36 feet from the
                                       curb insert and continuing in a
West side of 18th Street (two loading/ southerly direction ten feet for the
unloading zones)                       first loading zone and second such zone
                                       to begin at this point and continue ten
                                       additional feet in a southerly direction
 
   (F)   Businesses located within a one block area of the loading zone may
leave their trucks in the loading zones for periods of time as may be necessary
to serve their respective business.
   (G)   Any request for the installation of a loading/unloading zone shall be
submitted to the Transportation Task Force for recommendation to the Board of
City Commissioners.
   (H)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to take
appropriate steps to enforce the provisions of this schedule.
   (I)   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to
install appropriate signs to carry the provisions of this schedule into effect.
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this schedule
shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $250 as provided in KRS 534.040 for a violation
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. V) (Ord. 55-2009, passed 5-7-2009; Ord. 45-2010,
passed 4-15-2010; Ord. 77-2014, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. 81-2018, passed 5-21-
2018; Ord. 10-2020, passed 1-24-2020; Ord. 125, 2020, passed 8-27-2020; Ord. 7,
2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 90, 2022, passed 6-9-2022)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING METER ZONES.
   The following streets or areas are hereby designated as parking meter zones,
parking therein to be limited to the times indicated. The fee for parking at a
meter shall be as indicated on the meter. Within any of the parking meter zones
designated and defined below, one or more parking meters allowing a different
but more restrictive time limit and appropriate meter fee may be authorized by
this schedule, or a separate ordinance, if deemed practical by the Board of
Commissioners. The fee for parking at such meters may be the same rate or a
different rate fixed for parking at other meters authorized in the same zone.
Parking at a meter beyond the time limits specified by this section shall be
considered to be an overtime parking violation, subject to the penalties
provided in
72.999(F).
 
Street or Area    Portion              Side  Time Limit Ord. Date Passed
                  Beginning at a point
                  on the northerly
                  curbline of
                  Winchester Avenue,
                  said point being 47
                  feet easterly from
                  the project
                  intersection of the
                  easterly curbline of
Winchester Avenue 15th Street and the                   121; 10-21-1999; 5-18-
Meter #W1504L     northerly curbline   North 15 minutes 62   2000
                  of Winchester
                  Avenue; thence in an
                  easterly direction
                  along the northerly
                  curbline of
                  Winchester Avenue, a
                  distance of 22 feet
                  to a point on the
                  northerly curbline
                  of Winchester Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. VI) Penalty, see
72.999(F)
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   (A)   When appropriate signs or street markings have been installed, it
shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave standing any vehicle on the
following streets, or portions thereof.
Street Portion Side Ord. Date Passed
Street            Portion            Side            Ord.      Date Passed
                  Access road from
                  the 3600 block of
                 Winchester Avenue  North and south 98-2014   12-11-2014
                  to the 37th Street
                  Pump Station
                  Area along the
                  easterly side of
                  the Ashland-Boyd
                  County Library
                  Building 30 feet
                  in width and
                  extending from the
                 southerly curb                    55        5-21-1981
                  line of Central
                  Avenue south to
                  the rear property
                  line of the
                  library to be used
                  exclusively as a
                  fire lane
                  Area beginning
                  with the
                  intersection of
                  Cleveland Street
                  and an alley
                  (lying between and
                  running parallel
                  to Sellars Street
                 and Broad Street), Both            34        5-20-1986
                  in a westerly
                  direction both
                  sides of Cleveland
                  Street for 140
                  feet, more or
                  less, to the
                  intersection of
                  the eastside of
                  Broad Street
                  Area beginning
                  with the
                  intersection of an
                  alley (lying
                  between and
                  running parallel
                  to Sellars Street
                  and Broad Street),
                 and Cleveland                     34        5-20-1986
                  Street, in a
                  southerly
                  direction both
                  sides of the alley
                  for 140 feet, more
                  or less, to the
                  intersection of
                  the north side of
                  Cleveland Street
                  Area beginning
                  with the
                  intersection of
                  Cleveland Street
                  and an alley
                  (lying between and
                  running parallel
                 to Sellars Street                 34        5-20-1986
                  and Broad Street),
                  in an easterly
                  direction both
                  sides of Cleveland
                  Street: north
                  sides for 95 feet,
                  of 70 feet more or
                  less
                  From the
                  intersection of
                  Blackburn Avenue
                  and 13th Street
                  southwesterly for
Algonquin Avenue  a distance of 130  Both            119       12-9-1982
                  feet on the
                  northwest side of
                  Algonquin and 72
                  feet on the
                  southeast side of
                  Algonquin
                  From Lexington
Alexander Court   Avenue to Hilton   West            -         - -
                  Avenue
Alley which lies  From the
parallel to and   intersection of
between           52nd Street to the Both            16        3-16-1978
Winchester Avenue intersection of
and Williams      55th Street
Avenue
                  Beginning at a
                  point on the north
Alley between     side of the
Carter Avenue and centerline 130     North side of
Central Avenue    feet east of 21st  centerline      72        6-18-1985
(Railroad Alley)  Street, extending
                  along the
                  centerline 66 feet
                  east
                  Beginning at a
                  point on the north
Alley between     side of the
Carter Avenue and centerline 36 feet North side of
Central Avenue    west of 21st       centerline      72        6-18-1985
(Railroad Alley)  Street extending
                  along the
                  centerline 44 feet
                  west
                  Between Mall Road
Armco Road        to west            Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  corporation limits
Ballard Street    Between Cactus and East            119-2018  7-26-2018
                  Logan Streets
Bath Avenue       From 8th Street to South           -         - -
                  9th Street
Bath Avenue       From 29th Street   North           157-2005; 10-20-2005;
                  to Deal Street                     40-2006   4-20-2006
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  29th Street,
                  easterly a
Bath Avenue       distance of 80     South           61        6-19-1980
                  feet, but not to
                  exceed the depth
                  of the lot of the
                  First Baptist
                  Church
Bath Avenue       Between parking    South           72        6-17-1999
                  lot entrances
Bath Avenue       From 22nd Street   Both            166-2005; 11-3-2005;
                  to 25th Street                     66, 2023  5-26-2023
                  The 1200 block
                  from its
                  intersection with
Bath Avenue       Martin Luther      Both            96, 2023  7-27-2023
                  King, Jr.
                  Boulevard to 13th
                  Street
Bath Avenue       In the 2400 block  North           72-2008   6-23-2008
                  From south 29th
Beech Street      Street to 13th     South           -         - -
                  Street
Beech Street      From Dawes Street  North           83-2018   5-21-2018
                  to Floyd Street
Belmont Street    Entirety           Both            43-2011   3-29-2011
                  From the west city
                  limits to its
                  intersection with
                  Russell Street
                  with the exception
                  of 4 parking
Blackburn Avenue  spaces located in  Both            43-2011   3-29-2011
                  the offset at 1409
                  Blackburn Avenue
                  in front of the
                  Boyd County
                  Emergency
                  Management Office
                  From Cleveland
Broad Street      Avenue to Hood     Both            55        5-26-1993
                  Street
Broom Street                        East            -         - -
Carter Avenue     Between 7th and    South           22A       3-7-1989
                  12th Streets
                  From the
                  intersection of
Carter Avenue     7th Street east    North           22A       3-7-1989
                  for a distance of
                  115 feet more or
                  less
                  From the
                  intersection of
Carter Avenue     11th Street west   North           22A       3-7-1989
                  for 115 feet more
                  or less
                  Between the
Carter Avenue     intersections of   North           22A       3-7-1989
                  11th and 13th
                  Streets
                  Between 13th
Central Avenue    Street and 17th    North           -         - -
                  Street
Central Avenue    From 18th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 22nd Street
                  From 29th Street
Central Avenue    west to Broom      North           -         - -
                  Street
Central Avenue    From 32nd Street   North           157-2005; 10-20-2005;
                  to 35th Street                     40-2006   4-20-2006
                  From the west
Central Avenue    curbline of 28th   South           24        3-20-1980
                  Street to a point
                  288 feet east
Central Avenue    From 6th Street to North           43A       5-1-1980
                  12th Street
                  From its
                  intersection with
Central Avenue    17th Street to a   North           27        3-20-1980
                  point 190 feet
                  east
                  From a point 92
                  feet east of 28th
Central Avenue    Street to a point  North           81        3-7-1984
                  39 feet east
                  thereof
Central Avenue    From 22nd Street   Both            27-2008;  3-6-2008;
                  to 25th Street                     105-2013  10-24-2013
                  From its
                  intersection with
Charles Street    Beech Street to a                 98        10-20-1981
                  point 100 feet on
                  the east and west
                  side
Chuck Woolery                       East            135-2004  9-2-2004
Blvd.
Chuck Woolery     In Central Park    Both            44-2008   5-1-2008
Blvd.
                  Within the central
Circle No. 3,     turn around                       -         - -
Prospect          portion of the
                  circle
Cleveland Street  From Broad Street  Both            55        5-26-1993
                  to Sellers Street
Court Street      Entire length      West            -         - -
                  100 feet back from
Cumberland Avenue its intersection   Both            26-2008   3-6-2008
                  with 13th Street
Cypress Street    From 13th Street   North           30;       4-16-1991;
                  to Ester Street                    73        6-27-1991
Cypress Street    From Ester Street  South           73        6-27-1991
                  to the dead end
                  From Beech Street
Dawes Street      and continuing 100 Both            66-2010   6-24-2010
                  feet
                  Between Ramey
Ester Street      Street and Cypress Both            30        4-16-1991
                  Street
                  From Cypress
Ester Street      Street south to    East            30        4-16-1991
                  the dead end
                  Beginning at a
                  point in the west
                  curb line 440 feet
                  from the north
                  curb line
                  intersection of
Ferry Street      Pollard Road and                  81        6-2-1994
                  the west curb line
                  of Ferry Street,
                  thence with the
                  curb line of Ferry
                  Street northwest
                  for 40 feet
Ferry Street      From 6th Street to North           101-1997  7-17-1997
                  Pollard Road
Front Street      From 15th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 13th Street
Front Street      From 15th Street                  144       12-16-1987
                  to 18th Street
                  Beginning at the
                  southeast
                  intersection of
                  the curb lines of
                  Gartrell Street                    8-1981;   1-22-1981;
Gartrell Street   and Ridgeway       Both            9;        2-17-1981;
                  Avenue, and                        127       11-17-1987
                  extending with the
                  south curb line of
                  Gartrell Street
                  east a distance of
                  345 feet
                  From 44th Street                   - ;       - -;
Gartrell Street   to the east end of Both            8-1981    1-22-1981
                  Gartrell Street
                  From its northwest
                  intersection with
                  Chadwick Street,                   8-1981;   1-22-1981;
Gartrell Street   extending with the Both            9;        2-17-1981;
                  north curb line of                 127       11-17-1987
                  Gartrell Street
                  west 315 feet
                  Beginning at a
                  point 30 feet from
                  center of Madison
Glenn Street      in a westerly      North           37        4-18-1996
                  direction and 20
                  feet from center
                  in an easterly
                  direction
Greenup Avenue    From 7th Street to North           -         - -
                  13th Street
Greenup Avenue    From 12th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 13th Street
Greenup Avenue    From 20th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 34th Street
Greenup Avenue    From 20th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 35th Street
                  From its
Greenup Avenue    intersection with
(U.S. Route 32)   11th Street to its South           111       12-4-1980
                  intersection with
                  12th Street
                  Beginning at the
                  projected
                  intersection of
                  the westerly
                  curbline of 15th
Greenup Avenue    Street and the
(in front of Carl northerly curbline
D. Perkins        of Greenup Avenue, North           122       10-17-2002
Federal Building) thence extending
                  in a westerly
                  direction, 242
                  feet to a point on
                  the northerly
                  curbline of
                  Greenup Avenue
Griffith Street   From Oakview Road  West            -         - -
                  to Main Street
Gum Alley                           Both            30        4-16-1991
                  From Lincoln
                  Avenue to Central
Hager Street      Parkway            North           108       10-6-1987
                  (established as a
                  fire lane)
                  The 2900 block,
Hamton Street     from 29th Street   North           148       11-3-1983
                  to Ferguson Street
                  From Cypress
Harlan Street     Street to Fairfax  East            -         - -
                  Drive
                  Between Ramey
Harlan Street     Street and Cypress East            42        4-9-1992
                  Street
Herman Avenue                       North           -         - -
                  From Blackburn
High Street       Avenue to Shute    East            -         - -
                  Street
Hilton Avenue     From 18th Street   South           43A       5-1-1980
                  to 25th Street
Holt Street       From 29th Street   North           43A       5-1-1980
                  to Condit School
                  From its
                  intersection with
Holt Street       29th Street an     North           107-2011  9-15-2011
                  additional 20 feet
                  in a westerly
                  direction
                  From Blackburn
Kansas Street     Avenue to 29th     North           -         - -
                  Street
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  13th Street to the
Kentucky Avenue   end of the         Both            36        3-15-2001
                  property located
                  at 2400 13th
                  Street
                  Between 24th
Lexington Avenue  Street and 25th    North           33        5-7-1991
                  Street
Lexington Avenue  From 13th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 17th Street
Lexington Avenue  From 14th Street   West            45        5-7-1998
                  to the alley
Lexington Avenue  From 17th Street   North           -         - -
                  to 22nd Street
                  From 20th Street,
Lexington Avenue  extending 60 feet  South           66-2010   6-24-2010
                  east
                  From 22nd Street,
Lexington Avenue  extending 350 feet South           -         - -
                  east
Lexington Avenue  From 22nd Street   South           -         - -
                  to 29th Street
                  From 25th Street,
Lexington Avenue  extending 750 feet South           -         - -
                  east
Lexington Avenue  From 26th Street   South           -         - -
                  to 27th Street
Lexington Avenue  From 22nd Street   North           80        8-7-1984
                  to 24th Street
                  From 22nd Street
Lexington Avenue  to a point 150     South           43A       5-1-1980
                  feet west of 22nd
                  Street
Main Street       From 29th Street   South           -         - -
                  to Crooks Street
                  From Winchester
Mall Road         Avenue to Armco    Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  Road
Market Street                       North           -         - -
                  Between 13th
Maryland Parkway  Street and Hyman   North           85        7-23-1991
                  Avenue
May Court         Entire length      Both            -         - -
May Court                           West and south  17        4-7-1977
                  From its
                  intersection with
Mayo Plaza        12th Street to its                105       11-6-1980
                  intersection with
                  13th Street
                  From 28th Street
Mill Street       to a point 188     North           24        3-20-1980
                  feet east
Montgomery Avenue From 8th Street to North           64        6-3-1999
                  10th Street
                  From 22nd Street
Montgomery Avenue to a point 197     North           80        8-7-1984
                  feet east
                  From a point 375
Montgomery Avenue feet east of 22nd  North           80        8-7-1984
                  Street to 23rd
                  Street
Montgomery Avenue From 22nd Street   South           80        8-7-1984
                  to 23rd Street
Montgomery        From 23rd Street   Both            80        8-7-1984
                  west for 176 feet
Montgomery Avenue From 23rd Street   Both            66, 2023  5-26-2023
                  to 25th Street
                  (Three most
                  westerly parking
Montgomery Avenue spaces in the 2300 North           166-2005; 11-3-2005;
                  Block, except for                  5-2009    2-19-2009
                  official vehicles
                  only)
Montgomery Avenue From 29th Street   North           157-2005; 10-20-2005;
                  to 31st Street                     40-2006   4-20-2006
Montgomery Avenue 2300 and 2400      South           117-2008  11-20-2008
                  blocks
                  From Ashland
Moore Street      Avenue to Crooks   North           -         - -
                  Street
                  From Thomas Street
Moore Street      to a point 120     North           35        3-3-1983
                  feet west of
                  Ashland Avenue
                  From a point 90
Moore Street      feet east of Elam  North           35        3-3-1983
                  Street west to
                  Oakview Road
                  From Ashland
Moore Street      Avenue to a point  South           35        3-3-1983
                  60 feet west of
                  Elam Street
Nichols Place     1300 block                        97-2004   7-1-2004
                  From its
                  intersection with
Nolte Street      29th Street,       South           23        6-21-1979
                  extending east a
                  distance of 150
                  feet
Oakview Road      Entirety           Both            43-2011   3-29-2011
Old Greenup       700 block          Both            135-2006  9-21-2006
Avenue
                  2200 block of
                  Pollard Road from
                  the corner of 2201
Pollard Road      Pollard Road                      142       11-6-1997
                  approximately 50
                  ft. in a
                  southwesterly
                  direction.
                  Beginning at a
                  point on Powell
                  Street, said point
                  being
                  approximately 500
                  ft. southerly from
                  the intersection
                  of Powell Street
                  and Simpson Road,
                  thence in a
                  westerly
                  direction, 250 ft.
Powell Street     to a point on      Both            100-1997  7-17-1997
                  Powell Street;
                  designated area of
                  no parking to
                  include both sides
                  of Powell Street,
                  between the above
                  described
                  reference points,
                  and being the
                  section of Powell
                  Street designated
                  by address from
                  3129 to 3145
                  From Lexington
Prospect Avenue   Avenue to Dipard   West            -         - -
                  Hill Drive
                  Across from 915
                  Prospect Avenue
                  beginning at a
                  point on the
                  easterly curb line
                  of Prospect
                  Avenue, said point
                  being 167 feet
Prospect Avenue   from the southerly                152-1994  11-17-1994
                  curb line of
                  Hilton Avenue,
                  thence in a
                  southerly
                  direction 73 ft.
                  to a point on the
                  easterly curb line
                  of Prospect Avenue
Putnam Street                       South           125       9-4-1997
Putnam Street     From Logan Street  Both            119-2018  7-26-2018
                  200 ft. northward
                  Between Gum Alley
                  and Ester Street;
                  beginning at Ramey
                  Street
                  intersection of
                  Ester Street,
                  thence in a                        30;       4-16-1991;
Ramey Street      southeasterly      South           139;      10-27-1992;
                  direction along                    144       10-20-1994
                  the south side of
                  Ramey Street
                  approximately 950
                  feet to its
                  intersection with
                  Oakview Road
                  From its
                  intersection with
Ramey Street      13th Street to its North           144       10-20-1994
                  intersection with
                  Oakview Road
Ramey Street      From 13th Street   North or south  77        6-15-2000
                  to Oakview Road
                  From its
                  intersection with
Raybourne Road    13th Street (U.S.  Both            109       11-20-1980
                  Route 60) east to
                  its intersection
                  with Skyline Drive
Renfroe Street    From its dead end  Both            -         - -
                  to Douglas Street
Ringo Street                        East            124       9-4-1997
River Hill Drive                    Both            01-2006   1-5-2006
                  Beginning at a
                  point on the north
                  curb line 530 feet
                  southwest from the
                  intersection of
                  the west curb line
Sellars Street    of Moore Street    North           119       9-1-1994
                  and the north curb
                  line of Sellars
                  Street, thence
                  continuing along
                  the north curb
                  line 170 feet
                  Beginning at a
                  point on the south
                  curb line 530 feet
                  southwest from the
                  intersection of
                  the west curb line
                  of Moore Street
Sellars Street    and the south curb South           119       9-1-1994
                  line of Sellars
                  Street, thence
                  with the south
                  curb line of
                  Sellars Street
                  crossing Payne
                  Alley 170 feet to
                  a point
Skyline Drive     From Floyd Street  Both            114       10-1-1985
                  to Boy Scout Road
                  From Blackburn
                  Avenue to the
                  intersection of
                  Floyd Street;
South 29th Street except the west    Both            114       10-1-1985
                  side of South 29th
                  Street from
                  Prichard Street to
                  Robin Lynn Drive
Town Center Drive Between Winchester Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Armco Road
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  Blackburn Avenue,
                  extending in a
                  generally
Virgin Street     northerly          Both            76        12-15-1977
                  direction for 130
                  feet, more or
                  less, to an alley
                  that lies between
                  Blackburn Avenue
                  and Cabell Street
West access road  Between Winchester
at the 13th       Avenue and Greenup                98        9-15-1987
Street bridge     Avenue
                  From Blackburn
                  Avenue southward
West Euclid       to the alley       East            155       11-17-1983
                  halfway between
                  Ridgeway Drive and
                  Blackburn Avenue
                  The public right-
                  of-way, from
West Euclid       Blackburn Avenue   West            155       11-17-1983
                  to a point 25 feet
                  south
                  From its
                  intersection with
Williams Avenue   52nd Street and    East            146, 2019 11-15-2019
                  continuing 50 feet
                  south
                  From Muncy Avenue
Williams Avenue   to the end of      West            -         - -
                  Williams Avenue
                  From its
                  intersection with
Willis Street     Nolte Street 175   Both            40        10-4-1979
                  feet in a
                  southwesterly
                  direction
Winchester Avenue From 4th Street to South           -         - -
                  6th Street
Winchester Avenue From 27th Street   Both            -         - -
                  to 28th Street
Winchester Avenue From 31st Street   North           -         - -
                  east for 140 feet
Winchester Avenue From 32nd Street   North           -         - -
                  east for 85 feet
                  From 35th Street
Winchester Avenue east to the flood  South           -         - -
                  wall
                  From 37th Street
Winchester Avenue to the eastern     North           -         - -
                  city limits
                  From its
                  intersection with
Winchester Avenue 31st Street,       North           2         1-6-1977
                  extending east a
                  distance of 140
                  feet
                  From its
                  intersection with
Winchester Avenue 32nd Street,       North           2         1-6-1977
                  extending east a
                  distance of 85
                  feet
                  From the
Winchester Avenue intersection of    South           128       11-21-1989
                  10th Street 70
                  feet east
                  From its
                  intersection with
Winchester Avenue Greenup Avenue     Both            5-1995    1-19-1995
                  near 33rd Street
                  to 32nd Street
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  25th Street east
Winchester Avenue to the city limits Both            150-2001  11-8-2001
                  except on the
                  north side in the
                  2800 block
Workman Road      Entirety           Both            43        4-9-1992
                  In its entirety,
                  except in the
2nd Circle        areas designated                  48        5-19-1987
Prospect          in the middle of
                  the circle as
                  parking spaces
                  The public right-
                  of-way, from
6th Street        Winchester Avenue  East            77        6-2-1983
                  to a point 80 feet
                  north
7th Street        Between Winchester Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Carter Avenues
                  From Winchester
7th Street        Avenue north to    West            -         - -
                  alley
                  From Winchester
7th Street        Avenue south to    West            -         - -
                  alley
8th Street        Between Winchester Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Carter Avenues
8th Street        Between Central    West            41;       5-4-1993;
                  and Bath Avenues                   3-2018    1-11-2018
                  300 block of 8th
                  Street from its
                  intersection with
8th Street        Winchester Avenue  East            80-2018   5-21-2018
                  (U.S. 23) to a
                  point 80 ft. on
                  the east side
9th Street        Between Winchester West            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Carter Avenues
9th Street        Between Carter and Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  Central Avenues
                  From Montgomery
9th Street        Avenue to Central  East            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  In the 300 block
9th Street        for a distance of  East            81        12-15-1977
                  90 feet north of
                  Carter Avenue
10th Street       Between Winchester West            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Carter Avenues
                  From Central
10th Street       Avenue to          West            -         - -
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  From Winchester
10th Street       Avenue to Clarke   West            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From the
                  intersection of
10th Street       Greenup Avenue     West            128       11-21-1989
                  south to the
                  intersection of
                  Winchester Avenue
11th Street       Between Winchester West            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Carter Avenues
                  From Winchester
                  Avenue to Greenup
                  Avenue, except in
                  those areas
11th Street       established as     East            -         - -
                  permitted parking
                  areas and
                  indicated by signs
                  erected by the
                  Police Division
                  From Winchester
11th Street       Avenue to Greenup  West            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From Winchester
12th Street       Avenue to Pollard  Both            -         - -
                  and Oakview Roads
                  From Central
13th Street       Avenue to Bath     East            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From Central
13th Street       Avenue to Greenup  West            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From Fairfax
13th Street       Avenue to Douglas  Both            -         - -
                  Street
                  From Greenup
13th Street       Avenue to the city Both            -         - -
                  limits
                  From Winchester
13th Street       Avenue to Greenup  East            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From the floodwall                 50-2002;  6-6-2002;
15th Street       gate to the        Both            127-2009  9-17-2009
                  railroad crossing
                  Beginning at a
                  point 5 ft. 6 in.
                  from the
                  intersection of
                  the westerly line
                  of 17th Street
                  with the northerly
                  line of an alley
                  (said alley lying
                  between and
17th Street       running parallel                 65        6-3-1999
                  to Front Street
                  and Greenup
                  Avenue); thence
                  extending in a
                  northerly
                  direction along
                  the westerly line
                  of 17th Street 34
                  ft. 2 in. to the
                  point of beginning
                  Between Greenup
17th Street       Avenue and Market  East            22A       3-7-1989
                  Street
                  From Greenup
17th Street       Avenue south 42    West            22A       3-7-1989
                  feet more or less
17th Street       From Carter Avenue East            95, 2022  6-9-2022
                  north to the alley
17th Street       From Carter Avenue West            95, 2022  6-9-2022
                  north 135 feet
17th Street       Between Carter and Both            22A       3-7-1989
                  Central Avenues
17th Street       Between Central    East            22A       3-7-1989
                  and Bath Avenues
17th Street       Between Bath and   East            22A       3-7-1989
                  Montgomery Avenues
                  Between Montgomery
17th Street       and Lexington      East            22A       3-7-1989
                  Avenues
                  From Greenup
18th Street       Avenue to Carter   East            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From Lexington
18th Street       Avenue to Hilton   East            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  The city s 25-foot
                  right-of-way
                  between 18th
                  Street and 1745
18th Street       Greenup Avenue;    West            107       10-16-1984
                  and 62 feet north
                  from the northwest
                  corner of 18th
                  Street and Greenup
                  Avenue
                  The 400 block
18th Street       between Carter     East            152-2004  11-18-2004
                  Avenue and Central
                  Avenue
22nd Street       Bath Avenue to     Both            166-2005; 11-3-2005;
                  Lexington Avenue                   66, 2023  5-26-2023
                  From Winchester
22nd Street       Avenue to          West            -         - -
                  Lexington Avenue
                  From Montgomery
22nd Street       Avenue to Hilton   East            80        8-7-1984
                  Avenue
                  From Central                       166-2005; 11-3-2005;
23rd Street       Avenue to          Both            66, 2023  5-26-2023
                  Lexington Avenue
                  From Montgomery
23rd Street       Avenue to Bath     East            72        6-17-1999
                  Avenue
                  From Montgomery
23rd Street       Avenue to          West            -         - -
                  Lexington Avenue
                  From Greenup
23rd Street       Avenue to          East            80        8-7-1984
                  Winchester Avenue
                  From the alley
23rd Street       between Winchester East            80        8-7-1984
                  and Carter Avenues
                  to Carter Avenue
                  From the alley
                  between bath and
                  Montgomery
23rd Street       Avenues, 746 feet  East            80        8-7-1984
                  south to the alley
                  between Lexington
                  and Hilton Avenues
                  From Greenup
23rd Street       Avenue to          West            80        8-7-1984
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  From Lexington
23rd Street       Avenue to Hilton   West            80        8-7-1984
                  Avenue
                  From Central
24th Street       Avenue to          Both            66, 2023  5-26-2023
                  Lexington Avenue
                  Beginning at a
                  point at the
                  intersection of
                  the northerly curb
                  line of Central
                  Avenue and the
25th Street       westerly curb line West            132       12-1-1987
                  of 25th Street;
                  thence with the
                  westerly curb line
                  of 25th Street for
                  a distance of 75
                  feet
                  From Winchester
25th Street       Avenue to Carter   East            -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From Lexington
25th Street       Avenue to Hilton   West            43A       5-1-1980
                  Avenue
                  Between Montgomery
25th Street       Avenue and         West            105-2008  10-16-2008
                  Lexington Avenue
                  Between Greenup
25th Street       Avenue and         Both            101-2010  10-21-2010
                  Winchester Avenue
                  Between Winchester
25th Street       Avenue and Carter  East            101-2010  10-21-2010
                  Avenue
                  Between Winchester
                  Avenue and Carter
25th Street       Avenue from the    Both            101-2010  10-21-2010
                  alley to Carter
                  Avenue
25th Street       Carter Avenue to   Both            101-2010  10-21-2010
                  Bath Avenue
                  From Montgomery
26th Street       Avenue to          West            -         - -
                  Lexington Avenue
                  From its
                  intersection with
26th Street       Lexington Avenue   West            2         1-4-1979
                  to its
                  intersection with
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  From Lexington
27th Street       Avenue to          West            102-1997  7-17-1997
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  700 block
                  beginning at the
                  intersection point
                  of the easterly
                  line of 27th
                  Street and the
                  northerly line of
                  an alley; said
                  alley lying
                  between and being
27th Street       parallel to                       52        5-4-2000
                  Lexington Avenue
                  and Montgomery
                  Avenue, thence
                  with the easterly
                  line of 27th
                  Street, 117 ft.
                  northeasterly to a
                  point on the
                  easterly line of
                  27th Street
                  From Central
28th Street       Avenue to Mill     East            24        3-20-1980
                  Street
                  From Central
28th Street       Avenue to Mill     West            86        8-21-1981
                  Street
                  From Greenup
29th Street       Avenue south to    East            -         - -
                  alley
29th Street       From Holt Street   Both            -         - -
                  to Moore Street
                  From Lexington
29th Street       Avenue to Holt     Both            43-2011   3-29-2011
                  Street
                  From Moore Street
29th Street       to Blackburn       Both            43-2011   3-29-2011
                  Avenue
                  From Winchester
29th Street       Avenue to Belmont  East            -         - -
                  Street
                  100 feet in either
29th Street       direction from     West            -         - -
                  Geiger s Crossing
                  From Greenup
                  Avenue to Holt
                  Street and from
                  Moore Street to
                  Blackburn Avenue,
29th Street       with the exception Both            47        7-21-1977
                  of the west side
                  of 29th Street
                  between Herman
                  Avenue and
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  Greenup Avenue to
                  Blackburn Avenue,
                  except the west
                  side of 29th                       114;
29th Street       Street from the    Both            51;       10-1-1985; 4-21-
                  southwest corner                   79        1994; 6-2-1994
                  of Central Avenue
                  129 feet south and
                  the west side of
                  29th Street from
                  Herman Avenue to
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  From Railroad
30th Street       Street to Bath     East            40-2006   4-20-2006
                  Avenue
                  From Railroad
31st              Street to          East            40-2006   4-20-2006
                  Montgomery Avenue
                  Between Winchester
31st Street       and Greenup        East            85        7-23-1991
                  Avenues
                  From Winchester
31st Street       Avenue to Carter                  -         - -
                  Avenue
                  From Winchester
31st Street       Avenue northerly a East            -         - -
                  distance of 50
                  feet
                  From its
                  intersection with
                  Winchester Avenue,
31st Street       extending          East            2         1-6-1977
                  northerly a
                  distance of 50
                  feet
                  Between Winchester
32nd Street       and Greenup        West            85        7-23-1991
                  Avenues
                  From Winchester
32nd Street       Avenue north 50    Both            -         - -
                  feet
                  From its
                  intersection with
32nd Street       Winchester Avenue, Both            2         1-6-1977
                  extending north 50
                  feet
                  From Railroad
32nd Street       Street to Bath     East            40-2006   4-20-2006
                  Avenue
                  From Central
34th Street       Avenue to          West            43A       5-1-1980
                  Chatteroi Street
                  From Central
34th Street       Avenue to a point  East            43A       5-1-1980
                  60 feet north of
                  Central Avenue
                  From Greenup
35th Street       Avenue to          East            -         - -
                  Winchester Avenue
                  From Winchester
                  Avenue (U.S. 23)
                  extending 570 feet
                  for a distance of
41st Street       570 feet in the    North           93-2017   9-14-2017
                  vicinity of the
                  City of Ashland
                  Water Treatment
                  Plant
                  From Winchester
41st Street       Avenue (U.S. 23)   South           93-2017   9-14-2017
                  to Brown Street
                  Beginning at a
                  point, said point
                  being at the
                  Southwest
                  intersection of
                  Gartrell Street
44th Street       and 44th Street;                  75        6-26-1995
                  thence with the
                  West side of 44th
                  Street in a
                  southerly
                  direction 130
                  feet.
                  From Winchester
45th Street       Avenue to          West            -         - -
                  Blackburn Avenue
                  From Winchester
49th Street       Avenue to Williams West            138       12-8-1987
                  Avenue
                  From its
                  intersection with
52nd Street       Williams Avenue    South           146, 2019 11-15-2019
                  and continuing 50
                  feet east
 
   (B)   (1)   For any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this
schedule who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not
be less than $10.
      (2)   If violation of this schedule results in a uniform citation being
issued, any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this schedule shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040
for a violation offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. VII) (Ord. 5-1995, passed 1-19-1995; Ord. 100-1997,
passed 7-17-1997; Ord. 101-1997, passed 7-17-1997; Ord. 102-1997, passed 7-17-
1997; Ord. 150-2001, passed 11-8-2001; Ord. 50-2002, passed 6-6-2002; Ord. 135-
2004, passed 9-2-2004; Ord. 01-2006, passed 1-5-2006; Ord. 40-2006, passed 4-
20-2006; Ord. 105-2008, passed 10-16-2008; Ord. 117-2008, passed 11-20-2008;
Ord. 101-2010, passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 107-2011, passed 9-15-2011; Ord. 93-
2017, passed 9-14-2017; Ord. 154, 2020, passed 11-20-2020) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE VII. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave standing any vehicle
on the following streets, or portions thereof, during the times indicated.
Street Portion Side Time Limit Ord. Date
Street        Portion              Side  Time Limit           Ord.    Date
Devore Street From Monroe Street   West  During events at     106     10-2-1984
              to Adams Street            Putnam Stadium
Elm Street    From 29th Street to  North During events at     106     10-2-1984
              Dawes Street               Putnam Stadium
Evans Street  From 29th Street to  North During events at     106     10-2-1984
              Dawes Street               Putnam Stadium
Joel Street   From 29th Street to  North During events at     106     10-2-1984
              Dawes Street               Putnam Stadium
Kansas Street From 29th Street to  North During events at     106     10-2-1984
              Monroe Street              Putnam Stadium
              From Blackburn             During events at
Monroe Street Avenue to Prichard   West  Putnam Stadium       106     10-2-1984
              Street
Montague      From 29th Street to  North During events at     106     10-2-1984
              Jackson Street             Putnam Stadium
              Three spaces
              beginning with
14th Street   second space north   West  Between 10:30 a.m.   79      9-3-1998
              on Winchester Avenue       and 12:30 p.m.
              (for Meals on Wheels
              program)
              Beginning at its
              intersection with          Between the hours of
14th Street   Bath Avenue and      West  6:00 a.m. and 6:00   44-2010 4-15-2010
              continuing south for       p.m., Monday through
              250 feet along 14th        Friday
              Street
              From the alley
              between Winches-ter        Monday through
17th Street   and Carter Avenue    Both  Saturday             66      9-7-1978
              south to Central
              Avenue
                                         Between 1:00 a.m.
18th Street   From Greenup Avenue       and 6:00 a.m.        -       - -
              to Central Avenue          Tuesdays and
                                         Thursdays
                                         Between 1:00 a.m.
19th Street   From Greenup Avenue       and 6:00 a.m.        -       - -
              to Central Avenue          Tuesdays and
                                         Thursdays
                                         Between 1:00 a.m.
20th Street   From Greenup Avenue       and 6:00 a.m.        -       - -
              to Central Avenue          Tuesdays and
                                         Thursdays
              Between Winchester         Between 1:00 a.m.
21st Street   Avenue and Carter         and 6:00 a.m. on     -       - -
              Avenue                     Fridays
              From its
              intersection with          From 7:00 a.m. to 7:
27th Street   Winchester Avenue to      00 p.m.              1       1-6-1981
              its intersection
              with Carter Avenue
              From its                   From 7:00 a.m. to 9:
              intersection with          00 a.m. and from 5:
29th Street   Hackworth Street to       00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. -       - -
              its intersection           Monday through
              with Moore Street          Saturday
              From its
              intersection with          From 7:00 a.m. to 7:
29th Street   Lexington Avenue to       00 p.m. Monday       -       - -
              its intersection           through Saturday
              with Newman Street
              From Newman Street         From 7:00 a.m. to 7:
29th Street   to Holt Street       West  00 p.m. Monday       51      4-21-1994
                                         through Saturday
              From Winchester            Between 1:00 a.m.
29th Street   Avenue to Black-burn      and 6:00 a.m.        -       - -
              Avenue                     Tuesdays and
                                         Thursdays
                                         Between 1:00 a.m.
34th Street   From Greenup Avenue       and 6:00 a.m.        -       - -
              to Winchester Avenue       Mondays and
                                         Wednesdays
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. VIII) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE VIII. PARKING DURATION LIMITED.
   When appropriate signs have been erected, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle on the following streets, or portions thereof, during
the times indicated.
Street Portion Side Time Limit Ord. Date Passed
Street        Portion        Side          Time Limit     Ord.      Date Passed
              1500 block:
              beginning at a
              point on the
              north curb
              line of Carter
              Avenue, said
              point being
              127.50 feet
              from the
              intersection
              of the east
              curb line of
              15th Street
              and the north
              line of Carter
              Avenue; thence
              with the north
              line of Carter
              Avenue in a
              southeasterly
              direction 14
              feet to a
Carter Avenue point; thence               15 minutes     126, 2023 9-14-2023
              leaving said
              curb line, at
              approximately
              60 degree
              angle to the
              curb, in a
              southwesterly
              direction 22
              feet to a
              point; thence
              in a
              northwesterly
              direction 14
              feet to a
              point; thence
              in a
              northeasterly
              direction 22
              feet to the
              point and
              place of
              beginning
              Beginning at a
              point 25 feet
              east of the
              intersection
              of the
              easterly
Central       curbline of                  30-minute
Avenue        Central Avenue              limit          12        3-3-1977
              and continuing
              east to
              encompass two
              parking
              spaces, each
              20 feet in
              length
              Beginning 20
              feet west of
              the fire
              hydrant which
              is located
              just west of
Central       18th Street    North         30-minute      12        3-3-1977
Avenue        and continuing               limit
              west to
              encompass
              three parking
              spaces, each
              20 feet in
              length
              1700 block, in
              the space
              adjacent to
              the western-
Central       most point of
Avenue ****   the current    South         15 minutes     38, 2021  4-12-2021
              handicap
              parking space
              and extending
              in a westerly
              direction
Central       3100 Central                Two 15-minute  96-2004   7-1-2004
Avenue        Avenue                       parking spaces
              From 17th
Greenup       Street to
Avenue        entrance of    South         15 minutes     -         - -
              the Central
              Fire Station
Greenup       Between 17th
Avenue        and 18th       South         30 minutes     113       8-24-2000
              Streets
              Two parking
              spaces for
              City Building
              customers:
              beginning at a
              point 46 feet
              from the
              northeast
              corner of
              Korean War
Korean War    Veterans Way
Veterans Way  (Market                     30 minutes     193, 2022 12-19-2022
(Market       Street) at its
Street)**     intersection
              with 17th
              Street and
              continuing in
              an easterly
              direction 46
              feet adjacent
              to the south
              side of the
              Ashland City
              Building
              One space for                               151;      12-8-1988;
Market Street persons with   South         2 hour         26        3-7-1996
              disabilities
              From 29th                    One-hour
Winchester    Street to a                  limit, 8:00
Avenue        point 150 feet              a.m. to 5:00   -         - -
              west of 29th                 p.m.
              Street
Winchester    At 1613                     15 minutes     103       7-17-1997
Avenue
Winchester    One space at                15 minutes     106-1998; 11-19-1998;
Avenue        1539                                        63-2000   5-18-2000
              1400 block:
              starting at
              the southeast
              corner of 14th
              and Winchester
Winchester    and measuring               15 minutes     38, 2021  4-12-2021
Avenue ****   in an easterly
              direction
              beginning at
              180 feet and
              extending east
              23 ft.
              1400 block:
              starting at
              the northeast
              corner of 14th
              and Winchester
Winchester    and measuring               15 minutes     38, 2021  4-12-2021
Avenue ****   in an easterly
              direction
              beginning at
              159 feet and
              extending east
              23 feet
              1500 block:
              starting at
              the southeast
              corner of 15th
              and Winchester
              and measuring
              in an easterly
              direction
              beginning at
              145 feet and
Winchester    extending east
Avenue ****   22 feet; and                15 minutes     38, 2021  4-12-2021
              starting at
              the northeast
              corner of 15th
              and Winchester
              and measuring
              in an easterly
              direction
              beginning at
              136 feet and
              extending east
              22 feet
              1600 block:
              starting at
              the southeast
              corner of 16th
              and Winchester
              and measuring
              in an easterly
              direction
              beginning at
              214 feet and
Winchester    extending east
Avenue ****   23 feet; and                15 minutes     38, 2021  4-12-2021
              starting at
              the northeast
              corner of 16th
              and Winchester
              and measuring
              in an easterly
              direction
              beginning at
              190 feet and
              extending east
              23 feet
              From its
              intersection
14th Street   with Central   East and west Two-hour limit 167-2018  11-29-2018
              Avenue 195
              feet south to
              the alley
              In the
              southern-most
              space located
              between
              Winchester
              Avenue and the
15th Street   alley running  West          15 minutes     28, 2023; 3-9-2023;
              parallel to                                 126, 2023 9-14-2023
              Winchester
              Avenue and
              Carter Avenue
              between 14th
              and 15th
              Streets
16th Street   100 block of   East and west Two-hour limit 82-2018   5-21-2018
              16th Street
              From Greenup                 Two-hour
17th Street   Avenue to                   limit, 9:00    -         - -
              Carter Avenue                a.m. to 5:00
                                           p.m.
              Second through
              seventh
              parking spaces
              from Greenup
17th Street   Avenue in the  West          30-minute      100-2010; 10-21-2010;
              200 Block                    parking spaces 83-2013   8-22-2013
              adjacent to
              the new
              Ashland Police
              Station
              Second and
              third parking
              spaces south
              from the
              corner of
              Korean War                   15-minute
17th Street   Veterans Way   East          parking spaces 84-2013   8-22-2013
              (formerly
              known and
              referred to as
              Market Street
              in the 200
              block
                                           After 6:00
18th Street   100 block                   p.m. on Friday 98-2004   7-1-2004
                                           and Saturday
                                           Two-hour limit
              300 block from               from 9:00 a.m.
18th          Winchester     West          to 5:00 p.m.   52-2016   4-14-2016
Street***     Avenue to                    Monday through
              Carter Avenue                Friday, except
                                           holidays*
              Lying
              generally from
              the east side
              of 13th Street
              to, and                      Two-hour limit
              including, the               from 9:00 a.m. 52-2016;  4-14-2016;
***           east side of                 to 5:00 p.m.   82-2018;  5-21-2018;
              18th Street                  Monday through 167-2018  11-29-2018
              from the north               Friday, except
              side of                      holidays*
              Greenup Avenue
              to the south
              side of
              Central Avenue
              Beginning at a
              point on the
              curb line on
              the south side
              of the City
              Transportation
              Center, at the
              west end of
              the building;
**            thence with    South         One-hour limit 50-2006   4-20-2006
              the curb line
              in an easterly
              direction for
              a distance of
              205 feet to a
              point,
              allowing for
              approximately
              nine parking
              spaces
 
   *   The holidays referred to above include New Year s Day, Martin Luther
King, Jr. Day, Memorial Day, July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day.
   **   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this regulation
who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not be less
than $10. If a violation of this regulation results in a uniform citation being
issued, any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this regulation shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by
a fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS
534.040 for a violation offense.
   ***   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this regulation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine as set forth in 72.999(P). Exempted from these provisions are the
Municipal Parking Lot in the 1500 block of Greenup Avenue and the Municipal
Parking Lot located at the corner of 14th Street and Winchester Avenue as they
are governed by Ord. 122-2004, as amended by Ord. 69-2011. Also exempted is
Mayo Plaza from the east side of 13th Street to 17th Street. Further exceptions
to the two-hour parking intervals are as follows: the south side of Greenup
Avenue from 17th Street to 18th Street; the south side of Central Avenue from
17th Street to 18th Street.
****   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this regulation
who chooses to prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not be less
than $10. If violation of this regulation results in a uniform citation being
issued, any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of
this regulation shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by
a fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS
534.040 for a violation offense provided that any person guilty of a violation
of the terms of this schedule three times within a 30-day period shall
thereafter be punished by a fine for each subsequent offense of not less than
$50 nor more than the maximum amount for a violation stated in KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. IX) (Ord. 38, 2021, passed 4-12-2021) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE IX. RESERVED PARKING FOR OFFICIAL CITY VEHICLES.
   When appropriate signs or street markings are installed, the following areas
are hereby provided and reserved for the parking of official vehicles of the
city as are designed by the City Manager. The Director of Public Services is
hereby directed to install appropriate signs and street markings to carry out
the provisions of this schedule. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and
directed to carry out the provisions of this schedule and to take appropriate
steps to enforce these provisions.
 
Area or Street                                        Portion Ord. Date Passed
Between Market and Greenup Avenues, being adjacent to
the Municipal Building and the Central Fire Station          -    - -
Building
Between 17th and 18th Streets, being adjacent to the         -    - -
Municipal Building and the Central Fire Station
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. X) Penalty, see
72.999
SCHEDULE X. RESIDENT ONLY PARKING BY PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. The following areas shall be included within the resident
only parking zone, for use by residents only, at those locations designated by
white line curb and/or street markings and appropriate signs on each affected
block giving notice that a resident parking permit area has been established:
Street Location Times Ord. Date Passed
Street            Location            Times                Ord.     Date Passed
                  From Cypress Street 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
Cypress Court     to the dead end     p.m. Monday through  154      11-18-2004
                                      Friday
                                      8:30 a.m. to 2:30
                                      p.m. Monday through
Cypress Street    From 13th Street to Friday on those days 78-1997  6-12-1997
                  the dead end        Ashland Community
                                      College is in
                                      session
                                      8:30 a.m. to 2:30
                                      p.m. Monday through
Ester Street      From Cypress Street Friday on those days 78-1997  6-12-1997
                  to the dead end     Ashland Community
                                      College is in
                                      session
                                      8:30 a.m. to 2:30
                                      p.m. Monday through
Harlan Street     From Ramey Street   Friday on those days 78-1997  6-12-1997
                  to Fairfax Drive    Ashland Community
                                      College is in
                                      session
                  From 20th Street to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
Hilton Avenue     25th Street         p.m. Monday through  154      11-18-2004
                                      Friday
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
Lexington Avenue  from 20th Street to p.m. Monday through  154      11-18-2004
                  25th Street         Friday
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
Montgomery Avenue from 25th Street to p.m. Monday through  154;     11-18-2004;
                  26th Street         Friday               65, 2023 5-26-2023
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00
20th Street       from Lexington      p.m. Monday through  21;      3-2-1995;
                  Avenue to Hilton    Friday               154      11-18-2004
                  Avenue
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00
21st Street       from Lexington      p.m. Monday through  21;      3-2-1995;
                  Avenue to Hilton    Friday               154      11-18-2004
                  Avenue
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
22nd Street       from Lexington      p.m. Monday through  154;     11-18-2004;
                  Avenue to Hilton    Friday               65, 2023 5-26-2023
                  Avenue
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
23rd Street       from Lexington      p.m. Monday through  154;     11-18-2004;
                  Avenue to Hilton    Friday               65, 2023 5-26-2023
                  Avenue
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
24th Street       from Lexington      p.m. Monday through  154;     11-18-2004;
                  Avenue to Hilton    Friday               65, 2023 5-26-2023
                  Avenue
                  Designated portions 7:00 a.m. to 7:00    21;      3-2-1995;
25th Street       from Lexington      p.m. Monday through  154;     11-18-2004;
                  Avenue to Hilton    Friday               65, 2023 5-26-2023
                  Avenue
 
   (B)   Exceptions. Persons operating utility vehicles making inspections or
repairs, home health personnel, and other businesses or individuals providing a
service to a resident in the zone for short periods of time. Vehicles must be
properly identified and marked.
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. XI) (Ord. 162, passed 12-2-2004; Ord. 65, 2023,
passed 5-26-2023)
SCHEDULE XI. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING STREET SWEEPING SCHEDULE.
   The following areas are established as no parking zones during the time
periods established for street sweeping:
   (A)   Sweeper #1.
      (1)   (Gold on Map) (2 signs per block).
Day Location Time Period Ord. Date Passed
Day    Location                        Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
Sunday North side of Greenup Avenue;   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 12th Street
       South side of Winchester
Sunday Avenue; 25th Street to 12th     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
Sunday North side of Carter Avenue;    11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 12th Street
Sunday North side of Central Avenue;   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 12th Street
Sunday North side of Bath Avenue; 17th 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to 12th Street
       South side of Montgomery
Sunday Avenue; 17th Street to 12th     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
Sunday Both sides of Lexington Avenue; 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       17th Street to 12th Street
Sunday South side of Bath Avenue; 22nd 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to 26th Street
       North side of Montgomery
Sunday Avenue; 22nd Street to 26th     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
Sunday Simeon Willis Bridge            11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
Sunday Both sides of 13th Street from  11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Lexington Avenue to the bridge
 
      (2)   (Red on Map) (2 signs per block).
Day Location Time Period Ord. Date Passed
Day    Location                        Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
Monday South side of Greenup Avenue;   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 12th Street
       North side of Winchester
Monday Avenue; 25th Street to 12th     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
Monday South side of Carter Avenue;    11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 12th Street
Monday North side of Central Avenue;   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 12th Street
Monday South side of Bath Avenue; 17th 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to 12th Street
       North side of Montgomery
Monday Avenue; 17th Street to 12th     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
       East side of 14th Street;
Monday Lexington Avenue to Greenup     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue
Monday West side of 15th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Lexington Avenue
Monday East side of 16th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Hilton Avenue to Front Street
Monday West side of 17th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Hilton Avenue
Monday West side of 18th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Central Avenue
Monday East side of 19th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Central Avenue
 
      (3)   (Aqua Green on Map) (2 signs per block).
 
Day     Location                      Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
        All streets between 12th
Tuesday Street and 7th Street from    11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
        Greenup Avenue to Carter
        Avenue
Tuesday Both sides of Winchester      11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
        Avenue 7th Street to Viaducts
Tuesday Both sides of Mall Road       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
Tuesday Both sides of Town Center     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
        Drive
Tuesday Both sides of Armco Road to   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
        city limits
Tuesday Ben Williamson Bridge         11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
 
      (4)   (Orange on Map) (2 signs per block).
 
Day       Location                    Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
          Both sides of 29th Street;
Wednesday Belmont Street to Blackburn 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          Avenue
Wednesday Both sides of Moore Street; 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          29th Street to Oakview Road
          Both sides of Oakview Road;
Wednesday Blackburn Avenue to 13th    11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          Street
Wednesday Both sides of Ramey Street; 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          13th Street to Oakview Road
 
      (5)   (Purple on Map) (2 signs per block).
 
Day      Location                      Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
         Both sides of Belmont Street;
Thursday 29th Street to Blackburn      11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         Avenue
         Both sides of Blackburn
Thursday Avenue; Belmont Street to     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         Winchester Avenue
         Both sides of Russell Street;
Thursday Gartrell Street to Blackburn  11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         Avenue
         Both sides of 43rd Street;
Thursday Winchester Avenue to Gartrell 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         Street
Thursday Both sides of Chadwick Street 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         and Emery Street
 
   (B)   Sweeper #2.
      (1)   (Blue on Map) (2 signs per block).
Day Location Time Period Ord. Date Passed
Day    Location                        Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
       West side of 14th Street;
Sunday Greenup Avenue to Lexington     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue
       East side of 15th Street;
Sunday Lexington Avenue to Front       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
Sunday West side of 16th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street. to Hilton Avenue
Sunday East side of 17th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Hilton Avenue to Front Street
Sunday East side of 18th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Hilton Avenue
Sunday West side of 19th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Central Avenue to Front Street
Sunday West side of 20th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Central Avenue
Sunday East side of 21st Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Cental Avenue to Front Street
Sunday West side of 22nd Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Hilton Avenue
Sunday West side of 23rd Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Hilton Avenue to Front Street
       East side of 24th Street;
Sunday Winchester Avenue to Hilton     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue
Sunday East side of 25th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Hilton Avenue to Greenup Avenue
Sunday East side of 26th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Lexington Avenue to Bath Avenue
       West side of 27th Street;
Sunday Winchester Avenue to Carter     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue
Sunday East side of 28th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Greenup Avenue to Carter Avenue
Sunday Both sides of Lexington Avenue; 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       17th Street to 29th Street
Sunday South Side of Carter Avenue;    11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 29th Street
 
      (2)   (Yellow on Map) (2 signs per block).
Day Location Time Period Ord. Date Passed
Day    Location                        Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
Monday West side of 20th Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Central Avenue
Monday East side of 21st Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Central Avenue
Monday East side of 22nd Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Lexington Avenue
Monday East side of 23rd Street; Front 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street to Lexington Avenue
       West side of 24th Street;
Monday Winchester Avenue to Lexington  11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue
Monday West side of 25th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Greenup Avenue to Hilton Avenue
Monday West side of 26th Street; Bath  11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue to Lexington Avenue
       East side of 27th Street;
Monday Winchester Avenue to Carter     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Avenue
Monday West side of 28th Street;       11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Greenup Avenue to Carter Avenue
Monday Both sides of 29th Street;      11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Front Street to Belmont Street
Monday North side of Carter Avenue;    11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 29th Street
Monday Both sides of Greenup Avenue;   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       25th Street to 33rd Street
       Both sides of Winchester
Monday Avenue; 25th Street to 33rd     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
       Street
 
      (3)   (Gray on Map) (2 signs per block).
 
Day     Location                      Time Period           Ord.    Date Passed
Tuesday Both sides of Central Avenue; 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.  52-1996 6-6-1996
        12th Street to 6th Street
        Both sides of 6th Street;
Tuesday Central Avenue to Blackburn   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.  52-1996 6-6-1996
        Avenue
        Both sides of Blackburn
Tuesday Avenue; Roberts Drive to 13th 11:00 p.m.- 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
        Street
        Both sides of Pollard Road;
Tuesday 13th Street to Blackburn      11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.  52-1996 6-6-1996
        Avenue
        Both sides of 12th Street;
Tuesday Carter Avenue to McKinley     11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.  52-1996 6-6-1996
        Street
        Both sides of 13th Street;
Tuesday Lexington Avenue to Blackburn 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.  52-1996 6-6-1996
        Avenue
 
      (4)   (Lt. Blue on Map) (2 signs per block).
 
Day       Location                   Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
          Both sides of Blackburn
Wednesday Avenue; Belmont Street to  11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          13th Street
          Both sides of 13th Street;
Wednesday Blackburn Avenue to Stella 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          Drive
          Both sides of 29th Street;
Wednesday Blackburn Avenue to Beech  11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
          Street
 
      (5)   (Pink on Map) (2 signs per block).
 
Day      Location                      Time Period          Ord.    Date Passed
         Both sides of Winchester
Thursday Avenue; 33rd Street to 55th   11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         Street
Thursday Both sides of Greenup Avenue; 11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m. 52-1996 6-6-1996
         32nd Street to 35th Street
         Maintenance of sweepers:
         Change main brooms, gutter
         brooms, rubber shoes, adjust
         belts and chains and the like
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sch. XII)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   GARBAGE, SOLID WASTE, RUBBISH AND WEEDS
      
94.   NOISE CONTROL
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
99.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
      
100.   ASHLAND CEMETERY
      
101.   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Cruelty to animals
   
90.02   Animals grazing on public ways
   
90.03   Fowl running at large
Licensing of Animals and Rabies Control
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Enforcement
   
90.17   Licensing of dogs
   
90.18   Tag and collar for dogs
   
90.19   Confinement of certain dogs
   
90.20   Restraint; areas prohibited
   
90.21   Vicious or wild animals
   
90.22   Impoundment
   
90.23   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.24   Rabies vaccination
   
90.25   Rabies control
   
90.26   Reports of bite cases
   
90.27   Responsibilities of veterinarians
   
90.28   Investigation
   
90.29   Owner responsibility
   
90.30   Interference
   
90.31   Records
   
90.32   Community cat population/management of community cat population
   
90.33   City Animal Control Officers
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall beat or otherwise injure or misuse a horse or other animal
to an immoderate, cruel or unnecessary degree. No person shall leave or cause
to be left any wounded, maimed, diseased or worn out horse or mule on any
street, alley or lot, or on the commons, to die a lingering death. No person
shall leave a horse or other animal fastened out in the open, exposed to severe
cold or intense heat for an unnecessary length of time.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the second degree, a misdemeanor, see KRS 525.130
§ 90.02 ANIMALS GRAZING ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hitch, stake or tether any domestic
animal along or on any of the streets, alleys or public ways of the city for
the purpose of grazing.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any chickens,
turkeys or other fowl to run at large within the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
LICENSING OF ANIMALS AND RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person or persons employed by the city as an
enforcement officer or officers.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Boyd County Animal Shelter or any other facility designated
by the Dog Warden to impound and care for a dog picked up by the Dog Warden for
a violation of this subchapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
property of its owner and not restrained by leash with a maximum length of ten
feet, or otherwise properly restrained.
   CARETAKER. Any person or organization who participates in trap-neuter-return
(TNR) and/or who regularly provides care to a community cat.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any cat or kitten that has no apparent owner or
identification and is free roaming.
   EUTHANASIA. Death brought about by any method which produces instant loss of
consciousness and results in painless death.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this subchapter if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal
known to have been infected with rabies.
   FARM ANIMAL. A farm animal is any horse, mule, cow, goat, pig, rabbit,
turkey, chicken or other animal or fowl commonly found on a farm.
   KENNEL. Any person engaged in the commercial business of breeding, buying,
selling or boarding dogs, and/or who owns, harbors or keeps five or more dogs
over the age of four months.
   NUISANCE. An animal shall be considered a nuisance if it: damages, soils,
defiles or defecates on private property other than the owner’s or on public
walks, public areas, parks, and recreation areas unless such waste is
immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner; causes unsanitary,
dangerous or offensive conditions; causes a disturbance by noisemaking, or
molests, attacks or interferes with persons or domestic or farm animals. Any
unleashed and/or unvaccinated dog, and any unvaccinated cat shall be considered
a nuisance.
   OWNED CAT. Any cat that is regularly fed and sheltered in that same person’s
habitation.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal or who keeps or
harbors any animal or who has an animal in his or her care or custody.
   PARKS. Parks shall be defined as Central Park, Oliverio Park, Dawson Pool
Park, Riverfront Park, Spring Park and Southside Park.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
legal entity.
   QUALIFIED PERSON. A person granted a permit by the Secretary for Human
Resources to vaccinate animals against rabies and may include owners or
operators of licensed kennels.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this
subchapter if it is controlled by a leash, confined within a vehicle being
driven or parked on the streets, confined within the property limits of its
owner or keeper or with the consent of the property owner, or confined within a
crate or cage.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (TNR). The method of managing community cats by humanely
trapping, altering, vaccinating, ear tipping, returning the community cat to
the location where they were trapped where the community cats will be provided
with long-term care by a caretaker.
   VETERINARIAN. A licensed practitioner of veterinary medicine.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks and injures or bites and injures a
human being or domesticated animal without provocation, or which, because of
temperament, conditioning or training has a known or exhibited propensity to
bite and injure human beings or domesticated animals, or which constitutes a
physical threat to humans or domestic animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any member of the animal kingdom including those born or raised
in captivity except the following: human beings, domestic dogs (excluding
hybrids with wolves, coyotes, or jackals), domestic cats (excluding hybrids
with ocelots or margays), farm animals, rodents, any hybrid animal that is part
wild, and captive bred species of common cage birds.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Animal Control
Officer of the city or Boyd County or any other law enforcement officer of the
city, county or Commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.17 LICENSING OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog within the city limits
unless such dog is licensed as herein provided. Written application for such
license shall be made with the City Cashier or such other agents as shall be
designated by the City Manager, and shall state the name and address of the
owner and the name, breed, color, age and sex of the dog. The license fee shall
be paid at the time of making application, a numbered receipt given to the
applicant, and a numbered tag shall be issued to the owner.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each dog over the age of four months shall
be: unneutered dog, $10; and neutered dog, $5. From the license fee collected
by the city, $2.50 from each fee shall be paid to the account designated by the
Boyd Fiscal Court for payment of the county license required by KRS 258.135 and
other related costs which will be incurred by the Boyd County Animal Shelter.
   (C)   Application shall be made within 30 days after obtaining a dog over
four months of age.
   (D)   License fees shall not be required for dogs certified as:
      (1)   Seeing eye dogs;
      (2)   Dogs to aid the hearing impaired; or
      (3)   Specially trained dogs used to assist handicapped persons. Proof of
vaccination must be shown to receive the free license tag.
   (E)   Every person engaged in the commercial business of buying, selling,
breeding or boarding, and who owns, harbors or keeps five or more dogs in a
kennel shall pay an annual license fee of $100, excluding veterinarians.
   (F)   All dog licenses and kennel licenses shall be issued for one year
effective July 1 each year. Dogs that come into the city after July 1 shall be
required to be licensed within 30 days.
   (G)   No kennel licenses shall be issued except whereby the commercial
business operation is consistent with the zoning ordinance of the city, and no
issuance to a commercial business not permitted by the zoning ordinance shall
be valid.
   (H)   In the event that a license tag issued for a dog shall be lost, the
owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the payment of $2.
   (I)   If there is a change in ownership of a dog or kennel during the
license year, the new owner may have the current license transferred to his or
her name upon the payment of a transfer fee of $2.
   (J)   No person shall use for any dog a license receipt, or license tag
issued for another dog.
   (K)   No license shall be issued for any dog unless and until the person
applying for such license shall have furnished a certificate of a veterinarian
or other qualified person showing that such dog or dogs has been or have been
inoculated for rabies within one year before the application for such license
is made. This provision shall apply also to the issuance of a kennel license.
   (L)   The Animal Control Officer may issue a violation to the owner of any
dog not properly licensed under the provisions of this subchapter. The fine for
no license shall be $10. The owner has five working days to secure the license
and pay this fine to the City Cashier or he or she will be cited to court to
answer charges of violation of this subchapter pursuant to KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross reference:
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 157
§ 90.18 TAG AND COLLAR FOR DOGS.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provisions of §
90.17, there shall be issued to the owner a numbered tag, stamped with the
number and the year for which the license is issued. The shape or design of
such tag shall be changed from year to year.
   (B)   Every owner is required to see that the tag is securely fastened to
the dog’s collar or harness, which must be worn by the dog at all times.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in a building or secure
enclosure or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel in such manner that
such female dog cannot come in contact with another animal except for breeding
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 RESTRAINT; AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Dogs shall be prohibited from running at large and from being present
in all city parks and school grounds and/or city and/or school property within
the city. Exceptions to this prohibition include:
      (1)   Dogs while on a leash and fully under the control of the person
having custody of the dog while in Riverfront Park, Spring Park and outside the
perimeter of Central Park as defined by the area between the sidewalk and the
curb;
      (2)   Dogs while on a leash and/or under the control of the person having
custody of the dog while in that area of Southside Park located on Ballard
Street designated as a dog park/dog run; and
      (3)   Those dogs specifically exempt from licensing as listed in §
90.17(D).
   (B)   Cats, as determined by their behavior, including running at large, and
complaints made to be a nuisance, can be picked up by the Animal Control
Officer for proper disposition.
   (C)   Farm animals, except horses, are prohibited from being at large.
Horses must be under direct control of the responsible person or owner and
properly restrained.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 VICIOUS OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to possess or have custody of a vicious animal as
defined within this subchapter within the city.
   (B)   No person shall own, possess, or have custody on his or her premises
any wild or vicious animal for display, training or exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee.
   (C)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet.
   (D)   Such action shall constitute a violation of this provision by any
person owning or having custody of such animal. However, if the animal in
question has bitten or injured a human being or domesticated animal on a prior
occasion which resulted in the citation of the owner or party in charge of the
animal, then such person shall be charged with a Class A misdemeanor, and the
animal, at the order of the court, shall be euthanized. If the owner or
custodian of an animal has been previously convicted of having a vicious
animal, such conviction shall be offered as prima facie evidence of the
animal’s viciousness. Nothing contained in the provision shall prevent
prosecution of the owner or custodian of an animal which has committed an
attack upon a human being which warrants prosecution under any applicable
provisions of the Kentucky Penal Code for a felony.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog or farm animal found running at large or a cat found to be a
nuisance shall be taken up by the Animal Control Officer and impounded in the
Boyd County Animal Shelter, and there confined in a humane manner for a period
of not less than seven working days. It may thereafter be disposed of in a
humane manner at the discretion of the said authority if not claimed by its
owner except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Boyd County Animal Shelter may in its discretion transfer title to
any animal held by it to the Humane Society after the legal detention period
has expired and the animal has not been claimed by its owner. In the event of
such transfer of title, it is expressly understood that the Humane Society
shall pay for each such animal’s food until it shall be removed from the Boyd
County Animal Shelter.
   (C)   When a dog or farm animal is found running at large or a cat is found
to be a nuisance in the city and its ownership is known or can be determined by
the Animal Control Officer, such animal need not be impounded and may be
returned to the owner, but the Animal Control Officer will issue the owner a
citation with a fine of $10 to be paid to the City Cashier within five working
days. The Animal Control Officer may, at his or her discretion, cite the owner
of such animal to appear in court to answer to charges of violation of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Immediately upon impounding a dog/cat or farm animal, the Animal
Control Officer shall make every possible effort to notify the owner of such
animal impounded and inform such owner of the conditions whereby he or she may
regain custody of such animal.
   (E)   Some of the animals regulated under this subchapter may not be
reasonably impounded at the Animal Control Shelter or reasonably impounded for
a period of seven working days. In that event, the Animal Control Officer,
after making a reasonable attempt to notify the owner of such animal, may
humanely destroy such animal in a manner approved by the City Manager.
   (F)   The Animal Control Officer may take into custody wild animals which
are vicious, at large and/or creating a nuisance. Such creatures may be
humanely destroyed or released in a manner approved by the City Manager and
consistent with Commonwealth and federal laws. If such creatures bite a person,
they shall be treated in a manner consistent with §
90.25 to control rabies.
   (G)   The Animal Control Officer shall not accept animals from their owners
for voluntary impoundment and later disposition.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.23 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this subchapter and not
reclaimed by its owner within seven working days may be humanely destroyed by
the Boyd County Animal Shelter or placed in the custody of some person deemed
to be a responsible and suitable owner who will agree to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter and such other regulations as shall be fixed by
the city.
   (B)   Any animal impounded hereunder may be reclaimed as herein provided
upon payment by the owner to the Boyd County Animal Shelter of the sums due for
confinement of such animal based upon a fee schedule established by the Boyd
County Animal Shelter.
   (C)   Any animal otherwise impounded hereunder may be reclaimed as herein
provided upon payment by the owner to the City of Ashland or the Boyd County
Animal Shelter for any sums expended for confinement of such animal. Any
responsible person obtaining the release of any animal requiring an animal
license and/or vaccination under other provisions of this subchapter shall
obtain such license and/or vaccination for such animal within five days or be
considered in violation of this subchapter and will be cited to court to answer
charges of violation of this subchapter pursuant to KRS 534.040.
   (D)   In the event the city finds an animal to be suffering, it shall have
the right forthwith to remove or cause to have removed, any such animals to a
safe place for care at the owner’s expense or to euthanize them when necessary
to prevent further suffering.
   (E)   Disposal of an animal by any method specified herein does not relieve
the owner of liability and any accrued charges.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.24 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat over four months of
age for more than 30 days within the city unless such dog or cat is vaccinated
and licensed. The provisions of this section do not apply to animals owned by a
licensed research facility or held in a veterinary medical facility or
government operated or licensed animal shelter, or a nonresident keeping a dog
or cat within the city for no longer than 60 days.
   (B)   All dogs and cats shall be vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian or other qualified person, in accordance with the latest
Compendium of Animal Rabies Vaccines and Recommendations for Immunization
published by the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians.
Proof of vaccination shall be provided to the Animal Control Officer upon
demand within a reasonable time period or in no case later than five days after
such demand.
   (C)   A certificate of vaccination shall be issued to the owner of each
animal vaccinated on a form recommended by the Compendium. Each owner shall
also receive a durable vaccination tag indicating the year in which it was
issued.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer may issue a violation in the amount of $10
payable to the City Cashier within five working days to any owner who violates
the provisions of this section. If the violation is not paid within five
working days, a citation will be issued. The citation will be prosecuted as a
violation under the provisions of KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 90.24) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Control Officer and shall thereupon be securely quarantined at the
direction of the Animal Control Officer for a period of ten days at the Boyd
County Animal Shelter or other site selected by the city and shall not be
released from such quarantine except by written permission of the Animal
Control Officer upon complying with payments of license fees and quarantine
costs. Solely at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, such quarantine
may be at a veterinary hospital approved by the Animal Control Officer if the
animal is sick or injured. In the case of stray animals, or in the cases of
animals whose ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at the Boyd
County Animal Shelter, or other site selected by the city.
   (B)   The owner, upon demand made by the Animal Control Officer, shall
forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human or which is suspected
of having been exposed to rabies for supervised quarantine, which expense shall
be borne by the owner and may be reclaimed by the owner, if adjudged free of
rabies, upon payment of fees set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately send the head of such
animal to the State Health Department of pathological examination and shall
notify the proper public health officer of reports of human contacts with the
diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   (D)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
Animal Control Officer shall recommend a city-wide quarantine for a period of
30 days and upon the invoking of such quarantine, no dog or cat shall be taken
into the streets or permitted to be in the streets during such period of
quarantine.
   (E)   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein mentioned, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed,
or, at the owner’s option and expense, shall be treated for rabies infection by
a licensed veterinarian, or held under 30 days quarantine by the owner.
   (F)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of the quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended
for an additional period of time, not to exceed six months.
   (G)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a
human, except as herein provided, nor remove same from the city limits without
written permission from the Animal Control Officer.
   (H)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrender to the Animal Control Officer.
   (I)   The Animal Control Officer shall direct the disposition of any animal
found to be infected with rabies.
   (J)   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefore by the Animal
Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.25) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate rabies control program, see KRS 258.087
§ 90.26 REPORTS OF BITE CASES.
   It shall be the duty of every physician, or other practitioner, to report to
the Animal Control Officer the names and addresses of persons treated for bites
inflicted by animals, together with such other information as will be helpful
in rabies control.
(Prior Code, § 90.26) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Physicians to report persons bitten by dogs or other animals, see KRS
258.065
§ 90.27 RESPONSIBILITIES OF VETERINARIANS.
   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Animal
Control Officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her as a
rabies suspect.
(Prior Code, § 90.27) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see 90.99
§ 90.28 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this subchapter
and to enforce its provisions, the Animal Control Officer or any police officer
is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which an animal is kept or
harbored and to demand the exhibition by the owner of such animal or the proof
of vaccination for such animal. It is further provided that the Animal Control
Officer may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel
or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal and to take possession of
such animal, when, in his or her opinion, it requires humane treatment.
   (B)   The minimum for the humane keeping of animals requires that the animal
shall have:
      (1)   Housing to provide protection against weather extremes sufficient
to allow the animal to maintain normal body temperature and to keep the animal
dry;
      (2)   Food free from contamination and of sufficient quantity to meet
normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the animal;
      (3)   Fresh water at all times;
      (4)   Housing areas or tethered spaces are to be free of accumulated
waste and debris, free of standing or accumulated water, and all tethers
utilized must be at least ten feet in length or three times the length of the
animal, whichever is greater;
      (5)   Each dog or cat four months or older shall be vaccinated for
rabies;
      (6)   All animals shall be kept in reasonable physical condition and
shall be kept free of open sores or wounds on the animal’s body; and
      (7)   All dogs and cats shall be secured by an adequate collar. No animal
while tethered in place shall be secured by a tow or log chain or a choke,
pinch, prong or chain collar.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer shall maintain a census of licensed dogs
within the city and shall on a regular basis conduct a census of the city dog
population. The Animal Control Officer shall notify all persons subject to this
subchapter of its provisions, as necessary, and issue citations for
noncompliance, as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 90.28) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.29 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No animal shall be allowed to cause a nuisance. The owner of every
animal shall be held responsible for every behavior of such animal under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excrement deposited by his or her animal on public walks and/or public or
private property.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer may issue a violation in the amount of $10,
payable to the City Cashier within five working days to any owner who violates
the provisions of this section. If the violation is not paid within five
working days, a citation will be issued. The citation will be prosecuted as a
violation under the provisions of KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 90.29) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest the Animal Control Officer
in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to release any animal in
the custody of the Animal Control Officer except as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 90.30) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep or cause to
be kept accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and disposition of all
animals coming into its custody.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep or cause to
be kept accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported and
investigation of same.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep or cause to
be kept accurate and detailed records of all violations issued and all
citations to court.
(Prior Code, § 90.31) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.32 COMMUNITY CAT POPULATION/MANAGEMENT OF COMMUNITY CAT POPULATION.
   (A)   A trap-neuter-return program will be developed by animal rescue groups
to address the issues presented by feral and other community cats. To this end,
the program will recognize that there are caretakers of community cats.
   (B)   A trap-neuter-return program will permit animal rescue groups to
engage in the trapping of community cats for the purpose of sterilization,
vaccination, ear-tipping for easy identification and any provision of other
necessary medical care for community cats. Boyd County Animal Shelter (BCAS)
may work with its designee to implement and/or administer the BCAS’s trap-
neuter-return program.
   (C)   A caretaker providing care for a community cat(s) may offer certain
necessities on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, proper
nutrition of food and water as well as medical care as needed. If medical care
is unavailable or too expensive, a caregiver should contact animal rescue
groups for assistance to prevent the suffering of a community cat.
   (D)   If the requirements identified in division (C) of this section are
met, the caretaker is exempt from licensing and other provisions of this
subchapter that apply to owned cats.
(Prior Code, § 90.32) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
§ 90.33 CITY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   There shall be such positions as City Animal Control Officer(s) as
determined by the City Commission, whose duties and responsibilities shall be
to enforce the provisions of this subchapter within the corporate limits of the
city, in assistance of and in cooperation with the Boyd County Dog Warden. The
position(s) shall have the general duties existing in the current city pay and
classification plan. All animals picked up by the City Animal Control Officer
(s) shall be taken to the Boyd County Animal Shelter operated by Boyd Fiscal
Court, unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.33) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
Cross reference:
   Personnel policies, classification plan, see
Ch. 36
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, other than §
90.21, shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a fine
not less than $25 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040(2).
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 194, 2021, passed 12-10-2021)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Prohibited practices by real estate operators, brokers, salesmen, or
their employees and agents
   
91.04   Prohibited practices by financial institutions or their employees
Reasonable Accommodation
   
91.15   Purpose
   
91.16   Applicability
   
91.17   Notice to the public of availability of accommodation process
   
91.18   Requesting reasonable accommodation
   
91.19   Reviewing authority
   
91.20   Required findings
   
91.21   Written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation
   
91.22   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the city to cooperate closely with the Kentucky
Commission on Human Rights in order to safeguard all individuals within the
city from discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, handicap, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status
or familial status in connection with housing; thereby to protect their
interest in personal dignity and freedom from humiliation, to make available to
the city their full productive capacities, to achieve a condition in which
individuals of similar income levels have a like range of housing choices
available to them regardless of their race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, handicap, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status or
familial status.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 29-2013, passed 3-7-2013)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, as defined in KRS 344.010, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Kentucky Commission on Human Rights.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Commission.
   CREDIT TRANSACTION. Any open or closed end credit transaction whether in the
nature of a loan, retail installment transaction, credit card issue or charge,
or otherwise, and whether for personal or for business purposes, in which a
service, finance or interest charge is imposed, or which provides for repayment
in scheduled payments, when such credit is extended in the course of the
regular course of any trade or commerce, including, but not limited to,
transactions by banks, savings and loan associations, or other financial
lending institutions of whatever nature, stock brokers, or by a merchant or
mercantile establishment which as part of its ordinary business permits or
provides that payment for purchases of property or services therefrom may be
deferred.
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to an individual:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of the major life activities of the individual;
         (b)   A record of such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (2)   Persons with current or past controlled substances abuse or alcohol
abuse problems and persons excluded from coverage by the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., shall be excluded
from this section.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other
act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
or persons, or the aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing or compelling thereof
made unlawful under this chapter.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under KRS 344.360,
344.367, 344.370, 344.380 or 344.680.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
and are domiciled with:
         (a)   A parent or another person having legal custody of the
individual or individuals; or
         (b)   The designee of a parent or other person having custody, with
the written permission of the parent or other person.
      (2)   The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A bank, banking organization, mortgage company,
insurance company, or other lender to whom application is made for financial
assistance for the purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation,
repair, maintenance, or improvement of real property, or an individual employed
by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Includes improved and unimproved property and means
any building, structure, lot or portion thereof, which is used or occupied, or
is intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied as the home or
residence of one or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for
sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building or
structure.
   LICENSING AGENCY. Any public or private organization which has as one of its
duties the issuing of licenses or the setting of standards which an individual
must hold or must meet as a condition to practicing a particular trade or
profession or to obtaining certain employment within the state or as a
condition to competing effectively with an individual who does hold a license
or meet the standards.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, labor organizations, joint
apprenticeship committees, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, fiduciaries,
receivers or other legal or commercial entity; the state, any of its political
or civil subdivisions or agencies.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESMAN. Any individual, whether licensed
or not, who, on behalf of others, for a fee, commission, salary or other
valuable consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving
or collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, or leases
real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or who negotiates
or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others such an activity; or who
advertises or holds himself or herself out as engaged in these activities; or
who negotiates or attempts to negotiate on behalf of others a loan secured by
mortgage or other encumbrance upon a transfer of real estate, or who is engaged
in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for collection of a
fee in connection with a contract whereby he or she undertakes to promote the
sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real estate through its listing in
a publication issued primarily for this purpose; or any person employed by or
acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL ESTATE OPERATOR. Any individual or combination of individuals, labor
organizations, joint apprenticeship committees, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies,
trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers or
other legal or commercial entity, the county, or any of its agencies, that is
engaged in the business of selling, purchasing, exchanging, renting or leasing
real estate, or the improvements thereon, including options, or that derives
income, in whole or in part, from the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease
of real estate; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of
these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums and hereditaments, corporeal
and incorporeal, or any interest in the above.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let or otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 29-2013, passed 3-7-2013)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED PRACTICES BY REAL ESTATE OPERATORS, BROKERS, SALESMEN, OR
THEIR EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS.
   As provided in KRS 344.360, it is an unlawful practice for a real estate
operator, or for a real estate broker, real estate salesman or an individual
employed by or acting on behalf of any of these:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, exchange, rent or lease, or otherwise deny to or
withhold, real property from any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status familial status, disability
or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person because of race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, disability or national origin in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, exchange, rental, or lease of real property or in the
furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to purchase, rent
or lease real property from any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status familial status, disability
or national origin;
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, rental or lease of real property
to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
disability or national origin;
   (E)   To represent to any person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental or lease when it is so available, or to refuse to
permit any person to inspect real property because of his or her race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital
status, disability or national origin;
   (F)   To make, print, circulate, post or mail or cause to be printed,
circulated, posted or mailed an advertisement or sign, or to use a form of
application for the purchase, rental or lease of real property, or to make a
record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase, rental or lease
of real property, which indicates, directly or indirectly, a limitation,
specification, or discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status or
national origin or an intent to make such a limitation, specification, or
discrimination;
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property
for sale, rental or lease with the understanding that any person may be
discriminated against in the sale, rental or lease of that real property or in
the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith because of his
or her race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital
status, familial status, disability or national origin;
   (H)   To otherwise deny to or withhold real property from any person because
of his or her race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability, or
national origin;
   (I)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a housing accommodation to any buyer or renter because of
a disability of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that housing
accommodation after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that buyer or renter.
   (J)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such housing accommodation, because of a
disability of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that housing
accommodation after it is sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (K)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by a
person, if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a housing accommodation; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family housing accommodations for first occupancy after January 1, 1993, a
failure to design and construct those housing accommodations in a manner
ensuring that they have at least one entrance on an accessible route unless
impractical to do so because of the terrain or unusual characteristics of the
site. Housing accommodations with a building entrance on an accessible route
shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the housing
accommodations shall be readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the housing accommodations shall be sufficiently wide to allow
passage by disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the housing accommodations shall contain the
following features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the housing
accommodation;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (L)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability for
physically disabled persons, (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1 - 1986”) suffices
to satisfy the requirements of division (K)(3)(c) of this section.
   (M)   As used in division (K), the term COVERED MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING
ACCOMMODATION means:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of two or more
units.
   (N)   Nothing in this section requires that a housing accommodation be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 29-2013, passed 3-7-2013)
§ 91.04 PROHIBITED PRACTICES BY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS OR THEIR EMPLOYEES.
   As provided in KRS 344.370 it is an unlawful practice for a financial
institution or an individual employed on behalf of a financial institution:
   (A)   To discriminate against an individual because of the race, color,
religion or national origin, familial status, sexual orientation, gender
identity, marital status, disability, sex or age of the individual or the
present or prospective owner, tenant, or occupant of the real property or of a
member, stockholder, director, officer, employee or representative of any of
these, in the granting, withholding, extending, modifying, or renewing the
rates, terms, conditions, privileges, or other provisions of financial
assistance or in the extension of services in connection therewith;
   (B)   To use a form of application for financial assistance or to make or
keep a record or inquiry in connection with applications for financial
assistance which indicate, directly or indirectly, a limitation, specification,
or discrimination as to race, color, religion, familial status, disability, or
national origin or an intent to make such a limitation, specification, or
discrimination;
   (C)   To discriminate by refusing to give full recognition, because of sex,
to the income of each spouse or the total income and expenses of both spouses
where both spouses become or are prepared to become joint or several obligors
in real estate transactions; or
   (D)   As used in this section, the term REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION
means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a housing accommodation; or
         (b)   Secured by real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of real property except that a
person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of real property may
take into consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status or
familial status.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 29-2013, passed 3-7-2013)
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
§ 91.15 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the city, pursuant to the Federal Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988 and all other applicable federal and state law
(hereinafter “fair housing laws”), to provide individuals with disabilities
reasonable accommodation in rules, policies, practices and procedures to ensure
equal access to housing and facilitate the development of housing for
individuals with disabilities. This subchapter establishes a procedure for
making requests for reasonable accommodation in land use, zoning and building
regulations, policies, practices and procedures of the city to comply fully
with the intent and purpose of fair housing laws.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.16 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION IN THE LAND USE AND ZONING CONTEXT means
providing individuals with disabilities or developers of housing for people
with disabilities, flexibility in the application of land use and zoning and
building regulations, policies, practices and procedures, or even waiving
certain requirements, when it is necessary to eliminate barriers to housing
opportunities.
   (B)   An INDIVIDUAL WITH A DISABILITY is someone who has a physical or
mental impairment that limits one or more major life activities; anyone who is
regarded as having such impairment; or anyone with a record of such impairment.
   (C)   A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any individual
with a disability, his or her representative, or a developer or provider of
housing for individuals with disabilities, when the application of a land use,
zoning or building regulation, policy, practice or procedure acts as a barrier
to fair housing opportunities.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.17 NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC OF AVAILABILITY OF ACCOMMODATION PROCESS.
   Notice of the availability of reasonable accommodation shall be prominently
displayed at public information counters in the Department of Community and
Economic Development and on the city’s official website, advising the public of
the availability of the procedure for eligible individuals. Forms for
requesting reasonable accommodation shall be available to the public in the
Department of Community and Economic Development and on the city’s official
website.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.18 REQUESTING REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
   (A)   In order to make housing available to an individual with a disability,
any eligible person as defined in §
91.16 may request a reasonable accommodation in land use, zoning and building
regulations, policies, practices and procedures.
   (B)   Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be in writing and provide
the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the individual(s) requesting reasonable
accommodation;
      (2)   Name and address of the property owner(s);
      (3)   Address of the property for which accommodation is requested;
      (4)   Description of the requested accommodation and the regulation(s),
policy or procedure for which accommodation is sought; and
      (5)   Reason that the requested accommodation may be necessary for the
individual(s) with the disability to use and enjoy the dwelling.
   (C)   Any information identified by an applicant as confidential shall be
retained in a manner so as to respect the privacy rights of the applicant and
shall not be made available for public inspection except as required by court
order and applicable Kentucky law.
   (D)   A request for reasonable accommodation in regulations, policies,
practices and procedures may be filed at any time that the accommodation may be
necessary to ensure equal access to housing. A reasonable accommodation does
not affect an individual’s obligations to comply with other applicable
regulations not at issue in the requested accommodation.
   (E)   If an individual needs assistance in making the request for reasonable
accommodation, the city will provide assistance to ensure that the process is
accessible.
(Prior Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.19 REVIEWING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be reviewed by the Board
of Zoning Adjustment (hereinafter “BZA”), using the criteria set forth in §
91.20.
   (B)   The BZA shall issue a written decision on a request for reasonable
accommodation within 60 days of the date of the application and may either
grant, grant with modifications or deny a request for reasonable accommodation
in accordance with the required findings set forth in §
91.20.
   (C)   If necessary to reach a determination on the request for reasonable
accommodation, the reviewing authority may request further information from the
applicant consistent with fair housing laws, specifying in detail the
information that is required. In the event that a request for additional
information is made, the 60-day period to issue a decision is stayed until the
applicant responds to the request.
(Prior Code, § 91.19) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.20 REQUIRED FINDINGS.
   The written decision to grant, grant with modifications, or deny a request
for reasonable accommodation shall be consistent with fair housing laws and
based on the following factors:
   (A)   Whether the housing, which is the subject of the request for
reasonable accommodation, will be used by an individual with disabilities
protected under fair housing laws;
   (B)   Whether the requested accommodation is necessary to make housing
available to an individual with disabilities protected under the fair housing
laws;
   (C)   Whether the requested accommodation would impose an undue financial or
administrative burden on the city; and
   (D)   Whether the requested accommodation would require a fundamental
alteration in the nature of the city’s land use and zoning or building program.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.21 WRITTEN DECISION ON THE REQUEST FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
   (A)   The written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation shall
explain in detail the basis of the decision, including the BZA’s findings on
the criteria set forth in §
91.20. All written decisions shall give notice of the applicant’s right to
appeal and to request reasonable accommodation in the appeals process as set
forth below. The notice of decision shall be sent to the applicant by certified
mail.
   (B)   The written decision of the BZA shall be final unless an applicant
appeals in accordance with this subchapter and applicable Kentucky law.
   (C)   If the BZA fails to render a written decision on the request for
reasonable accommodation within the 60-day time period allotted by §
91.19, the request shall be deemed granted.
   (D)   While a request for reasonable accommodation is pending, all laws and
regulations otherwise applicable to the property that is the subject of the
request shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
§ 91.22 APPEALS.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the date of the BZA’s final written decision, an
applicant may appeal from the action to the Boyd Circuit Court. Such appeal
shall be taken within 30 days after the final action of the BZA. Any final
action which has not been appealed within 30 days shall not be subject to
judicial review. The BZA shall be a party in any such appeal filed in the Boyd
Circuit Court.
   (B)   If an individual needs assistance in filing an appeal on an adverse
decision, the city will provide assistance to ensure that the appeals process
is accessible.
   (C)   All appeals shall contain a statement of the grounds for the appeal.
Any information identified by an applicant as confidential shall be retained in
a manner so as to respect the privacy rights of the applicant and shall not be
made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Nothing in this procedure shall preclude an aggrieved individual from
seeking any other state or federal remedy available.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 38-2019, passed 3-28-2019)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
92.02   Discharge of consumer fireworks
   
92.03   Rules and regulations for storage and sale of fireworks
   
92.04   Permit required; display of permit
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of state and national fire standards, see §
151.02
   Burning trash on flood wall, see §
131.01
Statutory reference:
   Fire prevention and protection, see KRS Chapter 227
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts and makes a part of this chapter by reference KRS
227.700 through and including KRS 227.992, including the definitions contained
therein unless the context requires otherwise. All of the provisions of KRS
227.700 to KRS 227.992 apply to the sale, storage, display, possession of
fireworks within the city, and any portion of this chapter determined to be in
conflict therewith, shall have no force or effect, and the provisions of this
chapter are intended to enhance the regulatory scheme set out in the reference
sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 34-2015, passed 3-26-2015; Ord. 155-2018, passed
11-15-2018)
§ 92.02 DISCHARGE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Persons 18 years of age or older may discharge, use, ignite, fire or
explode those consumer fireworks authorized by KRS 227.702(2) and (3) provided
that they not do so within 200 feet of any building, vehicle or person.
Fireworks, including consumer fireworks, may only be discharged or used between
the hours of noon and 11:00 p.m. from June 30 through July 4, on December 31
and/or any day on which the Paul G. Blazer High School football team plays a
game at Putnam Stadium. Such activity shall be unlawful at all other times,
dates and places within the city except as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Any person wishing to use, ignite, fire or explode those fireworks in
the city authorized by KRS Chapter 227 and this chapter on any other days shall
obtain a permit from the City Fire Chief or his or her designee with the
issuance of the permit conditioned on the applicant complying with all
applicable state statutes and regulations and this chapter. The permit
application shall be filed no later than 15 days prior to the proposed use of
the fireworks and shall be on a form provided by the city.
   (C)   The permit, if granted, shall be valid for a four-hour period on the
permitted date between the hours of noon and 11:00 p.m. Consumer fireworks, as
defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) may only be used by individuals 18 years of
age or older and shall not be ignited within 200 feet of any structure, vehicle
or any other person. Fireworks, including consumers fireworks, shall not be
ignited or discharged from a motor vehicle and shall not be ignited nor
discharged on property of another without the consent of the owner or occupant
nor on public property.
(Prior Code, § 92.11) (Ord. 155-2018, passed 11-15-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR STORAGE AND SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The storage and the sale of fireworks must be conducted in accordance
with any only in areas permitted for storage and/or retail sales under the city
zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks sold shall be limited to those as described by
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other business entity
shall offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, keep with the intent to
sell, possess, use or explode any display fireworks, except as authorized in
KRS 227.710.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may grant permits for supervised public displays of
fireworks with such public displays handled by a competent display operator.
All public displays must comply with the provisions of KRS 227.710 and no
permit shall be approved without documentation that the display has been
approved by the State Fire Marshal. The permit shall be valid only for the
specific authorized public display event, shall be valid only for the
designated permittee and shall not be transferable.
   (C)   The storage and the sale of consumer fireworks within the city must be
made within the confines of a temporary structure and such storage and sale of
consumer fireworks shall not be within or from any permanent structure.
   (D)   The storage and the retail sales of consumer fireworks shall comply
with all federal and state rules and regulations.
   (E)   All persons involved in the storage and the sale of consumer fireworks
must be 18 years of age or older.
   (F)   Sales of fireworks shall not be made to any who is not at least 18
years of age at the time of the sale.
   (G)   There shall be fire extinguishers on the premises where fireworks are
stored and/or sold pursuant to the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
1 (NFPA 1: Fire Code) and 101 (NFPA 101: Life Safety Code).
   (H)   There shall be a functioning telephone on the premises wherever
consumer fireworks are stored or sold and the telephone shall be easily
accessible at all times for the purpose of calling the Fire Department or
summoning any other needed assistance.
   (I)   There shall be no smoking permitted on the premises where consumer
fireworks are stored or offered for sale and appropriate “No Smoking” signs
shall be conspicuously displayed on the premises.
   (J)   There shall be no storage or sale of consumer fireworks within any of
the residential zones as defined in the city zoning ordinance.
   (K)   Anyone storing consumer fireworks or offering consumer fireworks for
sale shall obtain a city business privilege license and shall conspicuously
display same on the premises at all times.
   (L)   The storekeeper or vendor of fireworks shall maintain a current
inventory control sheet which shall be kept on the premises and available for
inspection at all times.
   (M)   There shall be no storage or sale of consumer fireworks on premises
which sell gasoline or petroleum products.
   (N)   There shall be no sleeping accommodations within the premises where
consumer fireworks are stored or offered for sale and no one shall be allowed
to sleep within the premises.
   (O)   The premises where consumer fireworks are stored or offered for sale
shall be available for reasonable inspection at all times by designated
authorities of the city.
   (P)   There shall be no storage or sales of consumer fireworks within 100
feet of any gasoline storage tanks or gasoline dispensing pumps.
   (Q)   All advertising of consumer fireworks for sale shall conform with the
city sign ordinance and the city zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 92.12) (Ord. 34-2015, passed 3-26-2015; Ord. 155-2018, passed
11-15-2018)
§ 92.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit for storage or the retail sale of consumer fireworks shall
be prominently displayed at all times on the premises where consumer fireworks
are stored or offered for sale and the permit shall be available for inspection
at all times.
   (B)   Due to the need to closely inspect and monitor the sale of fireworks,
the city hereby imposes fees to cover the cost of the inspection of facilities
and inspections of the sale of fireworks. The fees for permits required by this
chapter are as follows.
      (1)   There shall be no fee for the review, issuance and inspections for
the fireworks permit or for the use permit required in §
92.02.
      (2)   The fee for the review, issuance and inspections for a seasonal
fireworks retail permit and a permanent fireworks retail permit for the sale of
consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(1) shall be $25 for the initial
annual permit and the same for each annual renewal. This permit fee shall be in
addition to all other occupational license fees payable by the permittee.
      (3)   The fee for the review, issuance and inspections for a seasonal
fireworks retail permit for the sale of consumer fireworks as defined in KRS
227.702(2) and (3) shall be $1,000 annually. This permit fee shall be in
addition to all other occupational license fees payable by the permittee. If
consumers fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(1) are also sold, the total
annual shall be $1,000.
      (4)   All permits required by this chapter shall be issued by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee. All permit fees shall be payable to the City of
Ashland and are to be submitted to the city’s Finance Department located in the
City Building prior to the issuance of any permit.
(Prior Code, § 92.13) (Ord. 34-2015, passed 3-26-2015; Ord. 155-2018, passed
11-15-2018)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating §
92.02 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and subject to the monetary fine
set out in KRS 534.040.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the remaining provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both and each violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may revoke or suspend the permit of any person or
business entity that violates the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.04, including but not limited to, the failure of the permittee to comply
with §§
92.01 through
92.04 and other laws and regulations involving the sale, display or storage of
fireworks, the failure of the permittee to pay the appropriate permit fees and
other taxes and fees payable to the city, and the submission by the permittee
of an application that contains material false or untrue statements.
   (D)   Any fireworks stored, sold or used in violation of this chapter may be
removed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee in cooperation with the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to the provisions of KRS 227.750.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 34-2015, passed 3-26-2015; Ord. 155-2018, passed
11-15-2018)
CHAPTER 93: GARBAGE, SOLID WASTE, RUBBISH AND WEEDS
Section
Businesses Collecting Garbage, Refuse and Solid Waste
   
93.01   License required; proof of existing agreement
   
93.02   Vehicles required to carry license
Weeds; Accumulation of Rubbish
   
93.15   Duty of property owner
   
93.16   Prohibited weed growth; exceptions
   
93.17   Notice to remedy situation; liens
   
93.18   Disposal of fines, liens, and the like
 
   
93.99   Penalty
BUSINESSES COLLECTING GARBAGE, REFUSE AND SOLID WASTE
§ 93.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; PROOF OF EXISTING AGREEMENT.
   (A)   At the time a business engaged in collection of garbage, refuse and
solid waste (including septic tank waste) within the city applies for a
business privilege license with the city that business must provide proof of an
existing agreement with a licensed solid waste landfill permitting the waste,
refuse or garbage collection within the city can be disposed at the landfill.
   (B)   At any time the City Clerk, License Administrator or police officer
may require a representative or employee of those businesses to produce the
proof of existence of the authority to dispose of waste. Failure to produce
proof of the authority within three days shall result in a misdemeanor offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.105) (Ord. 83-1985, passed 7-16-1985; Ord. 82-2005, passed 6-
1-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO CARRY LICENSE.
   A valid copy of the city business privilege license shall be carried in all
vehicles engaged in the collection of garbage, refuse and solid waste
(including septic tank waste) and shall be shown on demand when made by the
City Clerk, License Administrator or police officer.
(Prior Code, § 93.106) (Ord. 83-1985, passed 7-16-1985; Ord. 82-2005, passed 6-
1-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEEDS; ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH
§ 93.15 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard or source of filth to develop on the land through the accumulation of
rubbish or the excessive growth thereon of weeds, like vegetation or grass.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city and the persons are required to
maintain the land so as to prevent the accumulation of rubbish and to cut or
otherwise remove the growth of weeds, like vegetation or grass so that the
public nuisance, health hazard or source of filth shall not exist.
(Prior Code, § 93.115) (Ord. 28-1962, passed 4-23-1962; Ord. 31-1972, passed 7-
5-1972; Ord. 82-2005, passed 6-1-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Property in cities becoming nuisance; abatement; lien of city for remedy,
see KRS 381.770
§ 93.16 PROHIBITED WEED GROWTH; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No owner, occupant or person having control or management
of any land within the city shall permit or maintain on any such premises or
adjacent rights-of-way any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth of grass or
other rank vegetation to a greater height than ten inches on the average; nor
any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include
Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders (any species of Cuscuta), mustards
(charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis),
wild carrot (Daucus carrots), bindweed (Convolvutus arvensis), perennial sow-
thistle (Sonchus arvensis), common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia), giant
ragweed (Ambrosia trifida), hemp dogbane (Aporynum cannabinum), wild lettuce
(Lactura scariola), common cocklebur (Xanthium pensylvancum), yellow nutsedge
(Cyperus esculentus), foxtail (Serataria sp.), pokeberry (Phytolacca
americana), multi-flora rose (Rosa multiflora), kudzu, Japanese bamboo and
poison ivy (rhus radicans), poison sumac (Rhus toxicondendron) and poison oak.
   (B)   Exemptions to the requirements contained in division (A) above.
      (1)   Excepted from the provisions of division (A) of this section are
flower gardens, plots of shrubbery, vegetable gardens, small grain plots and
farm land under cultivation. Exemption under the terms of this division (B)(1)
cannot be claimed unless the land has been cultivated and cared for in a manner
appropriate to such exempt categories.
      (2)   While owners of undeveloped parcels of land shall be required to
remove those noxious weeds as listed in division (A) of this section, the
control of the growth of grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height
than ten inches on the average, shall be required only within 100 feet of the
property line of developed parcels, within the street, alley and highway
rights-of-way adjacent to property and the first 50 feet of property in depth
adjacent to the rights- of-way.
      (3)   Developed parcels in excess of one acre shall be required to meet
the conditions of division (B)(2) of this section, and to control the growth of
grass or rank vegetation within the immediate 100 feet in any direction from
the walls of the principal building.
      (4)   The City Manager or his or her designee may grant exemption in
certain areas for the control of erosion, urban forestry and preservation of
any rare species of flora or fauna.
(Prior Code, § 93.116) (Ord. 102-1985, passed 8-9-1985; Ord. 82-2005, passed 6-
1-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 NOTICE TO REMEDY SITUATION; LIENS.
   (A) Should it be discovered that, by reason of accumulation of rubbish or
the excessive growth on land within the city of weeds, like vegetation or
grass, that a public nuisance, health hazard or source of filth has developed
on the land, the City Manager or his or her designee shall give five days’
written notice to the owner, occupant or person having control to remedy the
situation.
   (B)   If the city intends to claim a lien against the property, the notice
shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of the property as the
address appears on the current tax assessment roll of the city. On the failure
of the owner, occupant or person having control of the land to comply, the City
Manager or his or her designee is authorized to send employees of the city on
the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the City Manager or his or her designee shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to
this subchapter and shall be recorded in the office of the County Court Clerk
in the county where that property is located. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording, shall bear interest at 6% per annum
from time of recording until paid, and may be foreclosed by appropriate action
in the Circuit Court of the county in which the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 93.117) (Ord. 31-1972, passed 7-5-1972; Ord. 37-1983, passed 3-
3-1983; Ord. 82-2005, passed 6-1-2005)
§ 93.18 DISPOSAL OF FINES, LIENS, AND THE LIKE.
   All monies collected by reason of the enforcement of this subchapter,
including enforcement of liens, fines, forfeitures and court costs, with the
exception of the costs collected for the use and benefit of the Boyd County Law
Library, shall be paid into the General Fund of the city to defray the expense
of general government.
(Prior Code, § 93.118) (Ord. 31-1972, passed 7-5-1972; Ord. 37-1983, passed 3-
3-1983; Ord. 82-2005, passed 6-1-2005)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than the maximum
fine enumerated in KRS 534.040 for a misdemeanor offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.999) (Ord. 68-2015, passed 6-26-2015)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Unlawful conduct
   
94.03   Standards for noise pollution
   
94.04   Exemptions
   
94.05   Special variances
   
94.06   Abatement
   
94.07   Citation
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION ACTIVITY. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, structure or roadway, or any
utility related construction, for which all necessary and proper governmental
permits have been obtained.
   HIGHWAY. Any road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, lane, court, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them.
   NOISE. The intensity, frequency, duration and character of sound or sounds
from a source or sources.
   PARKING LOTS. Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately owned, and shall include, but
not be limited to: parks, shopping centers, restaurants, entertainment centers,
car washes, banking or financial institutions, whether publicly or privately
owned, operated or controlled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Capable of being distinctly heard by a person with normal
hearing Unreasonable period of time means a period of time in excess of that
necessary to accomplish.
      (1)   A danger warning with a horn or other audible signaling device; or
      (2)   The preservation or protection of property or the life, safety or
welfare of a person or persons by use of an audible signaling device.
   ROADWAY. That portion of the highway designed for ordinary use for vehicular
travel, including the berm, shoulder or any public property adjacent thereto.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD, HARSH OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any noise plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from its point of origination or emanation.
   VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, on, or by which, any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn on any highway, roadway or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008)
§ 94.02 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue
or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonably loud, harsh, excessive or
unnecessary or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others unless the
making and continuing of the noise is necessary for the protection or
preservation of property or the life, health or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any highway, roadway, parking
lot or other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable
period of time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo, or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in any vehicle
in such a manner as to create an unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise,
that disturbs the peace, quiet or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the
peace, quiet and comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume than
is necessary for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are
voluntarily in the room, chamber or vehicle in which any above described
machine, device or musical instrument is located. The operation of any such
machine, device or musical instrument in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is
located, shall be prima facia evidence of a violation of this section;
      (4)   Use or operate any vehicle on any highway, roadway or parking lot
in such a manner as to produce any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise,
or to discharge into the open air the exhaust of any vehicles except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom. Noise under this section is exclusive of the mufflers prohibited
under the provisions of KRS 189.140;
      (5)   Create any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or by the operation of
any such vehicle;
      (6)   Use any mechanical loud speaker, amplifier, sound system, stereo or
radio on any moving or standing vehicle for advertising, entertainment or any
other purpose, in such a manner as to create an unreasonably loud, harsh or
excessive noise;
      (7)   Operating any sound amplification device or musical instrument in
such a way that it is clearly audible inside of a residential dwelling when all
exterior doors and windows of such dwelling are closed or in such a way that it
is clearly audible at the property line of a residential property between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical loudspeaker, amplifier, bullhorn or
amplification device employed for the purpose of amplifying the human voice
that creates or emanates noise that is louder than average conversational level
at a distance of 50 feet or more from the point at which the sound is being
originated without a special event permit issued by the city pursuant to Ord.
157, 2020 as amended;
      (9)   Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or equipment
used in construction, drilling or demolition work between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing local time, such that the sound there from
creates a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary, except for
emergency work of public service utilities or by special variance as provided
for in §
94.03. This division (B)(9) shall not apply to the use of domestic power tools
subject to division (B)(10) of this section;
      (10)   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically powered
saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, lawn mower or other similar
device used outdoors that creates a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit
boundary other than powered snow removal equipment, between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing local time;
      (11)   Collecting refuse or operating refuse collection vehicles between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:30 a.m., prevailing local time, in such a manner
as to create a noise disturbance across a dwelling boundary; and
      (12)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the
city any dog that barks, yelps or otherwise creates a noise disturbance across
a dwelling unit boundary.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008; Ord. 102, 2022, passed
6-10-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION.
   The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a violation
of §
94.02 hereof exists shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   The volume of the noise;
   (B)   The intensity of the noise;
   (C)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
   (D)   The volume and intensity of background noise, if any;
   (E)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area or place of public
accommodation such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like;
   (F)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
   (G)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
   (H)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
   (I)   The duration of the noise; and
   (J)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008)
§ 94.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from §
94.02:
   (A)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning devices
and emergency pressure relief valves;
   (B)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
   (C)   Noises originating or emanating from religious activities, public
recreational facilities such as, but not limited to, sports stadiums and other
public amusement establishments;
   (D)   The operation of any aircraft in conformity with, or pursuant to,
federal law, federal air regulations and/or air traffic control instruction;
   (E)   Organized school related programs, activities or events, or parades or
other public programs, activities or events authorized by the City Manager or
his or her designated representative;
   (F)   The discharge of firearms by members of the Police Department or other
sworn peace officers;
   (G)   Any public safety service including snow removal, street sweeping,
fallen tree removal, restoration of public utilities, flood containment, and
any other necessary public safety service; and
   (H)   Noise originating or emanating from a special event authorized by the
city pursuant to Ord. 157, 2020, whether from any sound amplification device,
musical instrument or other source.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008; Ord. 102, 2022, passed
6-10-2022)
§ 94.05 SPECIAL VARIANCES.
   The City Manager is authorized in his or her discretion to grant special
variances relative to noise disturbances.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designated representative shall have
the authority, consistent with this section, to grant special variances to
those persons who can demonstrate that bringing a source of sound or activity
into compliance with §§
94.01 and
94.02 would constitute an unwarranted health hazard or an unreasonable economic
hardship upon the applicant.
   (B)   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall
file a written application with the City Manager or his or her designated
representative. The application shall be provided by the City Manager or his or
her designated representative. The application shall contain reasons why an
unwarranted health hazard or an unreasonable economic hardship would result if
the applicant was required to comply with §
94.03. The City Manager or his or her designated representative additionally
may require that the applicant give notice of the application for special
variance to persons who frequent the area of the sound or activity and may be
adversely affected by the granting of the variance. Any individual who claims
to be adversely affected by allowance to the special variance may file a
statement with the City Manager or his or her designated representative
containing any information to support his or her claim.
   (C)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the City
Manager or his or her designated representative shall balance the hardship to
the applicant, the community and other persons of not granting the special
variance against the adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of
persons affected, the adverse impact on property affected and any other adverse
impact of granting the special variance. Applicants for special variances and
persons contesting special variances may be required to submit any information
the City Manager or his or her representative may reasonably require. In
granting or denying an application, the City Manager or his or her
representative shall place on public file a copy of the decision and the
reasons for denying or granting the special variance.
   (D)   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions including a time limit on the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any conditions of the
special variances shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this section regulating the source of sound or activity for which
the special variance was granted.
   (E)   Application for extension of time limits specified in special
variances or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be
considered using the same criteria as division (C) of this section.
   (F)   The City Manager or his or her designated representative may issue
guidelines defining the procedures to be followed in applying for a special
variance and the criteria to be considered in deciding whether to grant a
special variance.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008)
§ 94.06 ABATEMENT.
   In lieu of issuing a citation as provided for in §
94.07, any city law enforcement officer may issue an order requiring the
immediate abatement of any source of sound alleged to be in violation of §§
94.01 through
94.07.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008)
§ 94.07 CITATION.
   Except where a person is acting in good faith to comply with an abatement
order issued pursuant to §
94.06, violation of any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.07 shall be cause for a citation to be issued by a city police officer.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and be fined not less than $25 nor more than any amounts enumerated
in KRS 534.040(2)(c). Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense. Failure to make payment to the City
Cashier within 30 days from the date of issuance of the city citation will
result in a uniform citation being issued for the violation and the matter will
be cited into the Boyd District Court.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 108-2008, passed 10-2-2008)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Prohibited nuisances
   
95.02   Abatement
Abandoned Vehicles
   
95.15   Junk, wrecked, abandoned vehicles declared nuisance
   
95.16   Written notice to remedy violation
   
95.17   Enforcement
   
95.18   State law adopted by reference
Smoking in Mass Transit Vehicles
   
95.30   Smoking prohibited
   
95.31   Violators to be evicted from vehicle
   
95.32   No smoking signs
False Alarm Policy
   
95.45   Purpose
   
95.46   Definitions
   
95.47   Policy
   
95.48   Procedure
   
95.49   False alarm notification letter
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional smoking regulations, see
Chapter 99
   Weeds, accumulation of rubbish on private lots, see §§
93.15 through
93.18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 PROHIBITED NUISANCES.
   In addition to the things deemed by the common law of the state to be
nuisances, the following things are hereby declared to be nuisances.
   (A)   All offensive trades which render the enjoyment of property dangerous;
   (B)   Vicious animals known to be running at large;
   (C)   Ponds of stagnant water, dung heaps and privies that are allowed to
become unclean and obnoxious;
   (D)   Hog pens, pig sties, slaughter pens and slaughterhouses; and
   (E)   The deposit of slop, water or other filth from kitchens or cook houses
on any street, lot, alley or sidewalk of the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.01)
§ 95.02 ABATEMENT.
   Any person who shall be guilty of causing, creating, suffering or
maintaining any of the things declared in §
95.01 to be nuisances shall be punished as provided in §
10.99, and, in addition thereto, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
keep a lookout for all offenses named in this chapter and to abate the same if
the owner shall refuse to do so on notice from the Chief of Police. After
notice to the owner to abate any nuisance and refusal on his or her part so to
do, the Chief of Police shall abate the same at the expense of the city and the
city shall then have the right to recover the costs of abatement from the
person whose fault it was that the nuisance was permitted, created or
maintained.
(Prior Code, § 95.02)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 95.15 JUNK, WRECKED, ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit a junk, wrecked,
partially dismantled or abandoned motor vehicle to be parked or allowed to
remain on any private or public property other than city streets within the
city for a period longer than 15 days.
   (B)   A motor vehicle is covered by this subchapter if it does not have
lawfully affixed thereto an unexpired license plate. A motor vehicle is
additionally covered by this subchapter if it is inoperable and remains in an
inoperable condition for a period of 15 days, whether or not it has an
unexpired license plate. A vehicle of any type shall not at any time undergo
major overhaul, including body work, in a residence zone, as defined by the
zoning ordinance of the city, unless such work is performed inside a structure
or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purpose and not in
violation of the zoning ordinance and/or zoning rules and regulations of the
city. Under no circumstances shall more than one vehicle be upon the same
property at any one time for the purposes of major overhaul, including body
work.
   (C)   No person, corporation or other legal entity, in control of premises,
whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any junk,
wrecked, partially dismantled, or abandoned motor vehicle to remain on the
property longer than 15 days, and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any
such property within the city for a period longer than 15 days, except that
this division (C) shall not apply with regard to any vehicle in an enclosed
building or so located on the premises as not to be readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply with regard to any vehicle on the
premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when
the keeping and maintenance of the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise; or with regard to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city or any
public agency or entity.
(Prior Code, § 95.10) (Ord. 121-1994, passed 9-15-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles on city streets, see §
72.007
   Towing services, see
Ch. 114
§ 95.16 WRITTEN NOTICE TO REMEDY VIOLATION.
   Should it be discovered that any junk, wrecked, partially dismantled or
abandoned motor vehicle has remained on property in violation of §
95.15, the Code Enforcement Officer or any other city official or employee
designated by the City Manager shall give written notice to the owner, occupant
or person having control of the property involved to remedy the situation. If,
within 15 days after written notice has been directed to the alleged violator,
the violation has not been remedied, appropriate action shall be taken by the
city official to cite the alleged violator under the provisions of §
95.99. The mere removal of a cited vehicle to another unenclosed location shall
not be deemed to be compliance.
(Prior Code, § 95.11) (Ord. 121-1994, passed 9-15-1994)
§ 95.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer or any
other city official or employee designated by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 95.12) (Ord. 121-1994, passed 9-15-1994)
§ 95.18 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Persons who leave vehicles on a city street under circumstances indicating
abandonment and such vehicles shall be subject to the provisions of KRS
189.751.
(Prior Code, § 95.13) (Ord. 121-1994, passed 9-15-1994) Penalty, see §
95.99
SMOKING IN MASS TRANSIT VEHICLES
§ 95.30 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   To promote the comfort, health, safety and well-being of the patrons of the
Ashland Bus System and to protect the property of the Ashland Bus System, it
shall be illegal to smoke tobacco or any other product on the mass transit
vehicles of the Ashland Bus System.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 13-1979, passed 4-19-1979) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 VIOLATORS TO BE EVICTED FROM VEHICLE.
   Any person who shall violate the terms of §
95.30 shall be expelled and evicted from the bus or mass transit vehicle on his
or her refusal to cease and desist the smoking of tobacco or other products on
the bus or mass transit vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 13-1979, passed 4-19-1979)
§ 95.32 NO SMOKING SIGNS.
   The Director of the Department of Planning and Zoning, Code Enforcement and
Mass Transit is hereby authorized to cause to be prepared appropriate “No
Smoking” signs and to cause the signs to be placed in all mass transit vehicles
operated by the Ashland Bus System.
(Prior Code, § 95.22) (Ord. 13-1979, passed 4-19-1979)
FALSE ALARM POLICY
§ 95.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to provide members of the Fire Prevention
Division with a policy and procedure for the enforcement of false alarms.
(Prior Code, § 95.30) (Ord. 40-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 95.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTENTIONAL FALSE ALARM. The willful and knowing initiation or transmission
of a signal, message or other notification of an event of fire when no such
danger exists.
   NUISANCE ALARM. An alarm caused by mechanical failure, malfunction, improper
installation or lack of proper maintenance, or an alarm activated by a cause
that cannot be determined.
   UNWARRANTED FIRE ALARM. The giving, signaling or transmission of an alarm
notification to a public fire station or emergency communications center when
such alarm is the result of a defective condition of an alarm system, system
servicing or testing, construction activities, or other cause when no such
danger exists.
(Prior Code, § 95.31) (Ord. 40-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 95.47 POLICY.
   (A)   Each property or facility is allowed two unwarranted and/or nuisance
alarms per 12-month calendar year (January 1 through December 31). Any fire
alarm in excess of two is subject to administrative fines. An intentional false
alarm will result in a citation.
      (1)   A warning letter will be sent to the property for both the first
and second unwarranted and/or nuisance alarm to inform them of their false
alarms (see § 95.49).
      (2)   Subsequent unwarranted and/or nuisance alarms cannot be counted as
the second false alarm until proper notification is delivered. For example, if
there were three false alarms during the weekend, the Fire Prevention personnel
would notify the property on the following Monday. All three of the weekend
alarms would count as one alarm. They will be allowed one additional false
alarm before citation.
   (B)   All incidents involving intentional, unwarranted and/or nuisance false
alarms shall be coded according to the National Fire Incident Reporting System
(NFIRS).
   (C)   The NFIRS incident type codes 711 - 745 will count as intentional,
unwarranted and nuisance false alarms.
   (D)   Alarms due to inclement weather will not count as false alarms towards
a citation.
   (E)   Citations will be immediately issued to the responsible party for
malicious, mischievous false alarms, bomb scares or alarm system testing or
servicing. Alarms which resulted in a citation to the responsible party will
not be counted in the false alarm count for property owners.
   (F)   Any unwarranted or nuisance false alarms that are the result of a
failure to maintain a fire alarm system may be subject to immediate citation
for violation for failure to maintain a fire and life safety system in operable
conditions at all times.
(Prior Code, § 95.32) (Ord. 40-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 95.48 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Suppression. Captains shall accurately code false alarm calls
according to NFIRS.
   (B)   Fire prevention.
      (1)   Review Firehouse Journal Report of previous day(s) activities to
identify false alarms in their area of responsibility.
      (2)   If alarms are first offense for location:
         (a)   Record alarm history in Fire Prevention database as first
offense. If there are multiple alarms received before initial notice, record
all alarms as first offense;
         (b)   Generate false fire alarm notification letter;
         (c)   Mail notification letter with a copy of alarm history to
responsible party via regular mail; and
         (d)   Document any visits or phone calls in the Fire Prevention
database.
      (3)   If alarms are second offense for location:
         (a)   Record alarm history in Fire Prevention database. If
notification, either by mail or telephone or in person, has been received then
record as second offense;
         (b)   Generate false fire alarm notification letter;
         (c)   Mail notification letter with a copy of alarm history to
responsible party via regular mail; and
         (d)   Document any visits or phone calls in Fire Prevention database.
      (4)   If alarms are third offense for location:
         (a)   Record alarm history in Fire Prevention database as third
offense;
         (b)   Issue administrative citation to the responsible party;
         (c)   Mail citation with a copy of alarm history to responsible party
via certified mail; and
         (d)   Send all supporting documentation of citation to the
Administrative Citation Program Manager per the administrative citation policy
and procedure.
      (5)   If alarms are fourth offense for location: record alarm history in
Fire Prevention database. If citation has been received by responsible party,
an additional citation can be issued for a second offense fine in the citation
fine schedule.
      (6)   If alarms are fifth offense for location: record alarm history in
Fire Prevention database. If second citation has been received by responsible
party, an additional citation can be issued for a third offense fine in the
citation fine schedule.
(Prior Code, § 95.33) (Ord. 40-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 95.49 FALSE ALARM NOTIFICATION LETTER.
(Date)
VIA U.S. MAIL
Mr. John Jones
123 Main Street
Anytown, CA 94567
RE: UNWARRANTED OR NUISANCE FALSE FIRE ALARM NOTIFICATION
Dear ______:
The Ashland Fire Department has received one or mor false fire alarms at the
above address, as defined in the False Alarm Policy adopted by the City of
Ashland in Ord. 40, 2012. Each false fire alarm reduces available resources for
other emergencies and places the public and fire personnel in needless danger.
City ordinance allows for two false alarms per calendar year. Additional false
alarms may result in a citation and fines as follows:
 
Third false alarm  $500
Fourth false alarm $1,000
Fifth false alarm  $1,500
 
Any false alarms prior to this letter will be counted as one false alarm and
one additional alarm will be permitted without citation or fees.
Sincerely,
(Prior Code, § 95.34) (Ord. 40-2012, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both a fine and imprisonment. Every
day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.99)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Park Rules and Regulations
   
96.01   Designation of Central Park boundaries
   
96.02   Special events regulated
   
96.03   Activities prohibited within all parks
   
96.04   Closing hours
   
96.05   Costs of admission
   
96.06   Animals and wildlife
   
96.07   Disorderly conduct
   
96.08   Approval required for use of amplification equipment
   
96.09   Rules and regulations for Central Park Pavilion
   
96.10   Activity room rules, regulations and fees
   
96.11   Use of inflatable playgrounds
   
96.12   Regulations posted at park entrances
   
96.13   Use or rental of city facilities
   
96.14   Rules and regulations for the Charles and Betty Russell Park Nature
Trails
Riverfront Park
   
96.25   Special events regulations
   
96.26   Prohibited activities
   
96.27   Rules and regulations
   
96.28   Dogs permitted
   
96.29   Regulations posted
 
   
96.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Facility Use/Rental Information Form
Cross-reference:
   Special events, see §§
97.130 through
97.140
   Tennis Commission, see §
35.20
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parks, playgrounds, and the like, see KRS 97.010
GENERAL PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 96.01 DESIGNATION OF CENTRAL PARK BOUNDARIES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the boundaries of Central Park shall be
considered 17th to 22nd Streets, Lexington to Central Avenues, including
rights-of-way. Excluded are Crabbe Elementary School and parking lot and the
Boyd County Library and parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.02 SPECIAL EVENTS REGULATED.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to restrict or prohibit the use of city
parks by individual citizens who are not required to make application for a
special event permit for the use of city parks.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to individuals, in that all individuals shall
be subject to all applicable provisions of any and all ordinances on the use of
all city parks.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 158, 2020, passed
11-20-2020)
§ 96.03 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHIN ALL PARKS.
   The Board of City Commissioners of the city, in the interest of public
safety and welfare, hereby declare the following activities to be prohibited
within the confines of all city parks:
   (A)   No driver shall stop his or her vehicle in the roadway or in any way
block or impede the flow of traffic on said roadway; nor shall any pedestrian
impede the flow of traffic on said roadway;
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked upon the roadway running in an easterly and
westerly direction within Central Park except off the traveled portion of the
road and within the parking spaces provided for said purpose;
   (C)   No person shall possess alcoholic beverages in an open container or a
container with the seal or cap broken in any city park, except as part of a
special event properly licensed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Vendors, who have been approved by the Board of City Commissioners, to
set up and sell within the confines of city parks shall be restricted to the
roadway, or other areas as designated by direction of the Board of City
Commissioners or Director of Parks and Recreation or designees. In no event,
shall any vendor be permitted to park or leave standing his or her vehicle or
concession stand upon any grassy area of city parks;
   (E)   No individual or entity, not on city business, shall be permitted to
park or remain standing a vehicle, trailer, camping trailer/tent or similar
structure upon any grassy area of all city parks;
   (F)   Motor vehicles, including all terrain (ATV), golf carts, go carts and
motorcycles, shall be confined to the paved roadway in all city parks and
designated parking areas. Power assisted wheelchairs for the handicapped shall
not be considered as motor vehicles under the terms of this chapter;
   (G)   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalk around Central Park as
follows: north side of Lexington Avenue between 17th and 22nd Streets; east
side of 17th Street between Lexington and Central Avenues; south side of
Central Avenue between 17th and 22nd Streets; and the west side of 22nd Street
between Lexington and Central Avenues. Bicycles with training wheels or
tricycles ridden by young children who are accompanied by an adult are exempt
from this restriction;
   (H)   All motor vehicles, not on city business, shall park in designated
parking areas, which shall be limited to paved or graveled surfaces;
   (I)   Any person, group or organization, who has received Board of City
Commission approval to drive or pull a vehicle onto any grassy area of the
park, for the purpose of loading or unloading, shall without delay, remove the
vehicle to a designated parking area. For enforcement purposes, it shall be a
violation of this chapter if no loading or unloading continues for more than 30
minutes;
   (J)   Public safety and service vehicles, when on necessary city business
shall have access to all areas of all city parks, but shall limit movement on
grassy areas of the parks to bona fide use, including public safety calls for
service, and park maintenance, and wherever possible, shall avoid driving over
or parking upon grassy areas, if the task to be performed can be accomplished
without the use of a motor vehicle;
   (K)   Parking within city parks shall be limited to those persons using the
parks. Parking by persons working outside the parks shall be prohibited;
   (L)   No person(s), group or organization shall engage in any activity for
which fees or charges are made within the park, whether the monies are
collected at the park or other location. This prohibition shall not include any
recognized community-wide activity, charitable fundraising activity or sale for
which prior Board of Commissioners approval shall be required with reasonable
advance request made by the organization involved. This prohibition shall not
include work performed for or at the direction of the city;
   (M)   All automobiles and other vehicles entering city parks shall confine
themselves strictly to the regular roadway through the parks and shall not in
any case drive on the paths, grass, or regular walkways of the parks;
   (N)   No vehicle shall be operated in any city park at a speed in excess of
ten mph;
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or unnecessarily injure
any bench, swing, structure or other physical property of any kind in any city
park;
   (P)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, scatter or discard any
paper, filth, garbage, or other waste matter at any place in any city park
except in the receptacles therein placed for such purpose;
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to smoke
inside or around any city park. The Director of Parks and Recreation is hereby
authorized to install appropriate signs and/or markings to properly carry the
provisions of this section into effect;
   (R)   No person(s) shall dive, swim or enter for any reason the pond located
in Central Park. This prohibition shall not include work performed for or at
the direction of the city; and
   (S)   It is prohibited to camp or otherwise temporarily reside in the Port
of Ashland, Riverfront Park, without prior written approval relating to a
special event.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 158, 2020, passed
11-20-2020; Ord. 107, 2022, passed 6-24-2022)
§ 96.04 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Closing hours for Central Park, Dawson Park, Oliverio Park and all
other city parks are hereby fixed at 11:00 p.m. each night and such parks shall
remain closed from the hour indicated until 7:00 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   Lights shall be turned off by 10:30 p.m. on all baseball diamonds,
softball diamonds and tennis courts.
   (C)   Civic or other non-profit special interest groups may request an
extension of such hours from the Parks and Recreation Director. The Parks and
Recreation Director shall consult with the Park Board and forward any
recommendation to the City Manager. No extension shall exist until such time it
is approved by the Board of City Commissioners.
   (D)   During the hours such parks are closed, no person shall remain in or
enter the premises except city maintenance employees, officials of the city,
and law enforcement officers, who shall have the right to enter upon such
premises for purposes of patrolling, enforcing the law or other appropriate
administrative purposes.
   (E)   During the hours such parks are closed, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to park and leave standing any vehicle inside the
park. Any person, firm or corporation violating these terms who choose to
prepay the administrative penalty, the rate shall not be less than $10. All
administrative penalties derived from the enforcement of this division (E)
shall be paid into the General Fund of the city for the purpose of defraying
the cost of general government.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.05 COSTS OF ADMISSION.
   The cost of admission to the Dawson Park swimming pool shall be as follows:
 
Adult                 $3
Children 18 and under $2
 
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.06 ANIMALS AND WILDLIFE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lead livestock through or
within any city park. All dogs taken to city parks for the purpose of exercise
shall be at all times while in city parks restricted upon a leash. No dogs
shall be permitted within the boundaries of Central Park. Dogs shall be
permitted outside the perimeter of Central Park as defined by the area between
the sidewalk and the curb and in that area located near 22nd Street as a dog
park/dog run. City employees and all police officers are directed to strictly
enforce this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, injure, or unnecessarily
frighten any wildlife within any city park.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 104-2016, passed 9-
22-2016) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
disorderly or indecorous manner within any city park.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 525.060, a person is guilty of disorderly conduct in
the second degree when in a public place and with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or wantonly creating a risk thereof, he or
she:
      (1)   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Makes unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refuses to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard or other emergency; or
      (4)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.08 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR USE OF AMPLIFICATION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any person, group or organization which seeks to use any amplifiers or
amplification equipment for the purpose of amplifying music or the human voice
in any city park shall apply for and receive a special event permit before such
utilization.
   (B)   This section does not apply to personal radios utilized to receive
commercially broadcast radio signals and personal equipment for the playing of
recorded music and utilized for person listening pleasure only.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 158, 2020, passed
11-20-2020)
§ 96.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CENTRAL PARK PAVILION.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the following rules and regulations
for the use of the Pavilion located in Central Park.
   (A)   Use of the Pavilion located in Central Park shall require a special
event permit.
   (B)   Events held September 16 through April 14, Monday through Saturday,
must end by 9:00 p.m. and on Sunday by 6:00 p.m. Programs held April 15 through
September 15, Monday through Saturday, must end by 10:00 p.m. and on Sunday by
6:00 p.m.
   (C)   Each individual or group will be responsible for the condition and
clean-up of the facility.
   (D)   No solicitation without permission will be permitted on or around the
Pavilion.
   (E)   Amplification will not be allowed without a special event permit and
will be held to a minimum for the enjoyment of the audience located around the
Pavilion.
   (F)   The city will provide electric power if requested.
   (G)   A returnable damage deposit of $100 is required of all private users.
   (H)   No alcoholic beverages will be permitted on or around the Pavilion
except as part of a special event properly licensed for the consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No food or drinks will be permitted on the Pavilion.
   (J)   No profanity or lewd behavior will be permitted on the Pavilion.
   (K)   Proper attire for all performers will be required on the Pavilion.
   (L)   Smoking or tobacco use of any kind is prohibited on the Pavilion.
   (M)   Open flames are prohibited on the Pavilion.
   (N)   Any infringement of these rules will result in the individual(s) being
asked to leave the Pavilion, and may result in future denial of use and/or
forfeiture of the $100 deposit.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 158, 2020, passed
11-20-2020)
§ 96.10 ACTIVITY ROOM RULES, REGULATIONS AND FEES.
   The rules, regulations and fees governing the use of the activity room
located in Central Park are hereby adopted in full by the Board of City
Commissioners, said rules, regulations and fees are attached hereto and made a
part hereof by reference.
(Prior Code, § 96.10) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.11 USE OF INFLATABLE PLAYGROUNDS.
   The use of inflatable playgrounds in Central Park shall constitute a special
event and shall require the issuance of a special event permit. The rules,
regulations and fees governing such use of inflatable playgrounds in Central
Park shall be as follows.
   (A)   Any person, group or organization which seeks to utilize inflatable
playgrounds for the purpose of a recreation event at Central Park shall before
such use obtain a special event permit.
   (B)   Inflatable playgrounds will be limited to the Pavilion area of Central
Park and scheduled on a first/come first/serve basis.
   (C)   There will be a $35 utilization fee. There will be an additional $15
electrical service fee for those persons, groups or organizations utilizing
city power.
   (D)   All associated fees and releases/waivers must be paid and signed at
least 48 hours prior to the scheduled event. A receipt of the approved event
permit must be present for the duration of the event.
   (E)   Any group utilizing a third party vendor to supply inflatable
playgrounds must provide a copy of injury/liability insurance from the third
party vendor providing a minimum $1,000,000 of coverage.
   (F)   City sponsored events can be exempted from this chapter provided prior
approval from the Board of City Commissioners has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 158, 2020, passed
11-20-2020)
§ 96.12 REGULATIONS POSTED AT PARK ENTRANCES.
   These prohibitions in abbreviated format along with other regulations
appearing in this
Chapter 96 of the city code of ordinances may be posted at all city park
entrances along with fines for the violation of such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.13 USE OR RENTAL OF CITY FACILITIES.
   The facility use/rental information form contained in Appendix A to this
chapter is hereby approved and adopted by the city for use of city facilities
pursuant to the guidelines set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) (Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 96.14 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE CHARLES AND BETTY RUSSELL PARK NATURE
TRAILS.
   (A)   The Board of City Commissioners, in the interest of public safety and
welfare, hereby declare the following activities to be prohibited within the
confines of the area known and referred to as the Charles and Betty Russell
Park Property Nature Trails unless prior approval from the Board of City
Commissioners has been obtained:
      (1)   No motor vehicle shall be operated;
      (2)   No person shall possess alcoholic beverages;
      (3)   All motor vehicles shall be parked in designated parking areas and
shall be limited to person(s) using the trails;
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to throw, scatter or discard any paper, filth,
garbage or other waste matter, except in the receptacles therein placed for
that purpose;
      (5)   No individual or entity shall be permitted to park or remain
standing a vehicle, trailer, camping trailer/tent or similar structure to camp
or otherwise temporarily reside;
      (6)   No lewd behavior or disorderly conduct will be permitted;
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to
be made or continued, any unreasonably loud, harsh, excessive or unnecessary or
unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of others unless the making and continuing of
the noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the
life, health or safety of a person or persons;
      (8)   No smoking or open flames permitted;
      (9)   Damaging of property is not permitted;
      (10)   It shall be unlawful to mistreat any and all wildlife;
      (11)   Hunting of any kind is prohibited; and
      (12)   All dogs shall be at all times while in said area restricted upon
a leash. Parks and Recreation, Public Works employees and all police officers
shall strictly enforce this section.
   (B)   Use of the nature trails shall be at your own risk and only during the
hours from dawn to dusk.
   (C)   These prohibitions in abbreviated format along with other regulations
shall be posted at all entrances along with fines for the violation of such
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 96.14) (Ord. 88-2014, passed 10-9-2014)
RIVERFRONT PARK
§ 96.25 SPECIAL EVENTS REGULATIONS.
   Any use of the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park that meets the definition of
a special event as set forth in the Special Events Ordinance (§§
97.130 through
97.140 of this code of ordinances) shall be regulated in all respects by the
Special Event Ordinance.
   (A)   This subchapter is not intended to restrict or prohibit the use of the
Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park, by individual citizens who are not required
to make application for the use of the park, pursuant to the Special Events
Ordinance. This section is considered in conjunction with Ord. 27, 1999, as
hereafter amended, that provides that the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park is
supervised by the Department of Parks and Recreation with the Park Board acting
as the advisory board for city parks.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to individuals or groups, in that all
individuals/groups shall be subject to all applicable provisions of any and all
ordinances on the use of the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park.
   (C)   The Port of Ashland is also a public access facility. Marine users,
both commercial and recreational, must follow all federal, state and local
laws. The Ashland Police Department (APD) is designated the responsible agent
in charge of security at this facility. It is the policy of the APD to provide
assistance in conducting security sweeps of the Port of Ashland, Kentucky prior
to the arrival of the Maritime Security Act (MTSA) regulated passenger vessels.
The APD will also assist in providing additional security as required during
elevated Coast Guard Maritime Security (MARSEC) levels.
(Prior Code, § 96.40) (Ord. 159, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 96.26 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The Board of City Commissioners, in the interest of public safety and
welfare, hereby declare the following activities to be prohibited within the
confines of the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park unless prior approval from the
Ashland Board of City Commissioners has been obtained.
   (A)   No driver shall stop his or her vehicle in the roadway or in any way
block or impede the flow of traffic on said roadway; nor shall any pedestrian
impede the flow of traffic on said roadway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated in the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park,
at a speed in excess of five mph.
   (C)   All automobiles and other vehicles entering the Port of Ashland,
Riverfront Park, shall confine themselves strictly to the regular roadway
through the park and shall not in any case drive on the paths, grass, or
regular walkways through the park.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be parked upon the roadway within the Port of
Ashland, Riverfront Park, except off the traveled portion of the road and
within the parking spaces provided for said purpose.
   (E)   No person shall possess alcoholic beverages in an open container or a
container with the seal or cap broken except as part of an approved special
event permit which includes licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages in
conjunction with the special event permit.
   (F)   Vendors who have been approved by the Board of City Commissioners to
set up and sell within the confines of the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park
shall be restricted to the roadway, or other areas, as designated by direction
of the Board of City Commissioners, Director of Parks and Recreation, or
designees. In no event shall any vendor be permitted to park or leave standing
his or her vehicle or concession stand upon any grassy area of the Port of
Ashland, Riverfront Park.
   (G)   No individual or entity not on city business shall be permitted to
park or remain standing a vehicle, trailer, camping trailer/tent or similar
structure upon any grassy area.
   (H)   Motor vehicles, including all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), recreational
vehicles (RVs), golf carts, go carts and motorcycles, shall be confined to the
paved roadway in the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park, and designated parking
areas. Power-assisted wheelchairs for the handicapped shall not be considered
as motor vehicles under the terms of this subchapter.
   (I)   No person shall ride a skateboard or skates in the Port of Ashland,
Riverfront Park.
   (J)   All motor vehicles not on city business shall park in designated
parking areas, which shall be limited to paved or graveled surfaces.
   (K)   Any person, group or organization who has received Board of City
Commission approval to drive or pull a vehicle onto any grassy area of the park
for the purpose of loading or unloading shall, without delay, remove the
vehicle to a designated parking area. For enforcement purposes, it shall be a
violation of this subchapter if no loading or unloading continues for more than
30 minutes.
   (L)   Public safety and service vehicles, when on necessary city business,
shall have access to all areas of the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park, but
shall limit movement on grassy areas of the park to bona fide use, including
public safety calls for service and park maintenance, and wherever possible,
shall avoid driving over or parking upon grassy areas, if the task to be
performed can be accomplished without the use of a motor vehicle.
   (M)   Parking within the park shall be limited to those persons using the
park. Parking by persons working outside the park shall be prohibited.
   (N)   No person(s), group or organization shall engage in any activity for
which fees or charges are made within the park, whether the monies are
collected at the park or other location. This prohibition shall not include any
recognized special event which has been approved pursuant to the Special Event
Ordinance. This prohibition shall not include work performed for or at the
direction of the city.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to throw, scatter or discard any paper, filth,
garbage or other waste matter at any place in the Port of Ashland, Riverfront
Park, except in the receptacles therein placed for that purpose.
   (P)   The use of inflatable playgrounds at the Port of Ashland, Riverfront
Park, is prohibited unless prior approval from the Department of Parks and
Recreation has been obtained.
   (Q)   Sponsored events on marine vessels docking at the Port of Ashland: it
will be the responsibility of any commercial vessel to contact the Facility
Securities Officer (FSO) of the Port of Ashland prior to docking for events.
Contact shall be made no less than seven days prior to arriving. The FSO is
designated as the Chief of Police and the assistant is the Field Operations
Division Commander (Patrol Major). This contact will make arrangements for the
necessary security measures to be put in place mandated by federal, state and
local laws. The sponsor of the event will need to inform the vendor of the
requirement to contact the FSO upon approval of the Board of City
Commissioners.
   (R)   It is prohibited to camp or otherwise temporarily reside in the Port
of Ashland, Riverfront Park, without prior written approval relating to a
special event.
(Prior Code, § 96.41) (Ord. 159, 2020, passed 11-20-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.27 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of City Commissioners hereby adopts the following rules and
regulations for the use of the Riverfront Pavilion/Stage Area within the Port
of Ashland, Riverfront Park.
   (A)   Use of the Riverfront Pavilion/Stage Area of the Port of Ashland,
Riverfront Park, shall require a special event permit.
   (B)   Each individual or group will be responsible for the condition and
cleanup of the facility.
   (C)   No solicitation without permission will be permitted on or around the
Pavilion/Stage.
   (D)   Amplification will not be allowed without a special event permit and
will be held to a minimum for the enjoyment of the audience located around the
Pavilion/Stage.
   (E)   Each individual or group may be charged for utilities and any other
city service dependent upon the function or service provided due to the city’s
cost of the event. This includes for-profit and non-profit organizations.
   (F)   A returnable damage deposit of $250 is required of all private uses.
   (G)   No profanity or lewd behavior will be permitted on the Pavilion/Stage.
   (H)   Proper attire for all performers will be required on the Pavilion/
Stage.
   (I)   Any infringement of these rules will result in the individual or group
being asked to leave and may result in future denial of use and forfeiture of
the $250 deposit.
(Prior Code, § 96.42) (Ord. 159, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 96.28 DOGS PERMITTED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, dogs shall be
permitted within the Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park, and all dogs taken to
the park for the purpose of exercise shall be at all times while in said park
restricted upon a leash. Parks and recreation and public works employees and
all police officers are directed to strictly enforce this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lead livestock within the Port
of Ashland, Riverfront Park.
(Prior Code, § 96.43) (Ord. 159, 2020, passed 11-20-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.29 REGULATIONS POSTED.
   These prohibitions in abbreviated format along with other regulations
appearing in this Chapter 96 of the city code of ordinances may be posted at
all Port of Ashland, Riverfront Park entrances along with fines for the
violation of such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 96.44) (Ord. 159, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If violation of the terms of this chapter results in a uniform
citation being issued, any person, firm or corporation who shall violate these
provisions shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $10 more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040
for a violation offense, except as stated in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   If violation of the terms of this chapter results in a uniform
citation being issued, any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of
§§
96.03(D),
96.03(E),
96.14(A)(2) or
96.14(E) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be
fined in any sum not less than $50 nor more than any stated amount provided in
KRS 534.040 for a violation offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 88-2014, passed 10-9-2014; Ord. 43-2016, passed 4-
14-2016; Ord. 159, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
APPENDIX A: FACILITY USE/RENTAL INFORMATION FORM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/81218e8f721875f22f5aa7db925a95307d1ac9e8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2262.png]
(Prior Code, Ch. 96, App. A)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Construction or erection of tracks, poles and the like
   
97.002   Duty to keep sidewalks clean, clear
Prohibited Activities
   
97.015   Obstruction of public way by fence prohibited
   
97.016   Disposal of grass, weeds, or salt water on street or sidewalk
prohibited
   
97.017   Depositing glass, nails and the like prohibited
   
97.018   Traveling over grassplots, curb and gutter prohibited
   
97.019   Display, sale of merchandise on streets or sidewalks prohibited
   
97.020   Playing games or throwing missiles prohibited
   
97.021   Bicycles or pushcarts prohibited on sidewalks
   
97.022   Painting signs and the like on streets, sidewalks prohibited
   
97.023   Washing vehicles or animals on streets
   
97.024   Spitting on sidewalks, in public places
   
97.025   Allowing water to run onto public ways prohibited
   
97.026   Obstructing public ways with lumber, boxes, rubbish
   
97.027   Disposal of noxious weeds, rank vegetation, grass clippings or leaves
Excavations
   
97.040   Removal of earth, stone to be approved by city
   
97.041   Permit required for work within public right-of-way; fee
   
97.042   Excavations in recently improved public streets and alleys; fee
   
97.043   Information to be supplied by permit applicant
   
97.044   Precautions to be taken by holder of excavation permit
   
97.045   Backfilling and restoration specifications
   
97.046   Sidewalk cuts; driveway aprons
   
97.047   Paving contracts to contain certain specifications
   
97.048   Contracts with State Department of Highways
   
97.049   Excavations for cellars, cisterns, wells to be enclosed
   
97.050   Driving on barricaded streets
   
97.051   Unauthorized removal of barricades
House Numbering
   
97.065   City numbering system
Projecting Signs, Marquees, Awnings
   
97.080   Scope of regulations
   
97.081   Permit required; fee and inspection
   
97.082   Maximum projection of signs
   
97.083   Bracing, anchorage, and supports for projecting signs
   
97.084   Construction of marquees
   
97.085   Awnings and canopies
   
97.086   Banners and signs across streets
Sidewalk Replacement and Construction Policy
   
97.100   Policy priorities; cost sharing
   
97.101   Agreement for services
Street Names
   
97.115   Authority to name streets
   
97.116   Precedents not established
   
97.117   Proposal to name or rename street
   
97.118   Standards
   
97.119   Recommendation of City Manager
Special Events
   
97.130   Definitions
   
97.131   Permit required
   
97.132   Application for permit
   
97.133   Permit application requirements
   
97.134   Insurance
   
97.135   Fees and costs
   
97.136   Timeframes and deadlines
   
97.137   Standards for issuance of special event permit
   
97.138   Denial or revocation of a permit
   
97.139   Conduct of special events regulated; non-transferability of permit
   
97.140   Appeal
 
   
97.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Skateboards in Central Business District, see §
71.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 CONSTRUCTION OR ERECTION OF TRACKS, POLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No street railway, gas, water steam heating, telephone or electric
light company within the city, shall be permitted to construct its tracks, lay
its pipes, or erect its poles, posts or other apparatus, over, under or across
the streets, alleys or public grounds of the city, without consent of the Board
of Commissioners having first been obtained.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all telephone or telegraph companies, and all
other persons erecting poles, posts or other things, requiring holes or
depressions to be dug or made in the earth within the city, to remove all
surplus dirt, chips or other trash or refuse from the city, after the work
shall have been completed, and to refill the holes or depressions in such a
manner that the surface shall be left in at least as good condition as it was
before being disturbed by those persons.
(Prior Code, § 97.001) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.002 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS CLEAN, CLEAR.
   The owners or occupiers of lots shall keep the sidewalks in front thereof
clear, in good repair, and free from mud, dirt, snow, ice, weeds or other
obstructions. If any person fails or refuses to clear or repair the sidewalks
for 48 hours or repair the sidewalks within 90 days after being notified so to
do by the Director of Public Works or City Engineer, it shall be the duty of
the city to have the work done at the expense of the city. When so done the
city shall have a lien on the abutting property to secure it for the expense of
the work, together with interest and costs.
(Prior Code, § 97.002) (Ord. 49-2015, passed 5-28-2015) Penalty, see §
97.999
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
§ 97.015 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAY BY FENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fence off or obstruct by his or her fence, any street, alley
or sidewalk, or any part of same nor shall any person permit the fence to
remain so as to obstruct the street, alley or sidewalk after being notified to
remove it by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 97.015) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.016 DISPOSAL OF GRASS, WEEDS, OR SALT WATER ON STREET OR SIDEWALK
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place grass or weeds
from the lawn or yards on the streets or alleys or in the gutters of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, throw, or place salt
water on the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.016) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.017 DEPOSITING GLASS, NAILS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit on any street or highway any glass bottles,
glass, nails, hoops, wire, cans or other substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 97.017) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.018 TRAVELING OVER GRASSPLOTS, CURB AND GUTTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk, ride or drive across
grassplots, on the sidewalks of the city within the curb line where pavements
have been laid, abutting the property where the grassplots shall be enclosed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive an animal or vehicle over
the combined curb and gutters in the city, except at points provided in the
construction of curb and gutters, without first providing bridging of plank,
properly placed in order to protect the curb and gutters from injury.
(Prior Code, § 97.018) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.019 DISPLAY, SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose for sale any goods,
wares, vegetables, merchandise or furniture on any of the sidewalks of the
city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale goods,
wares or merchandise, clocks, jewelry, gold, silverware, plateware, pictures,
spectacles, drugs nostrums, perfumes, patent medicine or anything at public
auction or public outcry from a stand, conveyance or box or other manner on the
streets or alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.019) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.020 PLAYING GAMES OR THROWING MISSILES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to play at the games usually called baseball, football
or shinny, or to fly kites on the streets, walks or public grounds of the city,
or throw stones, brickbats, clubs or other missiles against any building,
fence, wall or steps or along or across any of the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.020) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.021 BICYCLES OR PUSHCARTS PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or propel bicycles or pushcarts
on the sidewalks of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.021) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.022 PAINTING SIGNS AND THE LIKE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paint any signs, letters or devices
on the streets or sidewalks of the city. This provision shall not apply to any
painting of the streets done under the supervision of the Police Department for
regulation of traffic or for the protection of the public.
(Prior Code, § 97.022) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.023 WASHING VEHICLES OR ANIMALS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy any of the streets,
sidewalks or gutters of the city for the purpose of washing any vehicles or
animal thereon.
(Prior Code, § 97.023) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.024 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS, IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit on any sidewalk of the
city, or on any floor, or on any furniture or fixture in the city building, or
in any public building or within a public conveyances within the city.
   (B)   It is hereby made the special duty of the Police Department and those
in charge of public buildings and conveyances to report violations of the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 97.024) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.025 ALLOWING WATER TO RUN ONTO PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   In all cases where the water from the roofs of buildings is permitted to
flow from the front or side of the buildings to the pavement the water shall be
conducted to the pavement or sidewalk by down pipes and gutters to the sewers.
Where there is no sewer with which to connect, the down pipes and gutters shall
be conducted to the street gutters by a pipe under the pavement, and in no case
shall a pipe be permitted to empty its contents on the sidewalks or pavements.
Persons having sheds or awnings attached to buildings may conduct the water in
pipes from the awnings or sheds by down pipes over the sheds or awnings to the
street gutters or sewers. The flow of water from the roofs without down pipes
and flow of water from awnings and sheds without down pipes which empty water
on the pavement are hereby declared unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 97.025) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.026 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS WITH LUMBER, BOXES, RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave lumber, stone, bricks or
any other thing, which obstructs the travel on any of the streets or sidewalks
of the city except as permitted by law to persons engaged in erecting or
repairing houses or other buildings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, stack or place boxes or
rubbish of any kind in any of the streets or alleys of the city, or to erect or
maintain stairways that extend over any of the alleys within the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.026) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.027 DISPOSAL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS, RANK VEGETATION, GRASS CLIPPINGS OR LEAVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, blow or allow
noxious weeds, rank vegetation, grass clippings or leaves from the lawn or yard
as follows:
      (1)   Upon any streets, roadways, avenues, highways or alleys of the
city;
      (2)   In the gutters of any streets, roadways, avenues, highways or
alleys of the city; and
      (3)   In any storm drain or watercourse of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any lawn mower, lawn
sweep or other mechanical device used for cutting weeds or grass or collecting
leaves in such a manner as to permit or cause the weeds, grass clippings or
leaves discharged from said lawn mower, lawn sweep or other mechanical device
to be deposited, thrown, placed or blown onto any street, roadway, avenue,
highway, alley, gutter, storm drain or watercourse of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.027) (Ord. 49-2019, passed 4-11-2019) Penalty, see §
97.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.040 REMOVAL OF EARTH, STONE TO BE APPROVED BY CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or remove any earth or stone
from the streets, alleys, or wharf of the city without the permission of the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 97.035) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.041 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WORK WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; FEE.
   (A)   Work performed within public street rights-of-way, public utility
easements, within public alley rights-of-way, or within any property line
limits owned or controlled by the city shall require a work permit from the
city. The work permit shall be granted by the Director of Public Works upon a
determination by him or her that the permit should be granted and after the
payment of a fee of $20 for each application. It shall not be necessary for the
Department of Utilities, Divisions of Water and Sewer to pay the $20
application fee.
   (B)   Before approval is granted, the Public Works Director shall require
the applicant to file with the city an agreement or bond satisfactory to the
city, to indemnify and hold harmless the city from any and all claims,
injuries, damage and costs resulting to the city and arising and growing out of
the work. The bond requirements shall not apply to the Department of Utilities,
Divisions of Water and Sewer. No work on any property owned or controlled by
the city shall commence prior to issuance of a permit by the Public Works
Director’s office. All work shall be performed in compliance with city
specifications where applicable.
(Prior Code, § 97.036) (Ord. 47-1982, passed 6-3-1982) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.042 EXCAVATIONS IN RECENTLY IMPROVED PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS; FEE.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued by the Public Works Director for any
excavation or opening in any street or alley if the street or alley has been
completed less than five years, unless the applicant for the permit can clearly
demonstrate that the public health or safety requires that the proposed
excavation or opening be permitted. The burden of proof shall rest solely with
the applicant, and the final decision regarding the issuance of the permit
shall be that of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit an excavation or opening of such a
street or alley necessitated by an emergency condition in which event an
application for such a permit shall be filed as soon as practicable and in no
event later than 48 hours after the emergency excavation or opening. An
emergency condition shall be deemed one in which the public or an individual’s
health or safety requires immediate correction.
   (C)   Any excavation or opening in a street or alley completed less than
five years shall be made only on payment of a penalty, in advance, in the
amount of $500 within the first year following completion of the street or
alley; $400 within the second year following completion of the street or alley;
$350 within the third year following completion of the public street or alley;
$300 within the fourth year following completion of the public street or alley;
and $250 within the fifth year following completion of the public street or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 97.037) (Ord. 47-1982, passed 6-3-1982)
§ 97.043 INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED BY PERMIT APPLICANT.
   Any applicant for a permit shall complete the application form designated
for the purpose by the Director of Public Works and in addition shall provide
the following:
   (A)   An approved eight and one-half inch by 11-inch drawing of work to be
performed;
   (B)   Location of where the work is to be done;
   (C)   Name and address of the person, public utility or firm completing the
work;
   (D)   Duration of the work to be done and whether all necessary permits have
been obtained from other city, state and federal agencies; and
   (E)   Date the work is scheduled to begin and projected date of completion.
(Prior Code, § 97.038) (Ord. 47-1982, passed 6-3-1982)
§ 97.044 PRECAUTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY HOLDER OF EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   (A)   The location of all existing utilities shall be determined in advance
of any excavation by the permit holder and the necessary precautions shall be
taken to safeguard against damage during the execution of excavation work. The
cost of repairing any damage to pipes, driveways, culverts or any other
facilities due to any excavation activity shall be borne by the permit holder.
   (B)   Any permit holder who finds it necessary to block or cause to be
blocked any public right-of-way traveled by pedestrians or motor vehicle
traffic, shall maintain sufficient barricades, warning signs and lights to warn
and protect those using the public right-of-way during the entire period of
excavation. If the excavation occurs on a portion of a public right-of-way
traveled by motor vehicles, devices shall be placed, for main arterial streets,
at least 100 yards; and if a residential street, at least 50 yards. During the
night hours, self-illuminating warning devices shall be required on any right-
of-way traveled by motor vehicles and pedestrians.
   (C)   The holder of an excavation permit shall be responsible for providing
steel plates necessary to cover excavations so as to maintain motor vehicle and
pedestrian flows during the course of construction.
(Prior Code, § 97.039) (Ord. 47-1982, passed 6-3-1982) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.045 BACKFILLING AND RESTORATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All cuts, openings or excavations in a public street, alley or
sidewalk shall be filled in one-foot lifts compacted to within seven and one-
half inches of the top, next six inches shall be concrete with the last one and
one-half inches being the wearing surface.
   (B)   Any cut in easement shall be filled in one-foot lifts to the top and
then shall be covered with sod or sown with grass seed at the discretion of the
Director of Public Works.
   (C)   The work of paving shall be performed by the permit holder and shall
be in accordance with city specifications. Any costs or fees shall be assessed
to the permit holder in accordance with the schedule of fees approved by the
Department of Public Works. The city reserves the right to perform backfilling
paving and restoration at its discretion. When the city performs the backfill
operation, the costs of backfilling shall include labor, materials and
equipment. The costs shall be determined by the city on completion of all work
and shall be assessed to the permit holder.
   (D)   The city shall be notified by the permit holder as to when backfilling
will take place and in all cases where conditions permit, pavement must be
restored within 24 hours after backfilling is completed.
   (E)   If any settlement occurs within one year of restoration by the permit
holder, the city may take such corrective action as it deems appropriate and
charge the permit holder for the costs, including the restoration and
excavation, or give notice to the permit holder to restore the excavation or
pavement within ten days of receipt of notice or be in violation of this
section.
   (F)   No opening or excavation in any paved public street shall be permitted
to obstruct the flow of traffic without providing for an appropriate detour
around the opening or excavation or by either temporarily restoring the street
surface, covering the opening or excavation with adequate steel plates, or
other appropriate measures which would aid the flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 97.040) (Ord. 47-1982, passed 6-3-1982) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.046 SIDEWALK CUTS; DRIVEWAY APRONS.
   The Director of Public Works shall be given 24 hours notice prior to any
work to be performed by the permit holder. All sidewalk cuts shall be replaced
with original width unless the cut shall exceed 25 feet in length in which case
the sidewalk shall be formed and poured to a five-foot width and a thickness of
four inches with the exception of all driveway aprons. All residential driveway
aprons shall be a minimum of ten feet wide; all commercial driveway aprons
shall have a width of 15 feet minimum to 25 feet maximum with three feet flares
on either side at the edge of road or curb. The flares shall angle at an
extended three feet toward the property line. All driveway aprons shall be six
inches of thickness of concrete reinforced with number 10 welding wire mesh
from edge of the improved portion of the public right-of-way to the property
line.
(Prior Code, § 97.041) (Ord. 47-1982, passed 6-3-1982) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.047 PAVING CONTRACTS TO CONTAIN CERTAIN SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All contractors engaged in street, alley or sidewalk paving in the
city, shall be required to notify the Department of Utilities in writing of
their intention to excavate the street, alley or sidewalk ten days in advance,
so as to permit the Department of Utilities to locate for the contractor all
water mains, service lines and valve boxes. Stakes shall be driven by the
Department of Utilities to locate these water mains, service lines and valve
boxes. After the mains and service lines have been uncovered by the contractor,
the contractor shall give the Department of Utilities ample time to either
lower the mains and service lines, or to remove them to another location.
   (B)   Any property of the Department of Utilities lost or damaged by or
through the negligence of the contractor on making street or sidewalk
excavations shall be replaced by the Department of Utilities at the
contractor’s expense.
   (C)   The provisions contained in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
shall be inserted in all specifications for the paving of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks, and shall be considered a part of the contract for any paving
hereafter let.
(Prior Code, § 97.042) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.048 CONTRACTS WITH STATE DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways of the state, by authority of
KRS 177.042, 177.043 and 177.047, designates any streets or portions thereof,
including viaducts and bridges, as connecting links of state or federal
maintained highways, or necessary feeder streets thereto and thereby undertakes
the future maintenance, repair, construction or reconstruction of those
streets, bridges, or viaducts in the manner provided by the aforesaid statutes,
the Mayor is hereby expressly authorized, instructed and directed to enter into
any and all contracts and agreements with the Department of Highways necessary
to carry out the purposes and provisions of those statutes.
   (B)   Should the Department of Highways of the state construct or
reconstruct any streets in the city, the work shall be done by the Department
of Highways as the agent of the city, as set out in KRS 177.044(3).
(Prior Code, § 97.043) (Ord. 46-1957, passed 8-13-1957)
§ 97.049 EXCAVATIONS FOR CELLARS, CISTERNS, WELLS TO BE ENCLOSED.
   Any person who shall dig or cause to be dug any cellar, cistern, well or
other excavation on any unenclosed ground or elsewhere within the city, shall
first enclose the same by a substantial fence or railing, and may use when
necessary for that purpose for a reasonable time, not exceeding two feet in
width of any adjacent street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 97.044) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.050 DRIVING ON BARRICADED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over, along or across any of
the streets or avenues of the city where the streets or avenues are in process
of improvement and where barricades have been erected in order to close the
streets and avenues to travel during time occupied in improvements.
(Prior Code, § 97.045) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.051 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any red lights,
barricades or any other thing used as signals where improvements or repairs are
being made in the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.046) Penalty, see §
97.999
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 97.065 CITY NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Numbers shall be placed on the buildings fronting on the streets
and avenues within the city.
      (2)   The avenues and streets running parallel to the Ohio River shall be
numbered, starting at First Street with 100 numbers allotted to each block,
extending through to the eastern city limits, with the odd numbers on the north
side of the street and the even numbers on the south side of the street,
allowing 20 feet to 25 feet per house, as follows: between 1st Street and 2nd
Street 100 block, between 2nd Street and 3rd Street 200 block, between 16th and
17th Street 1600 block, and so on.
   (B)   (1)   Starting at Front Street and numbering the streets at right
angles to the river, giving each block 100 numbers, the method now in use, odd
numbers on the west side and even numbers on the east side, 20 feet to 25 feet
per number and carrying this plan back over the hill to the city limits and
applying it to the different subdivisions.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to locate each house, fix
the numbers therefor, and to prepare a suitable map on which all house numbers
shall be kept.
      (3)   As soon as the numbers are fixed for the different avenues,
streets, courts and places, he or she shall leave or cause to be left at each
building or with the owner or agent for same, the proper number in writing on a
card prepared for this purpose.
   (C)   An exception to the above policy shall be to allow Residential Estate
Zoning Districts to be numbered in a manner to be determined by the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 97.060) (Ord. 53-1994, passed 4-21-1994)
PROJECTING SIGNS, MARQUEES, AWNINGS
§ 97.080 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations set out in this subchapter shall apply to and be
enforced with respect to the construction, erection and maintenance of all
signs, marquees, awnings and canopies projecting into and over the public
sidewalks and rights-of-way of streets and public ways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.075) (Ord. 32-1962, passed 6-24-1962)
§ 97.081 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, replace or relocate
within the city any sign or other advertising structure without first obtaining
from the Building Inspector a permit so to do and without first paying the fee
required therefor by the Building Code of the city. All illuminated signs shall
in addition be subject to inspection and approval of the Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall have the right, and it shall be his or
her duty, from time to time and so often as he or she shall consider it
necessary, to inspect awnings and canopies regulated by this subchapter for the
purpose of determining whether they are in safe and secure condition. In the
event the awnings and canopies are in an insecure and unsafe condition as to
meet the approval of the Building Inspector, the owner thereof shall be
required at his or her expense to repair and recondition the awnings and
canopies and to place them in a safe and secure condition.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall not issue the permit herein required
until the person, firm or corporation requesting same has filed with the City
Clerk one of the following:
      (1)   A bond to indemnify and hold harmless the city from any claim or
cause of action which might be asserted against the city as a result of acts or
omissions/negligence in erecting or maintaining the proposed sign; or
      (2)   A public liability insurance policy in an amount designated by the
Building Inspector insuring the city from any loss by reason of any damages
sustained by property or persons, including the city, occasioned by acts or
omissions/negligence in erecting or maintaining the proposed sign.
(Prior Code, § 97.076) (Ord. 32-1962, passed 6-24-1962; Ord. 115-1983, passed
8-18-1983) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.082 MAXIMUM PROJECTION OF SIGNS.
   Every projecting sign shall be placed at least ten feet above the public
sidewalk or public ground over which it is erected and shall extend a distance
not greater than ten feet from the face of the wall to which it is attached or
the property line. No sign or part thereof shall extend nearer the curb line
than one and one-half feet.
(Prior Code, § 97.077) (Ord. 32-1962, passed 6-24-1962)
§ 97.083 BRACING, ANCHORAGE, AND SUPPORTS FOR PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Projecting signs exceeding ten square feet in area or 50 pounds in
weight shall not be attached to or supported by frame buildings nor the wood
framework of a building. Such signs shall be attached to masonry walls, metal
frames or supports with galvanized expansion bolts at least three-eighths inch
in diameter, shall be fixed in the wall, metal frame or support by means of
bolts extending through the wall, metal frame or support, and shall contain
proper size metal washer or plate on the inside of the wall, metal frame, or
support.
   (B)   But no projecting sign shall be secured with wire, strips of wood, or
nails, nor shall any projecting sign be hung or secured to any other sign.
   (C)   No support for any sign or any portion thereof shall be placed on or
in the ground on the public sidewalk or right-of-way without prior approval of
both the Building Inspector and the Board of Commissioners. If the Board of
Commissioners grants permission to allow construction of a sign on public
property not at that time being used, it shall be subject to the terms and
conditions which may be set out by the Board of Commissioners and will always
be subject to revocation on 30 days’ notice by the Board of Commissioners. The
person requesting the permit will be responsible for removing the sign and
restoring the grounds to the condition they were in at the time the sign was
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 97.078) (Ord. 32-1962, passed 6-24-1962; Ord. 53-1976, passed
10-21-1976) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.084 CONSTRUCTION OF MARQUEES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MARQUEE. Includes any hood or awning or permanent construction projecting
from the wall of a building above an entrance and extending over a sidewalk or
unimproved portion of the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Construction.
      (1)   All marquees, including the anchors, bolts, supports, rods and
braces thereof, shall be constructed of incombustible materials and shall be
subject to the approval and inspection of the Building Inspector in compliance
with the Building Code of the city and by the Electrical Inspector in
compliance with the Electrical Code of the city.
      (2)   The roofs of all marquees shall be properly guttered and connected
by down spouts to a sewer, so that the water therefrom will not drip or flow
onto public property.
      (3)   The roofs of all marquees shall be used for no other purpose than
to form and constitute a roof.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   No portion of a marquee shall be less than ten feet above the level
of the sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
      (2)   No marquee shall be permitted to extend beyond a point greater than
ten feet from the face of the wall to which it is attached, measuring from the
point of the marquee nearest the wall, nor shall such marquee extend nearer the
curb line than one and one-half feet.
      (3)   No marquee shall be longer than the length of the side of the
building to which it is attached, except where the building is located at the
corner of an intersection, a marquee may extend beyond the corner of the
building for a distance no greater than the width of the marquee.
   (D)   Erection requirements.
      (1)   Marquees shall be supported solely by the building to which they
are attached, and no columns or posts shall be permitted as support therefore.
      (2)   The roof of any marquee shall be designed and constructed to
support a live load of not less than 100 pounds per square foot. The minimum
wind pressure requirements shall be not less than 40 pounds per square foot of
area.
      (3)   No marquee shall be erected on any building of wood frame
construction unless attached to the masonry, concrete or steel supports of the
building.
      (4)   Signs attached to or hung from a marquee shall be completely within
the border line of the marquee outer edge, and shall in no instance be lower
than ten feet above the sidewalk or public ground. No sign or advertising
material shall exceed five feet in height exclusive of the name of the
establishment occupying the building. No advertising material shall be placed
upon the roof of any marquee.
(Prior Code, § 97.079) (Ord. 32-1962, passed 6-24-1962) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.085 AWNINGS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AWNING. Includes any structure made of cloth or metal with a metal frame
attached to a building and projecting over a sidewalk or public ground, when it
is so erected as to permit its being raised to a position flat against the
building when not in use.
      CANOPY. Includes any structure, other than an awning, made of cloth or
metal with metal frames attached to a building projecting over the public
domain, and carried by a frame attached to a building projecting over the
public domain, and carried by a frame attached in or to the sidewalk or ground.
   (B)   Construction materials.
      (1)   Awnings may be constructed of cloth or metal, however, all frames
and supports shall be of metal.
      (2)   Canopies may be constructed of cloth or metal hood, however, all
frames and supports shall be of metal.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   All awnings shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest
portion thereof shall be not less than eight feet above the level of the
sidewalk or public ground.
      (2)   All canopies shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest
portion thereof shall be not less than nine feet above the level of the
sidewalk or public ground.
      (3)   No awning or canopy shall be permitted to extend beyond a point one
and one-half feet inside the curb line, nor shall same extend a distance
greater than ten feet from the face of the wall to which it is attached,
measuring from the point of same nearest thereto.
      (4)   No awning shall be designed, constructed or erected of a greater
width than shall withstand a wind pressure of not less than 40 pounds per
square foot of area and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required
by the Building Code or other ordinances of the city. No canopy shall be
permitted to exceed eight feet in width.
   (D)   Erection requirements.
      (1)   Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported by the
building. Posts or columns beyond the building line shall be permitted for
awnings. No awning shall be attached to the wood jambs, frames or other wood
members of a building (frame building excepted) when the building is less than
ten feet from public property.
      (2)   The framework of all canopies shall be so designed as to meet the
approval of the Building Inspector in compliance with the Building Code of the
city. All frames and supports shall be of metal and designed to withstand a
wind pressure of not less than 40 pounds per square foot of area.
   (E)   Advertising. No advertising shall be placed on any awning or canopy,
except that the name of the owner and the business, industry or pursuit
conducted within the premises may be painted in a space not exceeding eight
inches in height on the front and side portions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 97.080) (Ord. 32-1962, passed 6-24-1962; Ord. 23-1965, passed
11-8-1965; Ord. 115-1983, passed 8-18-1983) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.086 BANNERS AND SIGNS ACROSS STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
erect, install or hang any sign or banner of whatsoever material across, over,
above, and from side to side of any street or public way within the city unless
prior approval is granted by the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   All fines, forfeitures and court costs collected by reason of the
violation of this section, with the exception of sums collected as costs for
the use and benefit of the Boyd County Law Library, shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city and be used in defraying the cost of city government.
(Prior Code, § 97.081) (Ord. 32-1967, passed 11-27-1967; Ord. 108-2007, passed
9-6-2007) Penalty, see §
97.999
SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION POLICY
§ 97.100 POLICY PRIORITIES; COST SHARING.
   (A)   The city may choose to fully fund sidewalk, concrete replacement and/
or installation projects. The sidewalk replacement policy shall be administered
by the City Engineer and shall be prioritized and defined as follows:
      (1)   Along residential lots on major and minor arterial and collector
streets;
      (2)   Adjacent to city owned property;
      (3)   Part of street improvement projects;
      (4)   Within two blocks of a school;
      (5)   Adjacent to government buildings;
      (6)   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development funded projects;
      (7)   Projects funded by a grant;
      (8)   Patches and point repairs; and
      (9)   Sidewalk replacement at or near a bus stop shall be reviewed so
that handicap lifts can be accommodated, if needed.
   (B)   To facilitate a safe walkable city, the city has established the cost
sharing program as follows.
      (1)   Residential lot sidewalks, curbs, driveway approaches and retaining
walls within the public right-of-way may be replaced on a 75/25 basis to the
standard residential sidewalk width.
      (2)   Institutional, non-profit, commercial and industrial sidewalks may
be replaced on a 75/25 basis. In regard to curbs and driveway approaches, this
work shall be done to the standard limit of a commercial sidewalk under the
same basis.
      (3)   The city will pay 100% for replacement of ADA accessible ramps on
residential lots.
      (4)   New sidewalk, including retaining walls, and/or curbs along
residential lots may be installed on a 75/25 basis.
      (5)   Sidewalks damaged by property owners, contractors or others shall
be paid 100% by the property owner or responsible party.
      (6)   New driveway approaches, parking pads or other concrete work not
defined above shall be paid 100% by the property owner unless otherwise
approved by commission.
      (7)   Sidewalks including ADA accessible ramps, curbs, retaining walls,
driveway approaches required to be replaced and/or installed with a new
development or redevelopment project will be paid 100% by property owner.
      (8)   Nothing in this policy shall prevent a property owner from paying
100% of costs upon approval by the city. This may be accomplished by:
         (a)   Contracting the work with a private contractor and securing all
permits from the city to work within the right-of-way;
         (b)   Entering into an agreement to have the city’s concrete
contractor install the improvements (pending feasibility and availability of
resources); or
         (c)   Installing the work yourself. (Owner must obtain permit,
construct per Ashland specifications and pass inspection.)
      (9)   The City Commission may approve special projects for sidewalks or
other concrete projects by formal action.
      (10)   This policy is subject to available funding and the priority of
individual projects shall be determined by the city.
      (11)   The city will not install or replace any concrete on private
property.
      (12)   All cost participation projects require City Manager approval.
      (13)   The city shall be the sole interpreter of this policy.
(Prior Code, § 97.090) (Ord. 48-2015, passed 5-28-2015)
§ 97.101 AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES.
   CITY OF ASHLAND CONCRETE
   REPLACEMENT PROGRAM
   AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES
   THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO THIS day of ______, 20___, by and between the
City of Ashland, Kentucky, 1700 Greenup Avenue, Ashland, Kentucky, 41101,
hereinafter referred to as the “City” and _______________, Ashland, Kentucky,
hereinafter referred to as the “Applicant”.
   WITNESSETH THAT:
   WHEREAS, the Applicant has requested installation or replacement of concrete
fronting the property located at ________________, and
   WHEREAS, the City has examined the area abutting the property located at
_____________ and has determined that the installation or replacement of said
concrete under the City’s Concrete Replacement Program would be both desirable
and appropriate;
   NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed and covenanted by and between the
parties hereto that the City agrees to the concrete construction under a
Concrete Replacement Program at ___________ and the Applicant agrees to pay all
or a portion of the construction costs necessary, as defined below, to install
or replace the concrete abutting the property at said location, and each and
all of the further and mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set out to
be performed by both or either of the said parties, all of which said covenants
or agreements, collectively and severally, are mutually agreed to be material
and a part of this agreement as follows:
SECTION 1.
   The construction costs for the concrete installation or replacement abutting
the property located at ____________ has been estimated to cost $______. The
Applicant’s cost shall be $______. This cost was calculated in the following
manner:
SECTION 2.
   The Finance Department certifies that the property owner is not delinquent
on payment of any City property taxes.
SECTION 3.
   The ownership of the construction under this agreement shall at all times be
vested in the City, its successors and assigns.
SECTION 4.
   The purpose of this agreement is to install new or replace old, existing
sidewalks, driveway entrances, steps, curbs or retaining walls in the public
rights-of- way that are in bad repair and not for the purpose of any
construction on private property.
SECTION 5.
   The Applicant has attached to this agreement payment in the amount of
$______ as the Applicant’s portion of the estimated cost of the concrete
installation or replacement. Payment will be used solely for the anticipated
work. The City represents completion of replacement within reasonable time.
SECTION 6.
   The City in no way warrants the workmanship of the concrete contractor, nor
the method of installation.
SECTION 7.
   This agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between
the parties and shall not be altered or amended by any other oral statements or
representatives made by the parties.
(Prior Code, § 97.091) (Ord. 48-2015, passed 5-28-2015)
STREET NAMES
§ 97.115 AUTHORITY TO NAME STREETS.
   Streets are named only by ordinance adopted by the Ashland Board of City
Commissioners after a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 97.110) (Ord. 116-1992, passed 8-27-1992)
§ 97.116 PRECEDENTS NOT ESTABLISHED.
   No action naming a new street, or changing the name of an existing street
shall create a precedent. Renaming of an existing. street shall not be a
regular occurrence. Unless exceptional circumstances exist justifying such
action, streets shall not be routinely named for a living person.
(Prior Code, § 97.111) (Ord. 116-1992, passed 8-27-1992)
§ 97.117 PROPOSAL TO NAME OR RENAME STREET.
   (A)   Requests to name or rename a street must be submitted in writing to
the City Manager who will review the proposal for completeness.
   (B)   The proposal shall provide the following:
      (1)   The specific street proposed to be named or renamed, including the
exact limits or cross streets at the ends;
      (2)   The full form of the name proposed, as well as the actual
recommended name for the street;
      (3)   The origin or meaning of the proposed name;
      (4)   If the name is of a person, a brief biography, including the birth
and deaths dates (if known);
      (5)   A brief explanation of why the street should be named or renamed
with the proposed name, including, if applicable, an explanation of how the
name and/or the person is or has been associated with the area or street;
      (6)   If available, letters from appropriate organizations and
individuals which furnish evidence of substantial local support for the
request;
      (7)   The proposal shall include the names and addresses of all affected
property owners and tenants for formal notice; and
      (8)   The local postmaster shall be notified in ten days.
   (C)   City staff shall provide similar information, if possible, on any
existing street name which is requested for change or removal.
   (D)   (1)   The City Manager may request additional information or
documentation in order to assist the City Manager in his or her recommendation
to the Board of Commissioners for their consideration and potential action.
      (2)   Failure of the person or organization to comply with any reasonable
request may result in rejecting the proposal.
(Prior Code, § 97.112) (Ord. 116-1992, passed 8-27-1992)
§ 97.118 STANDARDS.
   (A)   General criteria.
      (1)   Names with several parts or names difficult to pronounce may not
regularly be considered suitable since they do not generally gain public
acceptance.
      (2)   Where possible, names should provide a useful function such as
identifying an improved street.
      (3)   Unofficial names in use and which do not appear on current maps but
which have become established through local tradition will be given priority
when selecting an official name.
      (4)   A name proposed for a particular street routinely may not be
considered suitable if it duplicates or is too similar to the name of an
existing street.
      (5)   The continuity of existing street names and identification of such
streets should be maintained in order to facilitate mail delivery, the locate
of addresses and for emergency access.
      (6)   Names which, by community standards, would not be considered in
good taste or discriminatory, obscene or blasphemous shall not be considered
suitable.
   (B)   Criteria specific to personal names.
      (1)   Names of persons will be used only if it is determined to be in the
public interest to honor the person for historical or commemorative reasons.
      (2)   A person’s epithet, nickname or title may be used if it would
provide a more appropriate, interesting or enduring name.
      (3)   Full names will not routinely be considered as suitable unless they
are short, euphonic or would be required because using only a part of the name
would render it unidentifiable.
      (4)   Names may not be routinely considered suitable unless the person
was associated with or made a significant contribution to the city or the area
in which the street is located.
      (5)   In and of itself, ownership of land, development of the land or a
financial contribution to a street usually will not be considered sufficient
grounds to honor a person.
      (6)   The city will not routinely consider renaming a street that is
already named after a person.
(Prior Code, § 97.113) (Ord. 116-1992, passed 8-27-1992)
§ 97.119 RECOMMENDATION OF CITY MANAGER.
   The Ashland Board of Commissioners may consider the recommendation of the
City Manager on the street naming or renaming before requesting an ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 97.114) (Ord. 116-1992, passed 8-27-1992)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 97.130 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person who has filed a written application for a special event
permit.
   CITY. The City of Ashland, Kentucky.
   CITY PARK. Any property in the city designated as a park, playground,
recreational facility, swimming pool or hike and bike path, specifically
including without limitation, Central Park, the Port of Ashland and Broadway
Square, and shall include buildings, stages, parking lots and driveways in such
areas.
   FIRST AMENDMENT ACTIVITY. All expressive and associative activity on public
streets, sidewalks and in parks that is protected by the United States and
Kentucky Constitutions, including speech, press, assembly and the right to
petition, but does not include commercial advertising.
   FIRST AMENDMENT EVENT. An event where the sole or principal object is First
Amendment activity.
   PARADE. Any assembly, march, demonstration or procession upon public
streets, sidewalks or parks within the city including persons, animals or
vehicles that is reasonably likely to interfere with the normal flow or
regulation of traffic or use of streets, sidewalks, parks and related
facilities.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a special event permit is granted pursuant to
this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, entity, association or organization.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A temporary event, gathering or organized activity,
including, but not limited to, parades, bike races, marathons, walk-a-thons,
charity running events, fireworks displays, concerts, carnivals, other types of
races and festivals, First Amendment events, or any other event which involves
one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Closing a public street;
      (2)   Blocking or restricting city-owned property;
      (3)   Blocking or restricting usual and customary use of or access to
city streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way;
      (4)   Blocking or restricting access to or limiting use of city parks;
      (5)   Sale of merchandise, food or beverages on city-owned property;
      (6)   Erection of a tent on city-owned property;
      (7)   Installation of a stage, band-shell, trailer, van, portable
building, grandstand or bleachers on city-owned property or exclusive use of
such existing facilities;
      (8)   Placement of temporary no-parking signs in a public right-of-way or
on city-owned property; or
      (9)   Placement of pedestrian boundary markers on city-owned property.
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. Written authorization from the City Manager or his or
her designee to hold a specific special event.
(Prior Code, § 97.125) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.131 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold a special event, sponsor a
special event or cause a special event to be held without first having obtained
a special event permit from the city.
   (B)   No special event permit shall be denied, nor shall the applicant be
given less favorable consideration as to time, manner or place based upon:
      (1)   Race, color, creed, religion, gender, domestic relationship status,
sexual orientation, transgender, gender identity or gender expression, national
origin, or political affiliation of the applicant and/or the participants of
the special event;
      (2)   The message of the special event, or the identity or associational
relationships of the applicant and/or participants; or
      (3)   Any assumption or predictions as to the amount of hostility which
may be aroused in the public by the content of speech or message conveyed by
the special event, provided that reasonable accommodation as to time, manner,
and place may be required in order for the city to provide the resources
necessary for police, fire and emergency services to preserve and protect
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   A special event permit is not required for:
      (1)   Processions of vehicles operated in compliance with ordinary
traffic laws or a procession of pedestrians along or upon public sidewalks,
public parks, or private property;
      (2)   First amendment activity conducted entirely on sidewalks, in public
parks or on private property which does not interfere with the natural flow or
progress of traffic, or the use of streets, sidewalks, parks or related
facilities, or other previously scheduled events; or
      (3)   Events conducted under the supervision of or with the permission of
a governmental entity on property owned, leased, or operated by a governmental
entity other than the city, if the event does not require the closing or
rerouting of a public street, the entity employs certified peace officers to
provide security for the event, and the entity adopts and provides to the city
a written plan addressing emergency services, crowd, traffic and parking
control.
(Prior Code, § 97.126) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020) Penalty, §
97.999
§ 97.132 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A special event permit shall not be issued until a completed special event
permit application has been filed with the City Manager upon the form developed
by the City Manager for that purpose, together with any additional information
requested, and payment of all applicable fees are received by the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.127) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.133 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant shall file a special event permit application with the
city upon forms provided by the city.
   (B)   The special event permit application shall set forth as a minimum the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
name, address and telephone number of applicant’s designated representative if
applicant is an entity, association or organization;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the person conducting the
special event if different from the applicant with a written statement from the
person conducting the special event showing applicant’s authority to make the
special event permit application;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the event representative and who will be responsible for conducting the special
event;
      (4)   The proposed location(s) for the special event;
      (5)   The purpose of the special event;
      (6)   The date(s) and time(s) the special event will start and terminate;
      (7)   The time at which on-site activities in preparation for the special
event will begin;
      (8)   The date when clean up of the property will be complete;
      (9)   The approximate number of persons who are attending per day for the
duration of special event;
      (10)   The number and types of animals and vehicles that are part of the
special event;
      (11)   The location and size of tents, awnings, canopies, food service
booths or other temporary structures shall be shown on a map;
      (12)   Details for all signage shall be included;
      (13)   The location and orientation of loudspeakers and any other
amplification devices shall be shown on a map;
      (14)   Details regarding food service including planned cooking;
      (15)   Details regarding whether alcohol will be sold or allowed;
      (16)   Details for planned amusement rides;
      (17)   Details regarding any traffic control plan;
      (18)   Map(s) showing streets and pedestrian ways that are impacted as
well as site setup indicating all equipment that will be used by the special
event;
      (19)   Proof of insurance for the special event;
      (20)   For parades also include:
         (a)   A route map; and
         (b)   Approximate number of participants and type of participants
(e.g., animals, floats and the like).
      (21)   Any other information which the City Manager or designee finds
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 97.128) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.134 INSURANCE.
   (A)   All applicants, by virtue of the application, agree to indemnify and
hold the city harmless from any liability as a result of their activity
pursuant to the special event permit. Additionally, all applicants shall
procure and maintain at all times during their use of public facilities
pursuant to a special event permit insurance in such amounts and with such
coverage as shall reasonably be required by the city and shall name the city as
an additional insured on all coverage. The amounts and type of insurance
required, if any, shall be determined by the City Manager, based upon the
nature of the activity and the risk involved. An applicant shall provide the
city with a certificate from an insurer evidencing such coverage prior to
applicant’s use of the public facility, and within the time prescribed by the
City Manager. The certificate shall also provide that the insurer shall give
the city reasonable advance notice of insurer’s intent to cancel any insurance
coverage.
   (B)   To avoid interference with protected rights of speech and assembly,
when the permit requirements set forth herein for the issuance of a special
event permit require a certificate of insurance, an applicant under this
subchapter shall only be required to provide insurance based upon needs
directly associated with the event and not on the basis of possible disruption
of the event by protestors or other persons who might be opposed to the speech
or assembly. The City Manager may waive such insurance requirements in the
interest of permitting protected speech and assembly to occur when an applicant
provides evidence of financial inability to obtain insurance at a reasonable
cost.
(Prior Code, § 97.129) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.135 FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Ashland Board of City Commissioners authorizes the City Manager or
his or her designee to establish special event permit fees.
   (B)   Applicant shall pay all required fees with the special event permit
application. Applicant shall also be required to pay all fees and costs
required by other city ordinances to conduct specific activities in conjunction
with or as part of a special event.
   (C)   If the city determines that a special event may require the special
attention and involvement of city personnel or city facilities, the city shall
notify the applicant. Prior to issuance of a special event permit:
      (1)   The applicant and city shall agree upon the estimated costs the
city will incur specifically as a result of the special event, and the
applicant shall pay not less than 75% of the estimated costs upon receipt of
the permit. After the conclusion of the event, the city will review all city
costs incurred and provide to applicant a final billing statement which shall
be due and payable upon receipt. If actual costs are less than the estimate
received, a refund shall be provided to applicant; and
      (2)   The applicant shall agree in writing to pay any additional costs to
the city subsequently incurred as a result of the special event within five
days of the date upon which the city informs the applicant of the amount of
such additional costs.
   (D)   No special event permit fee shall be charged for a First Amendment
event. An applicant for a special event permit shall pay fees for street
closures to conduct specific activities in conjunction with or as part of a
First Amendment event, and any other costs, fees and the like, incurred by the
city for personnel costs directly related to the First Amendment event
Including Police and Streets Departments’ overtime, but the amount of the fees
shall not be in excess of the city’s actual cost to close the street(s) for
traffic control and additional personnel fees and costs. The City Manager may,
in his or her discretion, waive payment of costs and fees for First Amendment
events if the applicant lacks the financial resources to pay the fee.
(Prior Code, § 97.130) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020; Ord. 178, 2022,
passed 11-17-2022)
§ 97.136 TIMEFRAMES AND DEADLINES.
   (A)   A special event permit application shall be filed no less than 45 days
before the commencement of the proposed special event. The City Manager or his
or her designee may consider a special event application that is filed less
than 45 days before the commencement of the proposed special event where good
and compelling cause is shown.
   (B)   The city may issue a special event permit for a First Amendment event
when the special event permit application is filed less than 45 days before the
commencement of the First Amendment event, provided that there is adequate time
for the city to process the application and to assure that there are adequate
traffic measures in place for the orderly movement of the First Amendment event
participants and traffic. The city and the applicant shall communicate with the
Police Department and Fire Department prior to the First Amendment event.
   (C)   When a timeframe or deadline established in this section results in an
application being due on a weekend, holiday or a day the city is closed for
business, the application shall be due on the business day immediately
following said weekend, holiday or closed business day.
(Prior Code, § 97.131) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.137 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   A special event permit will be issued if the City Manager, or his or her
designee, finds that the following standards for issuance of a special event
permit are met.
   (A)   The special event will not unnecessarily interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of traffic near its location or route.
   (B)   The special event will not require the diversion of such a number of
police officers to properly police the special event locale or line of movement
and the adjacent areas as to prevent adequate police protection for the
remainder of the city.
   (C)   The concentration of people, animals and vehicles at assembly points
will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection or ambulance
service to areas near such assembly points or the city.
   (D)   A parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point of
termination without unreasonable delays in route.
   (E)   Other licenses and permits, restrictions, regulations, fees for the
city services, safeguards or other conditions deemed necessary by individual
city departments for the safe and orderly conduct of a special event are
requested, submitted and approved (i.e., health permit applications, agreement
with Police Department for police coverage, agreement with Public Works
Department regarding cost associated with street closure and the like).
   (F)   A proper application for issuance of a special event permit has been
received with all necessary information and no grounds for denial of an
application as hereinafter specified exist.
   (G)   The use of amplification devices in the requested special event will
not result in unreasonably loud noise in violation of the city’s noise
ordinance, Ord. 108-2008 (Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances); or if such
amplification devices may result in noise levels in excess of those allowed
under said ordinance, the City Manager or his or her designee finds that:
      (1)   The use of amplification devices otherwise in violation of the
city’s noise ordinance within the context of the special event requested will
not unduly deprive the public of safe, comfortable, convenient and peaceful
enjoyment of public streets, parks, businesses or residences adjacent to the
parameters of the special event;
      (2)   The use of amplification equipment otherwise in violation of the
Ashland noise ordinance within the context of the special event requested will
not unduly interfere with the usual and customary operation of a school, church
or place of worship, or courthouse; and
      (3)   The use of amplification devices otherwise in violation of the city
noise ordinance within the context of the special event requested will not
unduly interfere with the conduct of another previously approved special event.
(Prior Code, § 97.132) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020; Ord. 103, 2022,
passed 6-10-2022)
§ 97.138 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall deny issuance of a
special event permit if:
      (1)   The special event will conflict in time or location with another
special event or event;
      (2)   The applicant fails to comply with the regulations of this
subchapter, any other city ordinance or any other applicable law;
      (3)   The applicant makes or allows the making of a false or misleading
statement or omission of material fact on a special event application;
      (4)   The applicant has violated this subchapter or has had a special
event permit revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The applicant fails to provide proof of a license or permit
required by any city ordinance or by other applicable law for the special
event;
      (6)   The applicant fails to provide proof that the insurance
requirements for the special event have been met;
      (7)   The special event would severely hinder the delivery of normal or
emergency public services or constitutes a public threat; or
      (8)   The applicant fails to timely pay any costs associated with the
proposed issuance of the special event permit.
   (B)   If the City Manager, or his or her designee, determines that the
special event permit shall be denied, the City Manager, or his or her designee,
shall consider alternatives to the time, place or manner of the special event
that would allow the special event to occur.
   (C)   A special event permit shall be revoked upon the following conditions.
      (1)   If the Police Chief, Fire Chief, Risk Manager, Building Official or
other city official, or their designated representatives, find that any of the
provisions of this subchapter, another city ordinance, or other applicable law
is being violated, they shall immediately notify the City Manager, or his or
her designee, and based on that information, the City Manager, or his or her
designee, shall determine whether the special event permit shall be revoked.
      (2)   When, in the judgment of any of the above-named city officials, a
violation exists which requires immediate abatement, the city official shall
have authority to revoke a special event permit in the absence or
unavailability of the City Manager, or his or her designee.
      (3)   The applicant made or allowed to be made a false or misleading
statement or omission of material fact on a special event application that was
not discovered until after the special event permit was issued.
      (4)   The applicant fails to timely pay as required any costs or fees due
subsequent to the issuance of a special event permit.
(Prior Code, § 97.133) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.139 CONDUCT OF SPECIAL EVENTS REGULATED; NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT.
   Special event permits are applicant- and place-specific. No permit or
conditionally approved permit application may be transferred or assigned from
person to person, to another entity, or place to place. Rain dates and/or rain
locations will be at the discretion of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 97.134) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.140 APPEAL.
   If the City Manager, or his or her designee, denies the issuance of a
special event permit, or if the city revokes an issued special event permit,
the applicant shall promptly be notified in writing. Such written notice shall
include the reasons for the decision to deny or revoke the special event
permit. The applicant or permittee may appeal the denial or revocation to the
Board of Commissioners, which shall consider any such appeal at its next
regularly scheduled meeting at least seven days after the receipt of the notice
of an appeal.
(Prior Code, § 97.135) (Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or
by both a fine and imprisonment. Every day any violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
97.002 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $250 nor more than the limits
set forth in KRS 534.040. Every day any violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating §
97.131 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000
per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 97.999) (Ord. 49-2015, passed 5-28-2015; Ord. 49-2019, passed 4-
11-2019; Ord. 157, 2020, passed 11-20-2020)
CHAPTER 98: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Destruction of flowers, trees and the like
   
98.02   Planting on city property prohibited except by city
   
98.03   Prohibited on private property when intersection obscured
   
98.04   Removal by city
Street Trees
   
98.15   Definitions
   
98.16   Street tree species to be planted
   
98.17   Spacing
   
98.18   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
98.19   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
98.20   Distance from utilities
   
98.21   Public tree care
   
98.22   Tree topping
 
   
98.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 DESTRUCTION OF FLOWERS, TREES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than duly-authorized agents of
the city, to destroy, remove, mutilate, deface or molest any flower, plant,
vine, shrub or trees, in or on any public property within the city, without
first obtaining written permission so to do from the Park Board.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.02 PLANTING ON CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED EXCEPT BY CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, to plant, set out
or maintain any trees or shrubbery on public or city property within the city.
All shrubbery heretofore planted and now standing on city property shall be
removed by the person owning the private property abutting and adjacent thereto
within ten days after having been duly notified so to do by the office of the
City Manager. Live, growing and mature trees now located on city property which
do not constitute an impairment of visibility in the operation of traffic at
intersections shall be permitted to remain so long as the trees do not
constitute a menace to the public safety, and in no event shall any such live,
growing and mature trees be removed without the consent of the Park Board.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. 20-1954, passed 9-24-1954) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 PROHIBITED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WHEN INTERSECTION OBSCURED.
   No person shall plant, set out or maintain on privately owned property
located at or near the intersections of streets any trees or shrubbery which,
by reason of close proximity to the intersections, constitute an impairment of
visibility in the movement of traffic, create a dangerous condition with
respect thereto, and a menace to the public welfare and safety. The owners of
such obstructions shall remove the obstruction within 30 days after written
notice from the office of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) (Ord. 20-1954, passed 9-24-1954) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the case of the failure or refusal of any person to remove any of the
structures, shrubbery, trees and other obstructions prohibited by §§
98.02 and
98.03 within the limit of time fixed by the notice provided for in those
sections the city shall have the right to remove the structures, shrubbery,
trees and other obstructions at the cost of the abutting property owner or the
owner of the land on which the obstruction is located.
(Prior Code, § 98.04) (Ord. 20-1954, passed 9-24-1954)
STREET TREES
§ 98.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 98.15) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 98.16 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The Park Board shall maintain an official street tree species list for the
city. No other species may be planted as street trees without written prior
approval of the Park Board.
(Prior Code, § 98.16) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 98.17 SPACING.
   (A)   No trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by the Park Board.
   (B)   The Park Board official street tree list shall designate trees by the
three sizes.
(Prior Code, § 98.17) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.18 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
98.17, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
(Prior Code, § 98.18) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.19 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 98.19) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.20 DISTANCE FROM UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
98.16 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 98.20) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.21 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city has the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. Nothing
contained herein shall affect the City Manager’s exercise of discretion as to
normal trimming.
   (B)   The City Park Board shall recommend to the City Manager removal of any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest. The City Manager shall have final authority. This section does not
prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing
that the selection and location of said trees is in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 98.21) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 98.22 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any tree located in the parks and Downtown Business District,
park tree, or other tree on public property without prior City Manager
approval. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this subchapter at the determination of the Park Board and/or
City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 98.22) (Ord. 63-2018, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both a fine and imprisonment. Every
day any violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 98.99)
CHAPTER 99: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
99.01   Findings and intent
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Application to city, county and state facilities
   
99.04   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
99.05   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
99.06   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor arenas and stadiums, and in the
vicinity of UK King’s Daughters
   
99.07   Reasonable distance
   
99.08   Where smoking is not regulated
   
99.09   Declaration of establishment as non- smoking
   
99.10   Posting of signs
   
99.11   Non-retaliation and non-waiver of rights
   
99.12   Enforcement
 
   
99.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Smoking on mass transit vehicles, see §§
95.30 through
95.32
   Smoking policy of the city, see §
31.050
§ 99.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   The Board of City Commissioners finds that:
   (A)   In June 2006 the U.S. Surgeon General issued a report reviewing the
health consequences of involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke. The report
concluded that:
      (1)   Secondhand smoke causes premature death and disease in children and
adults who do not smoke;
      (2)   Children exposed to secondhand smoke are at an increased risk for
sudden death syndrome (SIDS), acute respiratory infections, ear problems and
more sever asthma;
      (3)   Exposure of adults to secondhand smoke has immediate adverse
effects on the cardiovascular system and causes coronary heart disease and lung
cancer;
      (4)   The scientific evidence indicates that there is no risk-free level
of exposure to secondhand smoke;
      (5)   Many millions of Americans, both children and adults, are still
exposed to secondhand smoke; and
      (6)   Eliminating smoking in indoor spaces fully protects nonsmokers from
exposure to second hand smoke.
   (B)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major contributor
to indoor air pollution. Breathing secondhand smoke is a cause of disease in
healthy nonsmokers. These diseases include heart disease, stroke, respiratory
disease and lung cancer. The National Cancer Institute determined in 1999 that
secondhand smoke is responsible for the early deaths of up to 65,000 Americans
annually. (National Cancer Institute (NCI), “Health effects of exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke: the report of the California Environmental
Protection Agency. Smoking and Tobacco Control Monograph 10”, Bethesda, MD:
National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute (NCI), August 1999.)
   (C)   The Public Health Service’s National Toxicology Program (NTP) has
listed secondhand smoke as a known carcinogen. (Environmental Health
Information Service (EHIS), “Environmental tobacco smoke: first listed in the
Ninth Report on Carcinogens”, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(DHHS), Public Health Service, NTP, 2000; reaffirmed by the NTP in subsequent
reports on carcinogens, 2003, 2005.)
   (D)   Secondhand smoke is particularly hazardous to the elderly, individuals
with cardiovascular disease and individuals with impaired respiratory function,
including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway disease. Children
exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk of asthma, respiratory
infections, sudden infant death syndrome, developmental abnormalities, and
cancer. (California Environmental Protection Agency (Cal EPA), “Health effects
of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke”, Tobacco Control 6(4): 346-353,
Winter, 1997.)
   (E)   The Americans With Disabilities Act, which mandates access to public
places and workplaces for persons with disabilities, deems impaired respiratory
function to be a disability. (Daynard, R.A., “Environmental tobacco smoke and
the Americans with Disabilities Act”, Nonsmokers’ Voice 15(1):8-9.)
   (F)   The Environmental Protection Agency has determined that secondhand
smoke cannot be reduced to safe levels in businesses by high rates of
ventilation. Air cleaners, which are only capable of filtering the particulate
matter and odors in smoke, do not eliminate the known toxins in secondhand
smoke. (Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), “Indoor air facts no. 5
environmental tobacco smoke”, Washington, D.C.: Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), June 1989.)
   (G)   The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has determined that the
risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease associated with
exposure to tobacco smoke is non-linear at low doses, increasing rapidly with
relatively small doses such as those received from secondhand smoke or actively
smoking one or two cigarettes a days and has warned that all patients at
increased risk of coronary heart disease or with known coronary artery disease
should avoid all indoor environments that permit smoking. (Pechacek, Terry F.;
Babb, Stephen, “Commentary: How acute and reversible are the cardiovascular
risks of secondhand smoke?” British Medical Journal, 328: 980-983, April 24,
2004.)
   (H)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25% to 50%
higher risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular
disease and cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and
measurable decrease in lung function (Pitsavos, C.; Panagiotakos, D.B.;
Chrysohoou, C. Skoumas, J; Tzioumis, K; Stefanadis, C.; Toutonzas, P.
“Association between exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and the
development of acute coronary syndromes: The CARDIO2000 case-control study”,
Tobacco Control 11(3): 220-225, September 2002.)
   (I)   Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to
respiratory disease, lower productivity, higher cleaning and maintenance costs,
increased health insurance rates and increased liability claims for diseases
related to exposure to secondhand smoke. (“The high price of cigarette
smoking”, Business & Health 15(8), Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
   (J)   A study of hospital admissions for acute myocardial infarction in
Helena, Montana before, during, and after a local law eliminating smoking in
workplaces and public places was in effect, has determined that laws to enforce
smoke-free workplaces and public places may be associated with a reduction in
morbidity from heart disease. (Sargent, Richard P.; Shepard, Robert M.; Glantz,
Stanton A., “Reduced incidence of admissions for myocardial infarction
associated with public smoking ban: before and after study”, British Medical
Journal 328: 977-980, April 24, 2004.)
   (K)   Numerous economic analyses examining restaurant and hotel receipts and
controlling for economic variables have shown either no difference or
appositive economic impact after enactment of laws requiring workplaces to be
smoke-free. Creation of smoke-free workplaces is sound economic policy and
provides the maximum level of employee health and safety. (Glantz, S.A.; Smith,
L., The Effect of Ordinances Requiring Smoke-Free Restaurants on Restaurant
Sales in the United States. American Journal of Public Health, 87:1687-1693,
1997; Colman, R.; Urbonas, C.M., “The economic impact of smoke-free workplaces:
an assessment for Nova Scotia, prepared or Tobacco Control Unit, Nova Scotia
Department of Health”, GPI Atlantic, September 2001.)
   (L)   Smoking is a potential cause of fires; cigarette and cigar burns and
ash stains on merchandise and fixtures causes economic damage to business
health (15(8), Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
   (M)   In April 2006, Opinion Research Associates, Inc., an independent
polling company, conducted a telephone survey of 400 randomly selected voters
within the City of Ashland and 66% of those surveyed either strongly or
somewhat supported a comprehensive smoke-free workplace ordinance, 82% of the
respondents view second hand smoke as at least some kind of health hazard, 61%
of the respondents felt the smoke-free ordinance is about the rights of
employees and customers to breathe clean air and 85% of the participants felt
that it is the government’s responsibility to promote and protect public
health.
   (N)   In July the city received petitions from the Greater Ashland Smokefree
Policy Coalition who gathered signatures from 670 residents and individuals who
work and/or eat and/or shop in Ashland supporting efforts to enact a Smoke Free
Ordinance in Ashland.
   (O)   The smoking of tobacco is a form of air pollution, a danger to health
and a material public nuisance. The Board of City Commissioners adopts the
foregoing findings of fact as the Board’s basis for its action, and states that
the purpose of the adoption of this chapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in
public places and places of employment;
      (2)   To guarantee the right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke-free air; and
      (3)   To recognize that the public’s need to breathe smoke-free air shall
have priority over the individual’s desire to smoke.
(Prior Code, § 99.01) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold; professional corporations and
other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural or
other professional services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or ore individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the
floor to the ceiling.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and
wards within health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias and hallways.
A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a
childcare, adult day care or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively for
club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The affairs and management of the organization are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members at an annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. §
501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities, hotel and motel lobbies,
laundromats, polling places, public transportation facilities, reception areas,
restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters,
service lines and waiting rooms. A private club is a PUBLIC PLACE when being
used for a function to which the general public is invited. A private residence
is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or
health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees, as well
as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises
for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
restaurant or an outdoor service area, enclosed or not.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store where the sale of tobacco products and
accessories is a primary portion of its business and in which the sale of other
products is merely incidental. This would include newsstands, but does not
include grocery stores, restaurants or drugstores.
   RETAIL VAPOR STORE. A retail store where the sale of electronic vapor
products and accessories is the primary portion of its business, and in which
the sale of other products is merely incidental. This does not include grocery
stores, restaurants or drugstores.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor or outdoor line in which one or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind or purchasing items, whether or
not the service involves the exchange of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING or SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe or other lighted tobacco product, including, but without
limitation, any electronic or vapor device that emits smoke or vapor, in any
manner or in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA. Ballparks, sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health
spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and
other similar places where members of the general public assemble to engage in
physical exercise, participate in athletic competition or witness sports or
other events.
(Prior Code, § 99.02) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006; Ord. 8-2016, passed 1-28-
2016; Ord. 9-2016, passed 1-28-2016)
§ 99.03 APPLICATION TO CITY, COUNTY AND STATE FACILITIES.
   Smoking policies concerning facilities owned or operated by the city, county
or the state shall be governed by regulations adopted in compliance with KRS
61.165. To the degree not in conflict with this statute or other existing
statutory scheme affecting such facilities, this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 99.03) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.04 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed public places, as defined in §
99.02, within the city limits of the city. Smoking is prohibited in all areas
of restaurants as defined by §
99.02.
(Prior Code, § 99.04) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed facilities within places of
employment. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, common work
areas, auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs
and restrooms.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees by the effective date of this chapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Prior Code, § 99.05) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR ARENAS AND STADIUMS, AND IN THE
VICINITY OF UK KING’S DAUGHTERS.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in the seating areas of all outdoor arenas,
venues, stadiums and amphitheaters.
   (B)   It shall be prohibited for anyone to smoke within any city right-of-
way surrounding any facility of the UK King’s Daughters, except in designated
smoking areas. The rights-of-way are noted on the map attached to Ordinance 9-
2016 and made a part hereof by reference, and shall also include the rights-of-
way of Hilton Avenue, from 23rd to 24th Streets, and 24th Street, from Hilton
Avenue to Lexington Avenue. Smoking areas shall be designated by the City
Manager, and signs shall be posted designating the smoking areas.
   (C)   Division (B) shall be enforced any City Code Officer or any individual
duly sworn to enforce this section and authorized by the city to issue
citations hereunder, which may include, without limitation, UK King’s Daughters
security supervisors. Warnings may be issued by any City Code Officer or UK
King’s Daughters security staff.
      (1)   UK King’s Daughters security officials shall inform persons seen
violating this section of its requirements.
      (2)   In the event a security official of UK King’s Daughters observes a
person or persons violating this section, he or she shall immediately direct
the person or persons in violation to extinguish the item being smoked.
      (3)   In the event the person(s) violating this section complies with
this directive, no violation shall exist.
      (4)   In the event the person(s) violating this section fails or refuses
to comply with this directive, the violator may then be cited for the
violation.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (B) shall be
subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Fifty dollars for the first offense;
      (2)   One hundred dollars for every subsequent offense during a 12-month
period.
(Prior Code, § 99.06) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006; Ord. 110-2006, passed 8-24-
2006; Ord. 114-2008, passed 12-4-2008; Ord. 9-2016, passed 1-28-2016) Penalty,
see §
99.99
§ 99.07 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within a reasonable distance of the outside entrance
to or open windows of any enclosed area in which smoking is prohibited by this
chapter and from the air intake of a ventilation system serving an enclosed
area where smoking is prohibited, in order to ensure that tobacco smoke does
not enter that enclosed area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or
other means.
(Prior Code, § 99.07) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.08 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
99.04 and
99.05:
   (A)   Private residences except when used as a licensed childcare, adult day
care or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms. This does not include those public areas of the hotel and motel
including, lobbies, restaurants and meeting rooms;
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores, provided that smoke from these premises does
not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of
this chapter;
   (D)   Private clubs, provided that those areas of such clubs used as
restaurants or other for functions open to the public are not exempted and the
prohibitions set out in §§
99.04 and
99.05 shall apply;
   (E)   Outdoor areas of places of employment except those covered by the
provisions of §§
99.06 and
99.07;
   (F)   Private functions at otherwise regulated locations, provided that
smoke from these premises does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is
prohibited under the provisions of this chapter; and
   (G)   Solely as to electronic or vapor devices that emit smoke or vapor in
any manner or form, retail vapor stores, provided that vapor or smoke from
these premises does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 99.08) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006; Ord. 8-2016, passed 1-28-
2016)
§ 99.09 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager or other authorized person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as
a non- smoking place regardless of its designation under this chapter. Within
such premises as an authorized non- smoking designation has been made and
signage conforming to the specifications set out in §
99.10(A), is posted, smoking shall be prohibited as if otherwise prohibited by
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 99.09) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.10 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter. The party responsible for the placement of the signage is the
owner, operator, manager or other person in control of the premises.
   (B)   A conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited shall be
posted at each entrance utilized by the public entering and exiting public
places within which smoking is prohibited by this chapter. A conspicuous sign
clearly stating that smoking is prohibited shall be posted at each entrance
utilized by employees entering and exiting places of employment within which
smoking is prohibited by this chapter.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area within which this chapter
or the owner, operator, manager or other person having control of the area
prohibits smoking, except for ashtrays displayed for sale and not for use on
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 99.10) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.11 NON-RETALIATION AND NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who continues to work in a setting where an employer
allows smoking in violation of this chapter does not waive or otherwise
surrender any legal rights the employee may have against the employer or any
other party.
(Prior Code, § 99.11) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A) The city’s Code Enforcement Officers (primary), the city police
officers, the Fire Department, the Boyd County Health Department (subject to
formal determination by the Health Board that the Boyd Health Department shall
assume enforcement responsibilities) and any other city officials and employees
designated by the Mayor or Board of City Commissioners shall enforce this
chapter.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the city.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with any of the authorized persons listed above.
   (D)   The Health Department, Fire Department, or their designees shall,
while in an establishment performing otherwise legal inspections, shall inspect
for compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Owners, managers, operators or employees of establishments regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons seen violating this chapter of the
requirements of this chapter. In the event an owner, manager, operator or
employee of an establishment regulated by this chapter observes a person or
persons violating this chapter, he or she shall immediately direct the person
or persons in violation to extinguish the item being smoked. Failure of the
person directed to extinguish his or her item shall result in the violator
being directed to leave the premises.
      (1)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter
complies with this directive, no violation shall exist for the owner, manager,
operator or employee witnessing the violation. In the event an owner, manager,
operator or employee of an establishment regulated by this chapter observes a
person or persons violating this chapter and fails to immediately direct the
person (or persons) in violation to extinguish the item being smoked, the
owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate steps required
by this chapter shall be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter
fails or refuses to comply with this directive, the owner, manager, operator or
employee directing the person (or persons) violating this chapter shall take
immediate and reasonable steps to obtain the removal of the person (or persons)
from the premises.
         (b)   As an example of the reasonableness required, if there is a
person violating the chapter who, the owner, manager, operator or employee of
an establishment regulated by this chapter is required to remove from the
premises, but the person is intoxicated or otherwise reasonably believed to be
unable to safely drive or conduct himself or herself if required to leave those
premises, in this event the owner, manager, operator or employee reasonably
determine to allow the person violating this chapter to remain on the premises
until appropriate arrangements may be made for the person’s removal.
         (c)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter is
timely removed from the premises; no violation shall exist for any owner,
manager, operator or employee related to the establishment in which these
events occurred. In no event is an owner or agent of the premises to forcibly
remove the person violating the chapter. Compliance is achieved under this
division (E)(2) if the owner or agent of the premises orders the person
violating the chapter to leave its premises and promptly notifies the police if
the person refuses.
      (3)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter fails
or refuses to comply with this directive and the owner, manager, operator or
employee who observed the violation or if a different person who directed the
person (or person) in violation to leave the premises, fails to take immediate
and reasonable steps to obtain the removal of the person (or persons) from the
premises, the owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate
steps required by this chapter shall be in violation of this chapter.
      (4)   In all events, the establishment in which a violation occurs shall
be in violation of this chapter for each violation that occurs on its premises
and in connection with which the owner, manager, operator or employee fail to
take appropriate steps required by this chapter.
      (5)   An employee who observes a person (or persons) violating this
chapter may immediately notify his or her owner, manager or supervisor of the
violation in satisfaction of the employee’s responsibility under this chapter.
The failure of the employee’s owner, manager or supervisor to take appropriate
steps required by this chapter in response to the employee’s notice shall not
constitute a violation on the part of the employee.
      (6)   In the event all duties required under this section are satisfied
yet the person violating this chapter persists in his or her violation and/or
refuses to vacate the premises on which the violation occurred, the owner,
manager, supervisor and/or employee shall immediately contact one or more of
the agencies or departments authorized above to enforce this chapter informing
the agency or department of the circumstances of the violation.
      (7)   The mere presence of a person smoking within the premises of an
establishment governed by this chapter does not constitute a violation on the
part of the establishment. The establishment and its agents shall only be
charged for a violation of this chapter if the responsible agent(s) of the
establishment fail to timely satisfy each responsibility prescribed for them in
this section.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city, the
County Health Department, an employee or any person aggrieved by a failure to
comply with this chapter, whether by commission or omission, including
violations on the part of an owner, operator, manager, employee or other person
(s) in control of a public place or a place of employment covered by this
chapter may bring legal action to enforce this chapter, either by civil action
seeking injunctive relief or by criminal complaint in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 99.12) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by a fine
not exceeding $50.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first violation within a one-year
period;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a second violation within one year;
and
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $250 for each additional violation within one
year.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violations of
this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment may result in the suspension or revocation
of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises by the city on
which the violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance, which
may be abated by the city or its designated agents by restraining order,
preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law. The
city may recover the reasonable costs of any court enforcement action seeking
abatement of this nuisance.
   (E)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Prior Code, § 99.99) (Ord. 105, passed 8-24-2006)
CHAPTER 100: ASHLAND CEMETERY
Section
   
100.01   Boundaries of Ashland Cemetery
   
100.02   Prohibited activities
   
100.03   Disorderly conduct
   
100.04   Vehicles in cemetery
   
100.05   Operating hours
   
100.06   Regulation of cemetery operations
   
100.07   Cemetery grounds and lots
   
100.08   Cemetery mausoleums
   
100.09   Dogs; wildlife
 
   
100.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery Board, see §
35.29
   Cemetery Division of Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
35.28
§ 100.01 BOUNDARIES OF ASHLAND CEMETERY.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the boundaries of the Ashland Cemetery
shall be considered as the city owned properties located at 1518 Belmont
Street, Ashland, Kentucky.
(Prior Code, § 100.01) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
§ 100.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The Board of City Commissioners, in the interest of public safety and
welfare, hereby declare the following activities to be prohibited within the
confines of the Ashland Cemetery.
   (A)   No driver shall stop his or her vehicle in the roadway or in any way
block or impede the flow of traffic on said roadway; nor shall any pedestrian
impede the flow of traffic on said roadway.
   (B)   No person shall possess alcoholic beverages in an open container or a
container with the seal or cap broken in the Ashland Cemetery.
   (C)   Motor vehicles, including all automobiles and motorcycles, shall be
confined to the paved roadway in the Ashland Cemetery. Power assisted
wheelchairs for the handicapped shall not be considered as motor vehicles under
the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   No person shall ride a skateboard or skates within the Ashland
Cemetery. Bicycles are permitted on paved roadways only.
   (E)   All motor vehicles, not on city business, shall park in designated
parking areas, which shall be limited to paved or graveled surfaces.
   (F)   No individual or entity, not on city business, shall be permitted to
park or remain standing a vehicle upon any grass area within the Ashland
Cemetery.
   (G)   Public safety and service vehicles, when on necessary city business
shall have access to all areas of the Ashland Cemetery, but shall limit
movement on grassy areas of the cemetery to bona fide use, including public
safety calls for service, and cemetery maintenance, and wherever possible,
shall avoid driving over or parking upon grassy areas, if the task to be
performed can be accomplished without the use of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   Parking within the Ashland Cemetery shall be limited to those persons
using the cemetery.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or unnecessarily injure
any monument, statuary, grave marker, casket, vault or any structure or other
physical property of any kind within the Ashland Cemetery.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to throw, scatter or discard any paper, filth,
garbage or other waste matter at any place in the Ashland Cemetery except in
the receptacles therein placed for that purpose.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to smoke
inside any building and/or structure within the Ashland Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 100.02) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
disorderly or indecorous manner within the Ashland Cemetery. Pursuant to KRS
525.055, a person is guilty of disorderly conduct in the first degree when he
or she:
      (1)   In a public place and with intent to cause public inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm, or wantonly creating a risk thereof:
         (a)   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior;
         (b)   Makes unreasonable noise; or
         (c)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose; and
      (2)   Acts in a way described in division (A)(1) of this section within
300 feet of a:
         (a)   Cemetery during a funeral or burial;
         (b)   Funeral home during the viewing of a deceased person;
         (c)   Funeral procession;
         (d)   Funeral or memorial service; or
         (e)   Building in which a funeral or memorial service is being
conducted.
      (3)   Acts in a way described in division (A)(1) of this section at any
point in time between one hour prior to the commencement of an event specified
in division (A)(2) of this section and one hour following its conclusion; and
      (4)   Knows that he or she is within 300 feet of an occasion described in
division (A)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 525.060, a person is guilty of disorderly conduct in
the second degree when in a public place and with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or wantonly creating a risk thereof, he or
she:
      (1)   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Makes unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refuses to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard or other emergency; or
      (4)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 100.03) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.04 VEHICLES IN CEMETERY.
   (A)   The main entrance in to the Ashland Cemetery is located in the 1500
block of Belmont Street. The road entrance in to the Ashland Cemetery located
at the intersection of Newman Street and Park Street shall be closed to all
motor vehicles except during funeral services and on approved holidays.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated in the Ashland Cemetery at a speed in
excess of ten mph.
(Prior Code, § 100.04) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.05 OPERATING HOURS.
   Operating hours for the Ashland Cemetery shall be as follows.
   (A)   Cemetery gates shall remain open daily from dawn to dusk. Civic or
other non-profit special interest groups may request an extension of such hours
from the Parks and Recreation Director.
   (B)   During the hours the cemetery is closed, no person shall remain in or
enter the premises except city maintenance employees, officials of the city and
law enforcement officers, who shall have the right to enter on the premises for
purposes of patrolling, enforcing the law, or other appropriate administrative
purposes.
   (C)   During the hours the cemetery is closed, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to park and leave standing any vehicle inside the
cemetery. Any person, firm or corporation violating these terms shall pay an
administrative penalty rate not less than $10. All administrative penalties
derived from the enforcement of this chapter shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city for the purpose of defraying the cost of general government.
(Prior Code, § 100.05) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
§ 100.06 REGULATION OF CEMETERY OPERATIONS.
   Regulations of cemetery operations shall be as follows:
   (A)   The cemetery shall have the authority to remove all decorations,
ornamentations and similar articles from said lot as soon as, in the judgment
of the cemetery personnel, they become unsightly, dangerous or detrimental.
   (B)   The cemetery rates and fees may be obtained from the cemetery office.
   (C)   The cemetery is not liable for any injury sustained by a person or
persons while visiting the cemetery proper, vandalism, theft or other unlawful
acts against the deceased’s remains, grave sites, stones and the like.
   (D)   Vandalism of trees, shrubs, flowers or plants is forbidden within the
cemetery.
   (E)   Seasonal decorations not removed by family members may be removed by
the cemetery personnel after the end of the season. Memorial Day ground
operations cease for a period of one week to allow for decorations.
   (F)   Any monument, structure or any inscription placed within the cemetery
to be deemed offensive, improper or harmful shall be removed.
   (G)   No grave marker or monument shall be erected of any material other
than stone or bronze. Properties are to be paid in full prior to any monument/
marker being placed.
   (H)   If an owner chooses to sell his or her site(s) or lot(s), it is the
owner’s responsibility to notify the cemetery. Upon sale, copies of the legal
documents shall be given to the cemetery for its records. A transfer of
property shall be granted within the cemetery office at a rate not less than
$10.
   (I)   The Cemetery Board and City Board of Commissioners hereby expressly
reserves the right, at any time, to adopt new policies and procedures as it
deems necessary for the care of the cemetery and protection of the owners.
   (J)   All foundations for memorial markers shall be installed by the
cemetery personnel. The cemetery will provide installation at a rate determined
by the Cemetery Board with approval from the City Board of Commissioners. The
cemetery shall direct the size of the foundation for the memorial marker
depending on the lot location and size. All installation charges are to be paid
in advance.
(Prior Code, § 100.06) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
§ 100.07 CEMETERY GROUNDS AND LOTS.
   Regulations on cemetery grounds/lots shall be as follows.
   (A)   No person shall have any use of or title to any lot until the same is
paid in full, unless expressly permitted by the Cemetery Board and Board of
City Commissioners. Ownership is the right of burial and memorialization. It is
not the ownership of a piece of real estate. Burial rights may be considered as
a limited easement on real estate for a specific purpose: the interment of
human remains.
   (B)   Lots shall not be used for any purpose other than as a place of burial
for the deceased and the erection of monuments to their memory.
   (C)   A standard interment burial site may contain up to 40 square feet and
shall be used only for the remains of one person. Second right of interment,
the right to bury one cremains on an existing burial site is permitted with
prior approval by Parks and Recreation Director. No pets or animals of any
description may be buried on a lot.
   (D)   No person may open or close a burial site or place the cremains of a
deceased person on a burial site. Scattering of all cremains within the
cemetery is prohibited. All openings and closing shall be performed by the
cemetery personnel.
   (E)   All charges for opening and closing shall be made prior to burial. A
family member or designated person shall pay the opening and closing expenses,
sign the interment form and inspect the grave site prior to burial.
   (F)   All trees, shrubs, plants and flowers designed to be planted on burial
lots must first be submitted to the Parks and Recreation Director for approval.
If any trees or shrubs situated on any lot shall by means of their roots,
branches or otherwise become detrimental to adjacent lots, avenues, lanes or
paths, or dangerous to passengers, it shall be the duty of the cemetery
personnel to enter upon the lot and remove. Use of all types of gravel is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 100.07) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
§ 100.08 CEMETERY MAUSOLEUMS.
   Regulations for cemetery mausoleums shall be as follows.
   (A)   Plastic vases and rings for artificial arrangements, in keeping with
the dignity of the building(s) may be purchased from the cemetery office. Cut
flowers are prohibited due to water and stain damage.
   (B)   Wreaths, decorations, pictures and any attachment devices are not
permitted. Any decorations placed at or near a crypt at the time of entombment
shall be removed the next day. Cemetery personnel may remove all decorations
from the building after the expiration of 48 hours from the tine of entombment.
Permission to allow artificial arrangements to be placed on the floor beneath
crypts during holiday seasons shall be granted at the discretion of the Parks
and Recreation Director.
   (C)   No ladders are permitted inside the chapel mausoleum, or outside
surrounding the garden crypts. A pole is provided for overhead vase placement.
The cemetery personnel may assist families if necessary.
   (D)   All crypts will be sealed immediately after entombment.
   (E)   Purchaser of chapel crypts will receive one key to the front door of
the chapel mausoleum at the time of purchase. Additional keys shall be
purchased from the cemetery office.
(Prior Code, § 100.08) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
§ 100.09 DOGS; WILDLIFE.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no dogs shall be
permitted within the boundaries of the Ashland Cemetery. City employees and all
police officers are directed to strictly enforce this section. It shall be
unlawful for any person to kill, injure or unnecessarily frighten any wildlife
within the Ashland Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 100.09) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If violation of the terms of this chapter results in a uniform
citation being issued, any person, firm or corporation who shall violate these
provisions shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a
fine not less than $10 nor more than any stated amount provided in KRS 534.040
for a violation offense, except as stated in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   If violation of these terms results in a uniform citation being
issued, any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
100.02(B) and/or (K) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and
shall be fined in any sum not less than $50 nor more than any stated amount
provided in KRS 534.040 for a violation offense.
(Prior Code, § 100.99) (Ord. 35-2011, passed 3-17-2011)
CHAPTER 101: CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   Violation
   
101.03   Procedure
   
101.04   Owner cooperation
   
101.05   Correction agreement
   
101.06   Commencement of action; enforcement
   
101.07   Burden of proof
   
101.08   Remedies
   
101.09   Suspension or revocation of business license
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE. To repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy a condition
which constitutes a violation of this chapter by such means and in such a
manner and to such an extent as the applicable city department director or
designee(s) determines is necessary in the interest of the general health,
safety and welfare of the community.
   CONTROL. The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
property, or conduct that occurs on a property.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.
      (1)   Property that, within any 120-day period, has three or more
nuisance activities; or
      (2)   Property that, within any 365-day period, has six or more nuisance
activities.
   NUISANCE ACTIVITY. Any nuisance that occurs or exists upon a property, or if
specified in this section, occurs or exists within 200 feet of a property. To
be considered a NUISANCE ACTIVITY within 200 feet of the property, the NUISANCE
ACTIVITY must involve the person in control of the property and/or any person
associated with the person in control of the property. A person is associated
with the person in control of the property if he or she is a guest or invitee
of the person in control of the property. NUISANCE ACTIVITY includes:
      (1)   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, criminal abuse or
terroristic threatening in violation of KRS Chapter 508;
      (2)   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting prostitution,
loitering for prostitution purposes, human trafficking or promoting human
trafficking in violation of KRS Chapter 529;
      (3)   Possession of a defaced firearm, possession of a firearm by
convicted felon or other weapons violation in violation of KRS Chapter 527;
      (4)   Gambling, promoting gambling, permitting gambling, possession of
gambling records, possession of gambling devices in violation of KRS Chapter
528;
      (5)   Possession of a controlled substance, trafficking in a controlled
substance, possession, trafficking and cultivating marijuana, manufacture of
methamphetamine, unlawful possession of methamphetamine precursor, unlawful
distribution of methamphetamine precursor, possession or trafficking in
synthetic drugs, and all related offenses in violation of KRS Chapter 218A;
      (6)   Disorderly conduct, harassment, loitering or public intoxication in
violation of KRS Chapter 525;
      (7)   Distribution of obscene material, using a minor to distribute
obscene material, promotion of obscene material, voyeurism or video voyeurism,
sexual exploitation of minors, use of a minor in a sexual performance,
promoting a sexual performance by a minor, possession or viewing of matter
portraying a sexual performance by a minor, distribution of matter portraying a
sexual performance by a minor, promoting sale of matter portraying a sexual
performance by a minor, or advertising material portraying a sexual performance
by a minor, in violation of KRS Chapter 531; and
      (8)   Any property with respect to which a Boyd County Court of competent
jurisdiction has issued a search warrant based upon probable cause to believe
that possession, manufacture, distribution or delivery of a controlled
substance has occurred on the premises.
      (9)   For purposes of this chapter, NUISANCE ACTIVITY shall not include
conduct where the person responsible is the victim of a crime and had no
control over the criminal act or alleged NUISANCE ACTIVITY involving
allegations of domestic violence as defined in KRS 403.720(1).
   PERSON. Natural person, joint venture, partnership, association, club,
company, corporation, business trust, organization or the manager, lessee,
agent, officer or employee of any of them.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPERTY or PERSON RESPONSIBLE. Unless otherwise
defined, any person who has titled ownership of the property or structure which
is subject to this chapter; an occupant in control of the property or structure
which is subject to this chapter; a developer, builder or business operator or
owner who is developing, building, or operating a business on the property or
in a structure which is subject to this chapter; and/or any person, including,
but not limited to, a lessee, tenant, occupant or manager who has actual or
constructive possession or control over the property and allows a violation of
this chapter to continue.
   PREMISES or PROPERTY. May be used by this chapter interchangeably and means
any property, including land and that which is affixed, incidental or
appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or residence,
grounds, vacant lots, facilities, parking area, loading area, landscaping,
building or structure or any separate part, unit or portion thereof, or any
business equipment, whether or not permanent.
(Prior Code, § 101.01) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.02 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any property within the city which is a chronic nuisance property is
in violation of this chapter and subject to its remedies; and
   (B)   Any person responsible for property who permits property to be a
chronic nuisance property shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to
its remedies.
(Prior Code, § 101.02) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.03 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may declare that a property is a chronic nuisance
property, as defined in this chapter, when there are specific facts and
circumstances documenting the occurrence of three or more nuisance activities
on a property within 60 days or six or more nuisance activities within a 12-
month period. The Chief of Police shall provide written notice of this
declaration to the persons in charge of the property. The notice shall be sent
by first class mail or personally served, and a copy shall be sent by certified
mail. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
      (2)   A declaration that the Chief of Police has determined the property
has become a chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that exist or that have occurred;
      (3)   A notice that the owner and other persons in charge of the property
are subject to monetary penalties as set forth in §§
101.08 and
101.99;
      (4)   A demand the owner and other persons in charge respond to the Chief
of Police within seven days of service of the notice to discuss a course of
action to correct the nuisance; and
      (5)   A notice that, if the person in charge does not respond to the
Chief of Police as required in this section, or if the matter is not
voluntarily corrected to the satisfaction of the Chief of Police, the city may
file an action to abate the property as a chronic nuisance property pursuant to
§
101.06 and/or take other action against the property or person in charge.
   (B)   When a notice is issued pursuant to this section to a person in
charge, other than an owner or an owner’s agent, who has permitted a property
to become a chronic nuisance property, a copy of such notice shall also be sent
by first class mail or personally served on the owner of the property, and a
copy shall be sent by certified mail.
   (C)   If the owner or person in charge responds as required by the notice
issued pursuant to division (A) of this section and agrees to a course of
action to abate the nuisance activities, a written correction agreement
conforming to the requirements of §
101.05 shall be executed.
   (D)   If the agreed course of action does not result in the abatement of
nuisance activities to the satisfaction of the Chief of Police within 30 days
of issuance of the notice pursuant to division (A) of this section, or within
such longer period as may be permitted by the Chief of Police in writing when
it appears that 30 days is an insufficient period of time to accomplish the
agreed course of action or the person in charge fails to respond as required by
the notice, the Chief of Police may refer the matter to the city corporation
counsel for initiation of proceedings pursuant to §§
101.06 and
101.99(B).
(Prior Code, § 101.03) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.04 OWNER COOPERATION.
   (A)   An owner who receives a copy of a notice pursuant to §
101.03 describing a chronic nuisance property permitted by a person in charge
other than the owner or the owner’s agent, shall promptly take all reasonable
steps requested in writing by the Chief of Police to assist in abatement of the
nuisance property.
   (B)   Such reasonable steps may include the owner taking all acts and
pursuing all remedies, including pursuing eviction of the person in charge,
that are:
      (1)   Available to the owner pursuant to any lease or other agreement;
and
      (2)   Consistent with federal, state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 101.04) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.05 CORRECTION AGREEMENT.
   A correction agreement is a contract between the city and the person in
charge of the chronic nuisance property in which such person agrees to promptly
take all lawful and reasonable actions, which shall be set forth in the
agreement to abate the nuisance activities within a specified time and
according to specified conditions. The agreement shall be signed by the person
in charge and, if different, the owner. The agreement shall include the
following:
   (A)   The name and address of the persons in charge of the property;
   (B)   The street address or a description sufficient for identification of
the property, building, structure or land upon or within which the nuisance is
occurring;
   (C)   A description of the nuisance activities;
   (D)   The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date or time by
which correction must be completed;
   (E)   An agreement by the person in charge that the city may inspect the
property as may be necessary to determine compliance with the correction
agreement;
   (F)   An agreement by the person in charge that the city may abate the
nuisance and recover its costs and expenses and monetary penalties pursuant to
this chapter from the person in charge for the nuisance if the terms of the
correction agreement are not met; and
   (G)   When a person in charge, other than an owner or an owner’s agent, has
permitted a property to be a chronic nuisance property, an agreement by the
owner to promptly take all acts and pursue all remedies requested by the Chief
of Police pursuant to §§
101.03 and
101.04.
(Prior Code, § 101.05) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.06 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; ENFORCEMENT.
   Upon referral pursuant to §
101.99(B), the corporation counsel for the city may initiate an action in Boyd
Circuit Court to abate a chronic nuisance property, to impose penalties
pursuant to this chapter, to seek alternative remedies under city or state laws
and to seek any other relief authorized by law, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief.
(Prior Code, § 101.06) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.07 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In an action against a person in charge to abate a chronic nuisance
property or to recover penalties authorized by this chapter, the city shall
have the burden of proof to show by a preponderance of the evidence that the
property is a chronic nuisance property pursuant to this chapter. In an action
against an owner to recover penalties authorized by §
101.99, the city shall have the additional burden to prove by a preponderance
of the evidence that the owner failed to comply with §§
101.03 through
101.05. Copies of police incident reports and reports of other city departments
documenting nuisance activities shall be admissible in such actions.
Additionally, evidence of a property’s general reputation and the reputation of
persons residing in or frequenting the property shall be admissible in such
actions.
   (B)   It is a defense to an action for chronic nuisance that the person
responsible, at all material times, could not, in the exercise of reasonable
care or diligence, determine that the property had become a chronic nuisance
property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of reasonable care and
diligence, control the conduct leading to the determination that the property
is a chronic nuisance property.
(Prior Code, § 101.07) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.08 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If the court determines a property is a chronic nuisance property
pursuant to this chapter the court may order any of the following:
      (1)   Order the person in charge to immediately abate nuisance activity
from occurring on the property;
      (2)   Order that the Chief of Police shall have the right to inspect the
property to determine if the court’s orders have been complied with;
      (3)   Impose a penalty of up to $500 per day against the person in charge
for each day from the date the notice pursuant to §
101.03 hereof was issued until the Chief of Police confirms that the property
is no longer a chronic nuisance property; or
      (4)   Make any other order that will reasonably abate nuisance activities
from occurring on the property, including authorizing the city to take action
to abate nuisance activities from occurring upon the property if other court
orders are not complied with or do not abate nuisance activity on the property
and providing that the costs of such city action are to be paid for by the
person in charge of the property.
   (B)   If the court finds that an owner failed to take all reasonable steps
requested in writing pursuant to §
101.04, the court may impose a civil penalty as set forth in §
101.99 not to exceed $25,000.
(Prior Code, § 101.08) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.09 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   In addition to any other remedy that is authorized by this chapter or other
laws, upon the finding by a court that a property is a chronic nuisance
property pursuant to this chapter, the person in charge is subject to the
suspension or revocation of a business license or other license at such
property issued pursuant to Title XI of the City of Ashland code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 101.09) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, in addition to any other sanction
or remedial procedure that may be available, the person in charge is subject to
a civil penalty of up to $500 per day from the date of the notice issued
pursuant to §
101.03 until the Chief of Police confirms that the property is no longer a
chronic nuisance property.
   (B)   If the agreed course of action results in the abatement of nuisance
activities to the satisfaction of the Chief of Police within 30 days of the
notice issued pursuant to §
101.03(A), or such longer period as may be allowed by the Chief of Police
pursuant to §
101.03(D), the matter shall be referred to the city’s corporation counsel and
the person in charge shall not be subject to any penalty pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   An owner who fails to comply with §§
101.03 through
101.05 is subject to a civil penalty as set forth in division (A) of this
section up to a maximum of $25,000.
(Prior Code, § 101.99) (Ord. 72, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
      
114.   TOWING SERVICES
      
115.   LICENSING
      
116.   PAWNBROKERS
      
117.   PRECIOUS METALS AND JEWELRY
      
118.   SALES
      
119.   OTHER BUSINESSES
      
120.   SOLICITATION
      
121.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING AND HANDBILLS
Section
   
110.01   Distribution of handbills, circulars, and the like prohibited;
exception
   
110.02   Billposting
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Advertising on awnings and canopies, see §
97.085
   Painting signs and the like on streets, sidewalks prohibited, see §
97.022
   Parking vehicles for purpose of sale prohibited, see §
72.005
   Sign regulations, see
Ch. 158
§ 110.01 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS, CIRCULARS, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   No person shall throw, scatter, leave, place, distribute or cause to be
thrown, scattered, left, placed or distributed, any handbill, poster, sign,
card, pamphlet, sample of merchandise, written or printed papers, circulars
used for advertising purposes, or other advertising device upon any sidewalk,
street, lane, alley, public ground, or other public place, or upon any private
lawn, lot, driveway or steps, within the corporate limits of the city;
provided, that it should not be unlawful to distribute such materials if the
same is delivered in person to one willing to accept it, delivered in person at
the door of a residence or business, or placed on a porch or door of a
residence in such a way as to prevent it from being blown or scattered about.
There is excepted from the provisions of this section the circulation or
distribution of any regular newspaper sold or distributed within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 112, 2023, passed 7-28-2023) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 BILLPOSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or in any manner to
affix or cause to be placed or deposited or affixed to any automobile or other
motor vehicle on any street or public or private property, any handbill,
poster, sign, card, written or printed papers, circulars used for advertising
or any other advertising device or notice of any kind whatsoever, unless he or
she is the owner thereof, or has secured in writing the consent of the owner of
the vehicle, or in the case of private property, the written consent of the
owner of the private property.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 112, 2023, passed 7-28-2023) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Posting bills upon flood wall prohibited, see §
131.01
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 112, 2023, passed 7-28-2023)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Short title
   
111.002   Definitions
   
111.003   Scope
   
111.004   Adoption of State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law
   
111.005   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator; appointment; salary
   
111.006   Oath; ethics
Licenses
   
111.020   Licenses
   
111.021   Application
   
111.022   Investigation of applicants
   
111.023   Persons who may not be licensed
   
111.024   Refusal of license
   
111.025   Hearing
   
111.026   Issuance of city license
   
111.027   Form of licenses
   
111.028   Posting of licenses
   
111.029   Annual fees
   
111.030   Payment of license fees
   
111.031   Expiration date; date fees due; fractional fees
   
111.032   Refund of license fees
   
111.033   Lost or destroyed licenses
   
111.034   Revocation or suspension
   
111.035   Notice to licensee; surrender of license; stock; hearing
   
111.036   Transfer or assignment
   
111.037   Regulatory license fee
   
111.038   Change of information
   
111.039   Dormancy
Premises
   
111.050   Approval of premises
   
111.051   Premises that may not be licensed
   
111.052   Application of zoning regulations
   
111.053   Disorderly premises
   
111.054   No intoxicated persons
   
111.055   Delinquent taxes
   
111.056   Books, records and reports
   
111.057   Enforcement
   
111.058   Hours for the sale and delivery
   
111.059   Locked or closed off department
   
111.060   Advertising
   
111.061   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
111.062   Employee prohibitions
   
111.063   Server training
Miscellaneous
   
111.075   Sales from wholesaler’s or distributor’s premises
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Alcoholic Beverage
Control Ordinance” of the City of Ashland (“city”).
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.002 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used throughout this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise,
shall have the same definitions as set out in the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage
Control Laws (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) of the Commonwealth, and all
amendments and supplements thereto.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   Irrespective of title or headings, the sections of this chapter shall
be construed to apply to the traffic in both malt beverages and distilled
spirits and wine where the context permits such application. All provisions of
this chapter shall apply in all respects to licenses and licensees in wet
precincts pursuant to KRS 242.020, 242.050 and 242.110 unless otherwise
specifically provided herein.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve a licensee or the
agent or employee of any licensee located within the city, from the
restrictions, requirements and penalties of any other ordinance of the city or
of any statute of the Commonwealth relating to violations pertaining to
alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.004 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the Commonwealth
(KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) and all amendments and supplements
thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter, except as otherwise
lawfully provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.005 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR; APPOINTMENT; SALARY.
   (A)   The City Manager shall, consistent with the provisions of KRS 83A.l50
(7)(b) and KRS 241.170, appoint a City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
(“City Administrator”) subject to approval of the Board of City Commissioners
of the City of Ashland (“Board of Commissioners”).
   (B)   The salary for said office shall be fixed from time to time by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The functions of the City Administrator shall be the same with respect
to city licenses and regulations, as the functions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board of the Commonwealth (“ABC Board”) with respect to state licenses
and regulations. No regulation of the city shall become effective until it has
first been approved by the Board of Commissioners, and no such regulation shall
be less stringent than the applicable statute or regulation of the ABC Board.
   (D)   The City Administrator and his or her investigators which shall
include all officers of the Ashland Police Department shall have coextensive
jurisdiction within the boundaries of the city. The City Administrator, his or
her investigators, and the officers of the Ashland Police Department may
inspect any premises where alcohol or malt beverages are manufactured, sold,
stored, or otherwise trafficked, without first obtaining a search warrant.
Ashland Police Department officers shall have full police powers while
performing any such inspections.
   (E)   The City Administrator, his or her investigators and City Police
Department officers shall have available at all reasonable times for their
inspection all books and records required to be maintained by licensees
pursuant to state law and city ordinances, including audio and visual records
and the City Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by
licensees to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.006 OATH; ETHICS.
   The City Administrator before entering upon his or her duties as such, shall
take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution and shall be bound by
the same ethical requirements prescribed in KRS Chapter 11A.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
LICENSES
§ 111.020 LICENSES.
   (A)   Generally. For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in
the actions, business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic
in alcoholic beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS
243.070, there is hereby established a corresponding city license for each of
the state licenses described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license
shall be as set out in the following schedule. In the event KRS 243.070 shall
hereafter be amended to authorize additional city licenses, the fee for each
city license shall be the maximum fee provided in the statute as amended.
      (1)   Distilled spirits and wine license fees. The following distilled
spirits and wine licenses may be issued by the city, the fees for which shall
be:
         (a)   Distiller’s license, per annum: $500;
         (b)   Rectifier’s license, Class A, per annum: $3,000;
         (c)   Rectifier’s license, Class B, per annum: $960;
         (d)   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license, per annum:
$3,000;
         (e)   Quota retail package license, per annum: $600;
         (f)   Quota retail drink license, per annum: $600;
         (g)   Special temporary license, per event: $100;
         (h)   Nonquota Type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages): $2,000;
         (i)   Nonquota Type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages), per annum (restaurant drink license): $800;
         (j)   Nonquota Type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages) (private clubs), per annum: $300;
         (k)   Distilled spirits and wine temporary auction, per event: $200;
         (l)   Special Sunday sale retail drink license, per annum: $300;
         (m)   Special temporary auction license, per event: $100; and
         (n)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum:
$1,000.
      (2)   Malt beverage license fees.
         (a)   The following kinds of malt beverage licenses may be issued by
the city, the fees for which shall be:
            1.   Brewer’s license, per annum: $500;
            2.   Microbrewery license, per annum: $500;
            3.   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum: $400;
            4.   Nonquota retailer malt beverage package license, per annum:
$200; and
            5.   Nonquota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum:
$200.
         (b)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses
shall be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no
charge for each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same
licensee at the same premises.
         (c)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license
may obtain a nonquota Type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a nonquota Type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a nonquota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
      (3)   Restaurant drink license. The gross receipts of the restaurant or
the dining facility from the sale of food for consumption on the premises is
reasonably estimated to be not less than 50% of the total food and beverage
receipts of such restaurant or dining facility for the license period.
      (4)   Other license fees. The following kinds of other licenses may be
issued by the city, the fees for which shall be:
         (a)   Convention center or convention hotel complex license, per
annum: $2,000;
         (b)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum: $2,000;
         (c)   Horse racetrack license, per annum: $2,000;
         (d)   Caterer’s license, per annum: $800;
         (e)   Riverboat license, per annum: $1,200;
         (f)   Automobile racetrack license, per annum: $2,000;
         (g)   Limited restaurant license or limited golf course license, per
annum: $800 (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages) for new
applicants; and
         (h)   Special private club license, per annum: $300.
   (B)   Certain special licenses defined.
      (1)   Special temporary licenses.
         (a)   A special temporary license for a qualifying event may be issued
only as set out in KRS 243.260. This license shall authorize the licensee to
exercise the privileges of a quota retail drink licensee and an NQ4 retail malt
beverage drink licensee at designated premises for a specified and limited
time, not to exceed 30 days, and shall expire when the qualifying event ends.
All restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine
quota retail drink licensee or an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink license shall
apply also to a special temporary licensee. In the case of a non-profit
organization holding an NQ4 retail malt beverage license, such organization may
be issued a special temporary license to sell distilled spirits and wine by the
drink on the licensed premises, in conjunction with any public or private
event, for a specified and limited time, not to exceed ten days.
         (b)   ORGANIZED CIVIC OR SPONSORED EVENT, as referred to in KRS
243.260, shall be defined as follows: a public gathering of broad appeal where
citizens are invited and encouraged to attend without significant cost of
admission that is sponsored or acknowledged by the city or county government in
which the event is conducted, including any convention, conference,
celebration, pageant, parade, festival, fair, public display, commemoration or
other type of public assemblage conducted for the benefit and enjoyment of the
general public.
      (2)   Special licenses. Special license required for Sunday sales. No
retail drink licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale on Sunday unless
the licensee shall have obtained a special license for Sunday sales.
      (3)   Private club license.
         (a)   A special private club license may be issued only as authorized
in KRS 243.270 to a non- profit social, fraternal, military or political
organization or club, which for more than one year prior to the date of
application has maintained and operated a club room or rooms from which the
general public is excluded.
         (b)   All restrictions and prohibitions applying to retail drink,
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverage licenses shall apply to the special
licenses, unless otherwise provided by law.
   (C)   Expiration of license; proration of fees. All city licenses, except
temporary licenses, shall begin on July 1 of any year and shall expire on June
30 of the following year. Any licenses issued after December 31 of any year
shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder
of the license period; however, the cost of any license shall not be less than
one-half the amount of the full fee for an annual license of that type.
   (D)   Payment of license fees; delinquency. No licensee shall enter into or
begin operating any business for which a license is required by this section
until the license fee has been paid in full. The fee for renewal of any license
shall be paid with the renewal application. Failure to pay any license fee
within ten days after it becomes due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of
the license fee. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including penalties,
within ten days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation of the
license and to other penalties as provided in §
111.999.
   (E)   Supplemental bar.
      (1)   While KRS 244.330 permits one bar, counter or similar contrivance
in any licensed premises under a single retail drink license, due to modern
business practices and the large interior areas of some licenses, it may be
necessary to provide more than one bar within a licensed premises to
effectively serve the patrons at such premises. A supplemental bar may be
allowed to a licensee, if such licensee can show the City Administrator the
need for such supplemental bar and upon payment of an additional fee. A
supplemental bar license may be issued to a licensee upon a showing to the City
Administrator of good cause and need for the supplemental license, and upon
payment of a fee equivalent to the amount of the annual license fee paid by the
licensee. This supplemental license may only be issued for the use on the
premises for which the applicant’s existing license was issued.
      (2)   Additional service bars are permitted as provided under KRS 244.330
not in rooms in which members or guests or patrons of the place shall be
permitted to come, and no distilled spirits or wine shall be served at service
bars.
   (F)   Entertainment. Any licensee under this section desiring to provide
entertainment to patrons of such licensed premises must first obtain a separate
entertainment license by application to the City Administrator under this
section in the form approved by the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (1)   Term of such license shall be concurrent with the retail drink
license.
      (2)   Fee for such license shall be $100.
      (3)   This license shall be subject to the same sanctions as the retail
drink license.
   (G)   Prior licenses.
         (1)   Any license issued by the city prior to July 1, 2022 under the
authority of KRS 242.1292 shall remain valid and in effect unless the license
is surrendered, shall continue to be subject to the regulatory licensing fee,
and shall not count towards the total number for any other city, county or
state license.
      (2)   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, or adult entertainment
activities, including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture,
television, stage shows, cabarets or sectional entertainment centers on any
licensed premises. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether
actual or simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or
permit wet T-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud
wrestling, jello wrestling or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow
dancing with touching for compensation (including but not limited to wages,
tips or gratuities), or any other service, display or contest requiring
physical contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed
premises.
      (3)   The purpose of this section is to provide city review of the type
of such entertainment to promote the public health, safety, morals and welfare,
and such licenses will not be unreasonably withheld, but periodic review will
occur to protect those interests of the community set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.021 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any applicant shall have the notice of intention to apply for a
license to sell alcoholic beverage placed in a newspaper meeting the
requirements of KRS Chapter 424.
      (2)   The advertisement shall state the name and addresses of the members
of the partnership if the applicant is a partnership, as well as the name of
the business and its address, or, if the applicant is a corporation, the names
and addresses of the principal officers and directors of the corporation, as
well as the name and addresses of the corporation itself, the location of the
premises for which the license is sought, and the type of license to be applied
for.
      (3)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
   (B)   (1)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the State ABC Department and/or the City Administrator as amended and
supplemented from time to time.
      (2)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail
such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought as state statute and ABC Board by regulation requires. The
city application shall be in such form as designated by the City Administrator.
Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a postal or
express money order for the license fee. Promptly upon receipt thereof the City
Administrator shall pay the same to the City Finance Department. The furnishing
of false information on an application hereunder shall constitute cause for
denial or revocation of a license.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.022 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Applications made pursuant to KRS 243.380 and KRS 243.390 shall first
be submitted to the City Administrator for review and action prior to
submission to the state. Applications shall be fully compliant with cited
statutes including all supportive documentation and fees submitted therewith.
   (B)   An applicant for an alcohol license must provide a background check
with the initial application for any new permanent license or a transfer of an
existing license. The ABC Administrator may require further background checks
and documentation to be supplied at any time upon request.
   (C)   Any person making application for special temporary alcohol license
must supply a background check with the application. If an additional temporary
license is applied for by the same person more than 90 days after a previous
application, a new background check must be supplied.
   (D)   The background check must be provided from the state of residence of
the applicant. A list of resources to obtain background checks for each state
is supplied on the city alcohol license application.
   (E)   All applicants must supply satisfactory forms of identification such
as an identification card, driver’s license, military identification card,
passport or other official government documentation including a photograph and
personal information. The ABC Administrator may require an in person interview
with an applicant to establish further proof of identity if there is any
question concerning the same.
   (F)   No license application will be approved for any person, firm or
corporation who is delinquent in payment of accounts with the city, including,
but not limited to, property taxes, water bills, business privilege and net
profit fees, occupational taxes and outstanding loan payments to any city
entity.
   (G)   The city may require such additional information regarding the
applicant as it deems appropriate, considering the nature of the business,
including review of past payment history, credit information and criminal
record, and may conduct an appropriate investigation regarding the information
provided by an applicant to assist the City Administrator in his or her review
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.023 PERSONS WHO MAY NOT BE LICENSED.
   (A)   No person shall become a licensee who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony until five years have passed from
the date of conviction, release from custody or incarceration, parole or
termination of probation, whichever is later;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any misdemeanor involving a controlled
substance that is described in or classified pursuant to KRS Chapter 218A in
the two years immediately preceding application;
      (3)   Has been convicted of any misdemeanor directly or indirectly
attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages in the two years immediately
preceding the application;
      (4)   Is under the age of 21 years;
      (5)   Has had any license relating to the regulation of the manufacture,
sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause or has been
convicted of a violation of any statute within KRS Chapters 241 to 244, until
the expiration of two years from the date of revocation; or
      (6)   Is not a citizen of the United States and has not had an actual,
bona fide residence in this state for at least one year before the date on
which the application for a license is made. This division (A)(6) shall not
apply to applicants for manufacturers’ licenses, to applicants that are
corporations authorized to do business in this state, or to persons licensed on
March 7, 1938.
   (B)   A partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall not be licensed if:
      (1)   Each principal owner, partner, member, officer and director does
not qualify under division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this
section;
      (2)   It has had any license relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause
or has been convicted of a violation of any statute within KRS Chapters 241 to
244, until the expiration of two years from the date of revocation or
conviction; or
      (3)   Any principal owner, partner, member, officer or director, or any
business entity in which they were directly or indirectly interest, has had any
license revoked for cause or has been convicted of a violation of any statute
within KRS Chapters 241 to 244, until the expiration of the later of two years
from the date of the revocation or conviction.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall apply to anyone applying for a
new license under this ordinance but shall not apply to those who renew a
license or for a supplemental license where the original license was issued
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   A person shall not evade license disqualification by applying for a
license through or under the name of a different person. The State
Administrators shall examine the ownership, membership and management of all
license applicants, and shall deny the application if a disqualified person has
a direct or indirect interest in the applicant’s business. The Department may
issue administrative subpoenas and summonses to determine ownership of an
applicant or to investigate alleged violations by a licensee.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.024 REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   A city license shall be refused:
   (A)   If the applicant or the premises for which the license is sought does
not comply fully with all alcoholic beverage control statutes, the regulations
of the ABC Board, and the provisions of this chapter relative to the
regulations of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages,
and all regulations of the City Administrator;
   (B)   If the applicant has not obtained approval from the City Administrator
for a license required at the proposed premises;
   (C)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
   (D)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or her
application.
      (1)   A license (new issuance, transfer or renewal) may be refused by the
City Administrator for any reason which he or she, in the exercise of his or
her sound discretion, may deem sufficient. The City Administrator must notify
the applicant in writing of the denial and reason for denial by registered or
certified mail.
      (2)   Among some of those factors that the City Administrator shall
consider in the exercise of his or her discretion are: public sentiment in the
area; number of licensed outlets in the area; potential for future growth; type
of area involved; type of transportation available; financial potential of the
area; and applicant’s status as a delinquent taxpayer as defined in KRS
131.1815.
(Prior Code, § 111.14) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.025 HEARING.
   Should the applicant or licensee request the City Administrator to hold a
hearing, the general practice procedures found in the Kentucky Rules of Civil
Procedure shall apply as shall the following.
   (A)   Appearances. Any applicant or licensee may appear and be heard in
person, or by or with duly appointed attorney, and may produce under oath
evidence relative and material to matters before the Board.
   (B)   Briefs. Briefs may be filed at the option of the applicant or licensee
or at the request of the City Administrator.
   (C)   Rules of evidence. The rules of evidence governing civil proceedings
in courts in the Commonwealth shall govern hearings before the City
Administrator; provided however, that the hearing officer may relax such rules
to the degree in his or her judgment, the ends of justice will be served by
doing so.
   (D)   Subpoenas. The City Administrator shall have subpoena power for such
hearings and shall issue same at request of the applicant made with names and
addresses of those desired to be subpoenaed.
   (E)   Transcript. Upon request in advance, in writing, and at the cost of
the applicant or licensee the hearing may be transcribed.
   (F)   Decisions. All decisions made by the City Administrator resulting from
such hearing shall be reduced to writing and shall be based upon the evidence
developed at the hearing and applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 111.15) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.026 ISSUANCE OF CITY LICENSE.
   The City Administrator shall transmit fees upon collection to the City
Finance Department. City licenses shall be issued by the City Administrator
upon receipt of notice from the ABC Board Administrator of the finality of
appeal or protest permitted upon such license pursuant to the provisions of KRS
241.200 and KRS 243.360 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 111.16) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.027 FORM OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the
City Manager or his or her designee and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The number of the license;
      (3)   The type of the license;
      (4)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
      (5)   The expiration date of the license; and
      (6)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property
or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
   (B)   Each kind of license shall be printed so as to be readily
distinguishable from the other kinds.
(Prior Code, § 111.17) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.028 POSTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Before commencing or doing any business for the time for which a
license has been issued, the license shall be posted at all times and displayed
in a conspicuous place in the room or principle room where the business is
carried on, so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
Licenses listed in this chapter shall be enclosed in a wood or metal frame
enclosing a clear glass space so that the whole of the license may be seen.
   (B)   No licensee shall post or permit to be posted, upon premises other
than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in alcoholic
beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee, or
knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
(Prior Code, § 111.18) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.029 ANNUAL FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.070 the city annual license fees
shall be the maximum amounts permitted by KRS 243.030 and KRS 243.040 with the
exception that a wholesaler’s annual license fee shall be $400.
   (B)   In order to engage in sale or trafficking of alcoholic beverages in
the city, a party must be a license holder of one or a combination of the
licenses required hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 111.19) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.030 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee and/or regulatory tax for every license issued under this
chapter shall be payable by the person making application for such license and/
or licensee, and no other person, firm or corporation shall pay for any license
issued under this chapter. In addition to all other penalties provided in this
chapter, a violation of this section shall authorize and require the revocation
of the license, and also the revocation of the license, if any, of the person,
firm or corporation so paying for the license and/or tax of another.
(Prior Code, § 111.20) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.031 EXPIRATION DATE; DATE FEES DUE; FRACTIONAL FEES.
   (A)   All city licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. The renewal by
the City Administrator of the license shall not be construed to be a waiver or
condonement of any violation which occurred prior to such renewal and shall not
prevent subsequent proceedings against the license therefore.
   (B)   Application for a license made after July 1 of any year, shall result
in a charge, if the license is issued, of an amount equal to one-twelfth of the
annual license fee for each calendar month or part thereof, including the month
in which the license is granted, until the following July 1, except that no
license issued shall be charged for a shorter period than six months. No
abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who held a license
of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license period and who
was actually doing business under the license during the last month of the
preceding license period.
(Prior Code, § 111.21) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.032 REFUND OF LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
said business for the full period covered by the license because of any changes
that may hereafter be made in the laws of the state with reference to alcoholic
beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control then the city shall refund
to it the proportionate part of the license fee for the period during which it
is prevented from carrying on said business if the licensee provides sufficient
proof to the City Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the
fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrong
doing by licensee or agent or employee of the licensee.
   (B)   With respect to a temporary license granted in conjunction with an
approved event, if the event is cancelled, the license fee shall be refunded or
credited at the option of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 111.22) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.033 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSES.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City Administrator after he or she shall be
satisfied as to the facts, provided, however, that the person applying for said
duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for issuing said duplicate.
(Prior Code, § 111.23) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.034 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City Administrator if
the licensee shall have violated any of the provisions of KRS Chapters 241, 243
or 244, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board or of the Department of
Revenue relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation
or taxation of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall have violated or
shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal
board, agency or commission, or any provision of this chapter now, heretofore,
or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation or taxation of intoxicating liquors or any rules or regulations
of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Chapters
241, 243 and 244 to be created, or if any clerk, agent, servant or employee of
any licensee shall violate any of the laws, regulations or ordinances above
referred to, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or permitted the
violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience of his or her
instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for any cause
which the City Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound discretion
deems sufficient. A license may be revoked or suspended for any of the reasons
for which the City Administrator would have been required to refuse a license
if the facts had been known.
   (B)   Any license may be revoked or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the licensed premises;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license or supplemental license;
      (3)   Violation of the provisions of §
111.030;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee or any of his or her clerks, servants,
agents or employees of two violations or misdemeanors directly or indirectly
attributable to the manufacture, sale, transportation or use of alcoholic
beverages within two consecutive years;
      (5)   Any felony;
      (6)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, §§
111.029,
111.037 or
111.055 or acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a violation of any
rules or regulations of the Department of Revenue made in pursuance thereof;
      (7)   Revocation of any license or permit provided in KRS 243.060,
243.070, 243.600 and 243.610 or granted under any act of congress relative to
the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic
beverages. Any license issued must be revoked or suspended if the licensee
sells the alcoholic beverages at a price in excess of the price set by federal
or state regulations;
      (8)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility. This section shall not apply to contests
in which eligibility to participate is determined by chance and the ultimate
winner is determined by skill and the licensee has no direct interest, or to
the sale of lottery tickets sold under the provision of KRS Chapter 154A;
      (9)   Conviction of the licensee, his or her agents, servants, or
employees for:
         (a)   The sale or use upon the licensed premises of those items
described in KRS 218A.050 through 218A.130 as controlled substances;
         (b)   Knowingly permitting the sale or use by patrons upon the
licensed premises of those items described in KRS 218A.050 through 218A.130 as
controlled substances; or
         (c)   Knowingly receiving stolen property upon the licensed premises.
      (10)   Any cause for refusal or revocation of a state license as set
forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes, specifically including without
limitation, KRS 244.120.
(Prior Code, § 111.24) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.035 NOTICE TO LICENSEE; SURRENDER OF LICENSE; STOCK; HEARING.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall furnish to licensee a copy of this
chapter at the time the city license is issued and a receipt for same shall be
executed by the licensee. Any changes or amendments to same shall be forwarded
to licensee at address on the license. Failure to receive or review such
changes or amendments or review the chapter shall not be an excuse or
justification for any violation or prevent, remit or decrease any penalty for a
violation.
   (B)   All restrictions and prohibitions relating to retail package and drink
licenses under this chapter and KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243, 244 and rules and
regulations promulgated by the ABC Board shall have application to the club
licenses.
   (C)   Within three days after any order of revocation of a license becomes
final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and to the owner of
the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to the owner of the
licensed premises at the address shown in the last application for a license or
in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be deemed
sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once surrender
his or her license to the City Administrator. If the revoked license is not
forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of the Police at the request
of the City Administrator shall immediately cause one of his or her officers to
take physical possession of the license and return it to the City
Administrator.
   (D)   When a license has been revoked the former licensee may, with prior
approval of the City Administrator dispose of and transfer his or her stock of
alcoholic beverages to a licensee, but such a disposition of stock on hand
shall not be delayed longer than 90 days in the case of wholesalers or
distributors nor longer than 20 days in the case of retailers.
   (E)   Hearings conducted by the City Administrator relating to suspension or
revocation shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in §
111.025. Notice of such hearing shall be mailed to licensee at the address on
his or her application by pre-paid certified mail return receipt requested.
Notice shall set the time and place for such hearing and contain charges of
violations.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the City Administrator shall be to the ABC
Board.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City
Administrator, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized
under his or her license.
(Prior Code, § 111.25) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.036 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned
either as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Such applicant or location proposed for transfer or assignment must
meet the same requirements and/or criteria applicable to the respective
licensee in issue.
(Prior Code, § 111.26) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.037 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee will be imposed on the gross receipts of sale
of alcoholic beverages of each license issued within the city limits of
Ashland. This rate will be set and adopted by chapter during each budget
period. The rate is based upon the reasonable estimate compiled by the affected
city departments of the costs involved in regulation, administration or
policing of this chapter. When the Board of Commissioners adopts its annual
budget each year the percentage rate being charged shall be reviewed to ensure
full reimbursement to the city for the cost of any additional policing,
regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages, and the fee charged hereunder may be raised or lowered based upon
the cost of the city to regulate and police the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Such fee shall be in addition to any other tax, fee or license permitted by
law, but a credit against such fee shall be allowed in an amount equal to the
license or fee imposed under §
111.029 and such regulatory fee shall be applied annually from July 1 to June
30.
   (B)   Payment of such fee shall accompany the tax returns approved for such
use by the City Manager or his or her designee and shall be submitted to the
City Administrator by the twentieth day of each month for the preceding month’s
sales one-twelfth of the fee required under §
111.029 shall be deducted each month as credit.
   (C)   Failure to pay such monthly remittance within ten days of the due date
shall constitute a violation and subject the offending licensee to suspension
or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for the failure to file a return and/or to pay monthly
remittance by its due date is 5% of the tax owed for each 30 days or fraction
thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the tax,
provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum shall be applied to any late
payments.
(Prior Code, § 111.27) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.038 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Since a number of licenses issued with the city are in the name of a
corporation, it is necessary that stock ownership changes in such corporation
be reported to the City Administrator. The City Administrator can, therefore,
investigate the person to whom the stock is transferred in order to ascertain
whether that person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an
alcoholic beverage license.
   (B)   As used herein, the word “change” is construed to include any change
in directors or officers of the corporation, or a change in ownership of stock
whereby any person secure 10% of the outstanding stock. Transfer of more than
10% of the total stock shall require a new license.
   (C)   (1)   The following information will be required concerning any new
director, officer or person who secures any interest in an alcoholic beverage
license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If Ashland resident, indicate when residence established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or corporation holding a license under this act; and
         (g)   Extent of stock ownership.
      (2)   This information shall be filed with the City Administrator as an
amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was granted and
shall be provided to the City Administrator within 30 days of the effective
date of the reflected change.
(Prior Code, § 111.28) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.039 DORMANCY.
   (A)   Since under the provisions of KRS 242.1292 and §
111.020 a limited number of licenses exists in any limited sale precincts and
with respect to quota package licenses in wet precincts, it is necessary that a
licensee actually conduct the business authorized by such a license or else the
license will be declared dormant and become null and void after 90 days. Such
is the intent of this section. Realizing that a licensee, like any other
business, may have his or her business interrupted by situations not under his
or her control, various exceptions to the dormancy rule have been included in
this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall become null and void. At the expiration of the 90-day period the
license shall be surrendered to the City Administrator.
   (C)   Except that the provisions of division (A) hereof shall not apply to
any licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, acquisition is voluntary or involuntary,
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Such
licensee shall furnish to the City Administrator a verified statement setting
forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business prior to the
expiration of the 90 days of inactivity, for any of the reasons set forth
herein, and the City Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy with
the license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until
same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no
business is transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license
shall be considered valid unless business is conducted thereunder within 12
months from the date of notice to the City Administrator. Such extension may
not extend beyond the renewal date but may be for such times as the City
Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of his or her sound discretion.
   (D)   All renewal of licenses must be on file with the City Administrator
within 30 days after the expiration of the licenses for the preceding license
period or the same shall be canceled, except where the licensee is unable to
continue in business at the same premises licensed during the preceding license
period due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or
threatened acquisition of these premises by any federal, state, city or other
governmental agency or private corporation, possessing power of eminent domain,
whether such acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through
failure of landlord to renew existing lease; that said licensee shall file a
written verified statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the
license, setting forth these facts, and the City Administrator is hereby
authorized to extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a
reasonable length of time within the sound discretion of the City
Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from
the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said license fee shall
not be payable until application is made for the transfer of said license to a
new location.
(Prior Code, § 111.29) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
PREMISES
§ 111.050 APPROVAL OF PREMISES.
   The City Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage license or
approve a renewal of a license until said applicant and his or her place of
business shall have been approved by the county health department, City
Building Inspector, city and/or state Fire Marshal and all other inspections
required by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 111.40) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.051 PREMISES THAT MAY NOT BE LICENSED.
   (A)   No license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be issued for any
premises unless the applicant for the license is the owner of the premises or
is in possession of the premises under a written lease for a term of not less
than the license period.
   (B)   (1)   No premises shall be licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages at retail except where the licensed premises and the entrance to the
premises are on the street level and located in a business center or on a main
thoroughfare.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to a hotel, club or restaurant,
provided the club or restaurant received a minimum of 50% of its income from
the sale of food and has a minimum seating capacity of 50 people at tables. In
the class of cases described in this division (B) the Administrator to whom the
application is made may, in the exercise of his or her sound discretion, decide
whether the premises are to be licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.41) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.052 APPLICATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To regulate the location of operations of all licensees under this
chapter in the city, the various zones or districts as fixed and established by
the city’s planning and zoning ordinance and the zoning map adopted thereby, as
the same may from time to time be amended, are hereby adopted as part of this
chapter.
   (B)   No license under this chapter shall be issued to any person, firm or
corporation for selling at retail or wholesale any alcoholic beverages at any
premises or location where such business is prohibited under the zoning
ordinances or any other ordinance of the city. Any license issued in violation
of this division (B) shall be void. Provided, however, that any person, firm or
corporation, who or which held a city license for, and actually carried on
there under, said business during or within the last month of the preceding
license period may be granted a similar license by the City Administrator for
the same business at the same premises or location.
(Prior Code, § 111.42) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.053 DISORDERLY PREMISES.
   No person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages at retail shall cause, suffer
or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly. Acts which constitute
disorderly premises consist of permitting patrons to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or wantonly creating a risk through,
fighting, violent, tumultuous or threatening behavior or making unreasonable
noise; or refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard or other emergency; or
creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act that serves
no legitimate purpose. In the course of any one day of operation of a licensed
premises should multiple violations of the ordinance or other statutes or
ordinances of a public disorder nature, e.g., disturbing the peace, be reported
and investigated by the City Police Department, such reoccurrence shall be
reported to the City Administrator by the Chief of Police. The City
Administrator shall in the interest of public health, safety, morals and
welfare direct the Chief of Police to temporarily suspend the license in
question for the remaining hours of the day in question by locking the premises
after dispersing the patrons. The temporary suspension shall remain in effect
until review of the alleged violations by the City Administrator, such review
shall occur on the next business day.
(Prior Code, § 111.43) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.054 NO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any person to
become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee sell
alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently under the
influence of alcoholic beverages, or known to the seller or server to be a
habitual drunkard or a person known to the seller or server to have been
convicted of drunkenness as many as three times within the most recent 12-month
period. No licensee shall permit any person who is actually or apparently under
the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 111.44) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.055 DELINQUENT TAXES.
   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted to any person, firm
or corporation who or which is delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to
the city at the time of issuing said license; nor shall any license be granted
to sell upon any premises or property, owned and/or occupied by the licensee,
upon which there are any delinquent taxes due to the city whether owed by the
licensee or other third party.
(Prior Code, § 111.45) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.056 BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City Administrator and such city
employees or agents who may assist the City Administrator in his or her review.
   (B)   For the purpose of assisting the City Administrator in enforcement of
this chapter, every licensee required to report to the Revenue Cabinet under
KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City Administrator.
Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC Board required by
statute shall be furnished to the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 111.46) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.057 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Administrator shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the city
police officers, State Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrators and field
representatives to enforce the provisions of this ordinance and KRS Chapters
241, 242, 243, 244 and applicable KARs.
(Prior Code, § 111.47) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.058 HOURS FOR THE SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   Restaurant/by the drink and malt beverage licensed premises may remain
open for business daily from 9:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. prevailing time, Monday
through Saturday and shall have their “last call for drinks” at 1:30 a.m.,
except that no sale of alcoholic beverages may be made from 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
until 11:00 a.m. on Sunday or when prohibited by state statute. Sunday
operating hours shall be from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Monday and, shall have
their “last call for drinks” at 12:30 a.m. on Monday. Licensed premises may be
open outside of the hours stated herein so long as the licensee secures the
alcoholic beverages in a locked manner denying access to customers.
   (B)   Premises licensed permitting the package sale at retail may operate
for business daily from 9:00 a.m. until midnight, prevailing time, Monday
through Saturday and from 1:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (C)   All deliveries of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and midnight. No deliveries shall occur on
Sunday.
   (D)   Premises licensed under a non-quota retail malt beverage package
license may operate for business under that license from 9:00 a.m. until
midnight, prevailing time, Monday through Saturday and from 11:00 a.m. until
11:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 111.48) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 196, 2022, passed
12-19-2022)
§ 111.059 LOCKED OR CLOSED OFF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   If a licensee provides on his or her licensed premises a separate
department in which is kept all stocks of alcoholic beverages and all apparatus
connected with the sale of alcoholic beverages, and said department is kept
locked during the period in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is not
permitted, he or she shall be deemed to have complied with §
111.058.
   (B)   If any distilled spirits or malt beverages are found on the outside of
a locked or closed off department of any licensed premises to sell distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages at retail at any hours during which the
licensee is prohibited by the Kentucky Revised Statutes or by this chapter from
selling said distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, a prima facie
presumption shall arise that such distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages
were kept on the outside of the locked or closed off department for the purpose
of sale in violation of this chapter and/or Kentucky Revised Statutes and shall
be grounds for revocation or suspension of the license, and in addition to
other penalties provided for violation of this section the City Administrator
or Ashland Police Department shall be and are hereby authorized to confiscate
such distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages.
(Prior Code, § 111.49) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.060 ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Licensees may advertise or cause to be advertised in any manner any
product that the licensee is licensed to manufacture or sell unless prohibited
by administrative regulations promulgated by the City Administrator.
   (B)   Advertising shall not be prohibited for the following:
      (1)   Advertising in newspapers, magazines or periodicals having a
general circulation;
      (2)   Promotional advertising on radio or television limited to no more
than the name of the licensee and the products the licensee is permitted to
manufacture or sell;
      (3)   Promotional advertising containing the names of establishments or
products displayed on uniforms or equipment of sporting teams;
      (4)   Promotional advertising mailed or delivered to a consumer’s
residence; and
      (5)   Advertising during special civic and charitable events shall be
permitted with prior approval by the City Administrator. A special event
advertising form can be obtained from the City Administrator’s office and shall
be submitted at least five days prior to the event.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars or cards as a medium for
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   All signs must comply with the criteria set forth in Chapter 158 of
this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 111.50) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.061 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be subject to the following
conditions, prohibitions and/or restrictions and all other provisions of KRS
Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244 other ordinances and regulations of the city
applicable thereto.
   (A)   Every licensee hotel and licensee private club shall be entitled to
serve such beverages as such licensee is entitled to serve in a separate room
or rooms at banquets or dinners or where meals are served; however, no hotel/
motel or private club shall maintain or operate or permit to be operated more
than one bar or room where alcoholic beverages are sold and which is opened to
the general public without first obtaining a separate license for each bar or
room which is opened to the general public.
   (B)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises and no nuisance suffered, permitted or maintained
thereon.
   (C)   No gambling or game of chance shall be permitted in any form on such
licensed premises. Dice, slot machines, or any device of chance is prohibited
and shall not be kept on such premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to
have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from the
Regional Public Safety Communications Center as it is now or may hereafter be
operated. In addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this
section, the Chief of Police or the City Administrator shall have the authority
to confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to permit the
sale, use and/or storage of controlled substances defined in Kentucky Revised
Statutes with the exception of possession of properly prescribed medications
upon the licensed premises. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, except
licensed drug stores, to keep or sell or permit to be sold or used on the
licensed premises any narcotic or barbiturate drugs. In addition to other
penalties set out in this chapter for the violation of this section, the City
Administrator shall also have the authority to revoke the license issued to
said premises.
   (F)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or
her premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers
to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of
the general public utilizing the licensed premises. Security standards are
further necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed
premises.
   (G)   No license shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation for the
sale at retail of any alcoholic beverage at any store or other place of
business where a substantial portion of its business consists of the selling of
school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such minors
irrespective of the distance of such store or other place of business from a
church, school or hospital.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in connection
with the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No licensee or agent or employee of a licensee shall permit any person
to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee permit
any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (J)   No licensee or agent or employee shall permit any person or persons,
other than employees of the licensee, to open any bottle of distilled spirits,
wine or malt beverages, and no container of distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverage shall be opened nor its contents consumed on the licensed premises
unless the licensee holds a retail drink license.
   (K)   As used in this section, PREMISES means the place of business of a
person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages including, in the case of drive-in
establishments, the entire lot upon which the business establishment is
situated.
      (1)   No person under 21 years of age shall enter any premises licensed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose of purchasing or receiving
any alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   No person under 21 years of age shall possess for his or her own
use or purchase or attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her
any alcoholic beverages. No person shall aid or assist any person under 21
years of age in purchasing or having delivered or served to him or her any
alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her age
for the purpose of inducing any licensee, or other employee of any licensee, to
sell or serve any alcoholic beverages to such person.
      (4)   No person under 21 years of age shall use or attempt to use any
false, fraudulent or altered identification card or paper or any document to
purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any alcoholic beverage.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
possess in the city any alcoholic beverages outside of the confines of his or
her abode or residence. Any alcoholic beverages found in possession of such
person shall be seized as contraband.
      (6)   (a)   Except as provided in KRS 244.090, a licensee, or the
licensees agents, servants or employees shall not permit any person under 21
years of age to remain on any premises where alcoholic beverages are sold by
the drink or consumed on the premises, unless: the usual and customary business
of the licensee is a hotel, motel, restaurant, convention center, convention
hotel complex, racetrack, simulcast facility, golf course, private club, park,
fair, church, school, athletic complex, athletic arena, theater, small farm
winery, distillery, brewery, winery, convenience store, grocery store, drug
store, entertainment destination center, licensed ABC premises, live music or
other entertainment or public facility, or any other business type, as
determined by the ABC Board through the promulgation of administrative
regulations, whose operations allow it to adequately monitor and prevent
alcohol sales to minors.
         (b)   All alcoholic beverage inventory is kept in a separate, locked
department at all times when minors are on the premises.
      (7)   (a)   Except as provided in division (K)(6) of this section, a
licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant, or employee shall not allow any
person under the age of 21 to remain on any premises that sells alcoholic
beverages by the package unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent
or guardian or the usual and customary business of the establishment is a
convenience store, grocery store, drug store or similar establishment.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (K)(6) of this section, a person
under the age of 21 shall not remain on any premises that sells alcoholic
beverages by the package unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent
or guardian or the usual and customary business of the establishment is a
convenience store, grocery store, drug store or similar establishment.
      (8)   Except as provided in division (K)(6) of this section, a person
under the age of 21 should not remain on any premises that sells alcoholic
beverages by the package unless the person under the age of 21 is accompanied
by a parent or guardian or the usual and customary business of the
establishment is a convenience store, grocery store, drug store or similar
establishment.
   (L)   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to display at all times
in a prominent place a printed card at least eight inches by 11 inches in size
which shall show, in 30-point or large type, substantially as follows:
      WARNING TO MINORS
      Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to
one hundred ($100.00) dollars if they:
         1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
         2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
         3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
   (M)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
   (N)   Persons at least 18 years of age may stock, arrange displays, accept
payment for and sack malt beverages by the package, under the supervision of an
adult. Delivery of malt beverages away from the parking area of the licensed
premises shall not be performed by any under the age of 20 years.
   (O)   No licensee shall knowingly or willfully allow in, upon or about his
or her licensed premises lewd, immoral or obscene entertainment, activities or
advertising materials.
   (P)   No malt beverages shall be sold or purchased for consumption on a
premises with a carry-out package license. No malt beverages shall be sold or
purchased to be carried out of a premises with a restaurant or hotel/motel by-
the-drink license.
(Prior Code, § 111.51) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.062 EMPLOYEE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   A person holding any license shall not knowingly employ in connection
with the licensed business, any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
      (2)   Has twice been convicted of any misdemeanors or offenses directly
or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages within the last
two years;
      (3)   For the purpose of selling and serving alcoholic beverages, is
under the age of 20 years, unless the person employed is at least 18 years of
age; or
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of the person’s employment, has
had any city license issued or any license issued under KRS Chapters 241 to 244
or under any other act or chapter relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale or transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not
apply if the employee’s duties do not involve the sale, service, delivery or
traffic in alcoholic beverages at the licensed premises.
   (C)   A person under the age of 20 years of age whose employment is
authorized under division (A) shall not have duties that include bartending or
any activities listed in KRS 529.010(3).
   (D)   A person who is at least 18 years of age whose employment does not
include the sale or service of alcoholic beverages may work in the warehouse of
a wholesaler or distributor if there is an employee on the premises who is 21
years of age or older.
   (E)   Violation of this section shall subject both employer and employee to
penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of
license.
(Prior Code, § 111.52) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021; Ord. 96, 2022, passed
6-9-2022)
§ 111.063 SERVER TRAINING.
   The city shall institute mandatory service training in the city.
   (A)   Training; standards for certification.
      (1)   All persons, corporations, associations, restaurants, businesses,
clubs or other entities licensed or employed in the sales and service of
alcoholic beverages, including the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the
package or drink, shall participate in and complete a mandatory responsible
beverage service training program approved by the city. Before approval is
granted, the city shall first be satisfied that the training program is genuine
and effectively trains all participants in the recognition of false
identification and age documents as well as the human characteristics of
alcohol intoxication.
      (2)   All persons, corporations, associations, restaurants, businesses,
clubs or other entities licensed by the city for the sale of alcoholic
beverages shall require all their employees who are engaged in the selling or
serving of alcoholic beverages or the managing of premises on which such sales
are offered to complete a responsible beverage service training class approved
by the city.
      (3)   This shall not apply to any manufacturer of alcoholic beverages as
defined in KRS 241.010(40) or any other person, corporation, association,
business or other entity licensed for the wholesale of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Servers.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         SERVER. Any person employed or working in any capacity, whether as an
employee, volunteer help or as a working proprietor, in any premises licensed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages by retail sale and/or dispersed by the
drink or where malt beverages are sold by retail or by the drink, and whose job
duties include the sale, dispersing or service of alcoholic beverages on the
management of the licensed premises.
      (2)   No person shall be employed by a licensed premises as a server
unless the server has successfully completed a city-approved alcoholic beverage
server training program.
         (a)   This training program shall be completed for all newly hired
servers within 30 days of the first date of employment.
         (b)   Licensees, employees, officers or agents who fail to complete
the mandatory responsible beverage service training within the prescribed time
shall not sell or serve alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises until they
have successfully completed the required training.
      (3)   Servers successfully completing the training shall receive a server
certification from the server-training program.
      (4)   No licensed premises in which alcoholic beverages are sold by
retail sale or consumed by the drink or malt beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises or retail sale shall allow any server employed over 30 days to
sell, dispense or service any alcoholic beverage or malt beverages or to manage
any such licensed premises unless that server is the holder of a current server
certification. This includes all holders of an alcohol and/or malt beverage
license.
      (5)   Each such licensed premises shall maintain a file at the licensed
premises for each such server for whom training is required. The file shall
contain the name, job description, date of employment and proof of
certification of each server regulated by this section. This information shall
be available during hours of operation to the City Administrator and to any
alcoholic beverage control officer or any police officer. Training records
shall be retained by the licensee.
      (6)   Any person working at a special event for which a temporary
alcoholic beverage license has been approved shall not be required to comply
with this section.
   (C)   Responsible beverage service training program.
      (1)   Any person who sells and/or serves alcoholic beverages in a
licensed establishment shall participate in and successfully complete a
responsible beverage service training program approved by the city. The city
will not require enrollment in particular classes, but only that the training
be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals expressed in this
section.
      (2)   For a responsible beverage service training program to be approved
by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the following:
         (a)   Applicable federal laws, state statutes and regulations and
local ordinances regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages;
         (b)   Verification of age forms of identification and methods of
recognizing false or misleading age documents;
         (c)   The effect of alcohol on humans and the physiology of alcohol
intoxication;
         (d)   Recognition of the signs or characteristics of alcohol
intoxication;
         (e)   Strategies for intervention and preventing underage and
intoxicated persons from consuming alcoholic beverages; and
         (f)   Potential liability for persons selling or serving alcoholic
beverages.
(Prior Code, § 111.53) (Ord. 96, 2022, passed 6-9-2022)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 111.075 SALES FROM WHOLESALER’S OR DISTRIBUTOR’S PREMISES.
   No purchase or pick up shall be made at a licensed wholesaler’s or
distributor’s premises located within a dry precinct of the city. In further
restriction to the prohibitions contained in KRS 243.180 such licensee’s
transaction, sale and/or delivery of the alcoholic beverage must occur at a
licensed premises under §
111.020 within a limited sale precinct or to another licensed wholesaler or
distributor.
(Prior Code, § 111.60) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   In addition to any administrative action taken for violation of this
chapter, criminal prosecution may be instituted in Boyd District Court alleging
a violation which may result in penalties as set out in KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 8, 2021, passed 1-28-2021)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Pool halls, billiard parlors
   
112.02   Street fairs and carnivals
   
112.03   Game rooms; arcades
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licensing, see
Ch. 115
§ 112.01 POOL HALLS, BILLIARD PARLORS.
   (A)   The operation of public pool tables for profit by business
establishments within the city shall be permitted, so long as the revenue
derived from the operation of such pool tables when considered with other
revenue generating vending machines, video machines, pinball machines or other
permitted recreational, or entertainment devices, does not constitute greater
than 50% of the business’ recreational machine revenue. The operation of pool
tables in non-profit businesses or private clubs are permitted without regard
to the considerations of this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the Assistant City Clerk/ABC/CATV
Administrator may require reasonable recordkeeping by any business operating
pool tables, and the financial records of such businesses are subject to
examination by the Assistant City Clerk/ABC/CATV Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 30-1995, passed 3-2-1995; Ord. 155-2005, passed
10-20-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 STREET FAIRS AND CARNIVALS.
   It shall be unlawful to set up, conduct, maintain, or operate any itinerant
street or indoor fair, carnival or other similar amusement, however designated,
within the city, unless prior approval is granted by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 22-1953, passed 5-26-1953; Ord. 46-1980, passed 5-
22-1980) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 GAME ROOMS; ARCADES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GAME ROOM or ARCADE. A business with its primary source of revenue being
that gained from the operation of video games, pin ball machines, pool tables
and similar games of entertainment or chance. It shall not include bowling
alleys or news stands where such revenue is incidental to the operation of such
enterprise.
   (B)   Purpose. Due to the high incidence of police calls received, it is
determined that it is necessary and appropriate for the Board to establish a
reasonable closing time for the operation of these establishments during the
late hours or 24 hour operation are found to create a public nuisance.
   (C)   Closing times. Game rooms/arcades shall daily close their business for
operation no later than 12:00 midnight, and such business shall remain closed
until no earlier than 9:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 134-1997, passed 10-2-1997) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than
12 months, or both. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Violations of §
112.03 are deemed a violation and shall result in a fine not to exceed $250.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 134-1997, passed 10-2-1997)
CHAPTER 113: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Mobile food vendors
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person who owns, controls, manages or leases a
mobile food unit that is readily movable and that dispenses food or beverages
for immediate service and consumption, or contracts with a person to prepare
foods and vend from, drive or operate a mobile food unit.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 99, 2022, passed 6-10-2022)
§ 113.02 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendor operational requirements. Mobile food vendors
conducting business within the city must comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   All mobile food vendors must abide by all applicable federal, state
and local laws, rules and regulations. Mobile food vendors must operate in
compliance with all state laws and regulations and must maintain all necessary
licenses including:
         (a)   City’s business license;
         (b)   All required licenses from the Boyd County and Kentucky Health
Departments for operation of a mobile food service; and
         (c)   An approved city mobile food vendor inspection permit issued by
the Ashland Fire Department upon inspection for compliance with the version of
the International Fire Code in effect for the city.
      (2)   Mobile food vendors may vend only on private property with the
consent of the property owner and may not encroach into any city right-of- way
adjoining the property with the mobile food vending establishment or any
accessory items such as trash cans, tables, chairs and the like. If requested
by the city, a mobile food vendor shall promptly provide proof of a property
owner’s consent to operate on the property.
      (3)   A mobile food vendor shall not conduct any vending in a way that
causes congestion or blocking of vehicle or pedestrian traffic or fire lanes.
Each vendor has an affirmative and independent duty to determine the safety and
suitability of any particular location of operation and to operate in a manner
reasonably calculated to avoid and prevent harm to people and to other
vehicles.
      (4)   All areas within and surrounding a mobile food service
establishment must be maintained in a clean, neat and sanitary condition. A
mobile food vendor shall provide one private trash bin for public use with
capacity of no less than 13 gallons each. Trash bins shall be anchored or
otherwise secured upright. A mobile food vendor shall remove all litter
generated by its operation at the vendor’s expense. The mobile food vendor
shall not place trash or litter from the mobile food vending establishment in
any unauthorized private or city receptacle.
      (5)   All mobile food vendors must ensure that individuals with
disabilities have comparable access to mobile food vending establishment. If
existing designs cannot be modified to be accessible to people with
disabilities, the method of providing service must be modified to become
accessible.
      (6)   A mobile food vending establishment cannot be permanently located
on any property and cannot function as a permanent structure.
   (B)   Prohibited conduct. No mobile food vendor shall:
      (1)   Vend in a city public right-of-way, including on any public street,
alley, sidewalk or in any on-street parking space, except in the following
situations:
         (a)   In conjunction with a special event permit that has been
approved by the city, provided that the special event includes the closure of
the public right-of-way and authorizes the presence of mobile food vendors;
         (b)   In conjunction with a special event permit that has been
approved by the city for a city park, provided that the special event permit
allows the event in a city park and provides for the presence of mobile food
vendors in designated areas of the park; or
         (c)   In Central Park as hereinafter set forth.
      (2)   Operate a mobile food service business within 300 feet of any event
held in the District without obtaining written permission from the event
sponsor;
      (3)   Operate a mobile food service business within 300 feet of any
existing brick and mortar restaurant except as part of an approved special
event;
      (4)   Operate a mobile food establishment within any area zoned for
residential use or within 300 feet of any area zoned for residential use,
except a mobile food vendor primarily selling ice cream may operate on public
rights-of-way and in areas zoned for residential use;
      (5)   Operate within any city park without authorization pursuant to a
special event permit or obtaining a vendor permit from the Parks and Recreation
Department to operate in Central Park pursuant to division (D);
      (6)   Place any object that blocks any pedestrian pathway or ADA access;
      (7)   Utilize any signage other than signage that is affixed to the
exterior of the mobile food vending establishment or other than two additional
banners or signs located within 100 feet of the establishment; or
      (8)   Project audible amplified music or sound with respect to stationary
mobile food vending vehicles or make any unreasonably loud noise for the
purpose of advertising or attracting attention to the mobile food vending
establishment with respect to both mobile and stationary mobile food vending
vehicles.
   (C)   Certificate of insurance. Every mobile food vendor that operates on
city property or within the right-of-way pursuant to a special event permit or
subject to a vendor permit within Central Park shall furnish to the city proof
of adequate insurance coverage with designated limits as required by the city.
The insurance policy shall name the city and its representatives as an
additional insured for any liability arising directly or indirectly from the
operation of a mobile food vendor. The city may waive some or all of this
requirement if it determines that the mobile food vendor is operating as part
of a special event permit which has provided adequate insurance to cover the
vending operation. If insurance coverage is not waived by city under this
section, any permission given to vend on public property shall be deemed void
in the absence of a current insurance policy meeting the terms of this section.
   (D)   Food trucks in Central Park.
      (1)   Food trucks shall be allowed to operate in Central Park on such
dates and times and in such places as subsequently set forth herein.
      (2)   In order to operate in Central Park, food trucks must first provide
to the City Parks Department proof of the following:
         (a)   A valid city business license;
         (b)   All necessary and required state and local health department
licenses;
         (c)   Proof of insurance as set forth in division (C) of this section;
and
         (d)   An approved city vendor inspection permit issued by the Ashland
Fire Department.
      (3)   Upon submission of the previously referenced information to the
city of Ashland Parks Department, a food truck vendor shall be issued a written
permit authorizing operation of the identified food truck in Central Park for
the duration of the calendar year on the terms set forth in this chapter. The
annual cost of the permit shall be $100.
      (4)   Food trucks holding a valid permit may operate at the former
location of the concession venue near the intersection of Chuck Woolery
Boulevard and Chattin Drive in Central Park from April 1 to November 1 seven
days a week from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., on a first come first serve basis
with respect to limited available space and electric and water outlets.
   (E)   Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
chapter and any other ordinance adopted by the city, the provisions of this
chapter shall be applicable and shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 99, 2022, passed 6-10-2022)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person operating as a mobile food vendor in noncompliance with any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and may be fined not
less than $100 or more than $500 for each such violation.
(Prior Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 99, 2022, passed 6-10-2022)
CHAPTER 114: TOWING SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Definitions
   
114.002   Private parking lots; towing authorized
   
114.003   Roster of eligible towing services
   
114.004   Motor vehicle accidents; owner or operator may choose towing service
   
114.005   Abandoned or junked vehicles; owner may not choose towing service
   
114.006   Search for owner; police records required
   
114.007   Causes for impoundment
Service Calls
   
114.020   Towing service response time
   
114.021   Accident debris
Wrecker Unit Equipment
   
114.035   General requirements
   
114.036   Required equipment enumerated
   
114.037   Driver to be familiar with equipment
Impoundment Lots
   
114.050   Impoundment lots required
   
114.051   Specifications for storage space
   
114.052   Security of lot; responsibility of towing service for theft
Operating Requirements
   
114.065   Business hours
   
114.066   Proof of insurance required
   
114.067   Records required
   
114.068   Vehicles placed on hold by police not to be released
   
114.069   City’s rights to use other towing services
   
114.070   Towing service to indemnify city
Disposal of Vehicles
   
114.085   Vehicles eligible for disposal
   
114.086   Battery disconnection required
   
114.087   Sale of parts prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Junked vehicles, see §§
95.15 through
95.17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. A vehicle left upon a county road or city street under
circumstances indicating abandonment for three consecutive days shall be
presumed to be abandoned.
(KRS 189.751(1))
   FLASHING LIGHTS. All public safety vehicles shall be equipped with one or
more flashing rotating or oscillating yellow lights, visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle.
(KRS 189.920(4))
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them and includes off-street parking
facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned, except
for hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
(KRS 189.010(3))
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. As used in KRS 189.920 to 189.950, public utility
repair vehicle; wreckers; state, county or municipal service vehicles and
equipment; highway equipment which performs work that requires stopping and
standing or moving at slow speeds within the traveled portions of highways; and
vehicles which are escorting wide-load or slow-moving trailers or trucks.
(KRS 189.910(2))
   TOWING SERVICE. Any person, firm or corporation licensed to do business in
the city for the towing, impoundment and storage of motor vehicles and is on
the eligibility roster for towing services at the Regional Public Safety
Communications Center (RPSCC) or is an applicant for the eligibility roster.
Each towing service shall have separate and distinct facilities, including a
storage/impoundment lot and equipment as enumerated in §
114.036 of this chapter.
   VEHICLE. Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or property
over or upon the public highways of this Commonwealth and all vehicles passing
over or upon the highways excepting road rollers, road graders, farm tractors
and other construction equipment which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways.
(KRS 189.010(18))
   WRECKER. A motor vehicle on which a wrecking crane and/or other equipment
suitable for motor vehicle towing service has been permanently mounted.
(KRS 189.011(1)(b))
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.002 PRIVATE PARKING LOTS; TOWING AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Impounding of motor vehicles. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit
owners of private parking lots from removing, by towing, vehicles parked on
such private parking lots without the owner’s consent.
   (B)   Notification. A representative of an organization, agency, firm or
person that has a vehicle towed from any location within the city corporate
limits for impoundment shall notify the Police Department within two hours of
the towing and shall provide make, model, license number, and other pertinent
information to assist the police in identifying the vehicle and ownership.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.003 ROSTER OF ELIGIBLE TOWING SERVICES.
   A towing service eligibility roster shall be established at the Regional
Public Safety Communication Center (RPSCC) for towing services that have met
the requirements of this chapter and have submitted an application to the RPSCC
to be on the eligibility roster. The towing service at the top of the
eligibility roster shall receive the primary call for towing service within the
city for a period of one month after which time the next eligible towing
service on the roster will receive one month, until each eligible towing
service has received a turn. The eligibility roster shall be updated as needed
with each new towing service added at the bottom of the eligibility roster.
Failure of each towing service to maintain the provisions of this chapter
including, but not limited to, the purchase of a business privilege license and
insurance shall result in the towing service’s removal from the eligibility
roster.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.004 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS; OWNER OR OPERATOR MAY CHOOSE TOWING SERVICE.
   (A)   The owner/operator of a motor vehicle that has been involved in an
accident and is inoperable and is causing a traffic hazard shall be given the
opportunity to give a preference as to the choice of towing service. In the
event the owner/operator is injured and is otherwise unable to give a
preference on a towing service, the police shall call or cause the RPSCC to
call the towing service at the top of the eligibility roster.
   (B)   When the owner/operator in division (A) of this section has no
preference, the RPSCC will be notified to dispatch the towing service on the
eligibility roster at the RPSCC.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.005 ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES; OWNER MAY NOT CHOOSE TOWING SERVICE.
   When a vehicle is subject to being towed by the police for violation of §§
95.15 through
95.17 or for three days violation, the owner, when known, shall not be given a
choice of towing service companies.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.006 SEARCH FOR OWNER; POLICE RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The Department of Police shall diligently attempt to determine ownership of
each vehicle towed within the city corporate limits, and notify the owner when
possible that the vehicle has been towed. A record shall be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year for those towed vehicles except for
those vehicles towed after becoming disabled as a result of a traffic crash.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.007 CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   Causes for removing vehicles from city streets and highways shall include,
but not be limited to:
   (A)   Recovery of stolen vehicles;
   (B)   Abandoned vehicles;
   (C)   Vehicles that pose a threat to public safety by creating a traffic
hazard;
   (D)   Vehicles wrecked and inoperable;
   (E)   Junk vehicles including those with missing parts;
   (F)   Vehicles confiscated for police evidence;
   (G)   Vehicles which are having mechanical problems for which assistance is
requested; and
   (H)   When a threat to public safety exists due to emergency weather
conditions such as severe snow storms, flooding and special events such as
scheduled and announced parades, foot races, displays and the like.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §§
95.15 through
95.18
SERVICE CALLS
§ 114.020 TOWING SERVICE RESPONSE TIME.
   (A)   The towing service on the RPSCC eligibility roster that responds to a
call for service shall respond immediately and shall not exceed 15 minutes from
time of notification to time of arrival at the location the towing service is
needed.
   (B)   Tardiness on calls for towing service, including three incidents
within a seven-day period, shall be cause for removal from the RPSCC’s
eligibility roster for towing vehicles from within the city corporate limits.
   (C)   When the towing service cannot honor a towing request it shall be the
responsibility of the towing service to immediately communicate to RPSCC that
the request cannot be honored.
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.021 ACCIDENT DEBRIS.
   The wrecker unit operator shall clean up and dispose of debris specified in
§
114.035.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
WRECKER UNIT EQUIPMENT
§ 114.035 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Pursuant to KRS 189.754, each wrecker unit shall be equipped with tools
necessary to remove and properly dispose of vehicle debris left on the street
or highway after an accident. Each wrecker unit shall also be equipped with all
safety devices and markings, including, but not limited to, flares, barricades,
signs and codes required by law and/or applicable regulations, and which are
required to perform all tasks set forth herein in the safest manner possible.
The towing service is solely responsible for safety of its operations.
(Prior Code, § 114.30) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.036 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ENUMERATED.
   The towing service shall have equipment enumerated herein:
   (A)   Two wrecker units with chassis minimum weight of one ton, specifically
designed to tow automobiles, pick-up trucks and one ton trucks;
   (B)   Air supply for tire inflation;
   (C)   Minimum of one wrecker unit with one four-ton capacity motor driven
winch;
   (D)   Capability to tow imported automobiles, pick-up trucks and other
vehicles not designed to be towed by conventional means;
   (E)   One wrecker unit equipped with a permanent metal cradle;
   (F)   Safety devices necessary to conform to requirements of all Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, 49 C.F.R. § 392.22(b); and
   (G)   The towing service wrecker unit(s) shall be radio dispatched with a
dispatcher on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week, except when the wrecker
units are equipped with a cellular telephone. When wrecker unit(s) are equipped
with a cellular telephone it shall not be required that a dispatcher be on duty
at the impound/storage lot.
(Prior Code, § 114.31) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.037 DRIVER TO BE FAMILIAR WITH EQUIPMENT.
   Each driver/operator shall be familiar with recommendations of various
vehicle manufacturers regarding towing.
(Prior Code, § 114.32) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
IMPOUNDMENT LOTS
§ 114.050 IMPOUNDMENT LOTS REQUIRED.
   The towing service shall provide a storage lot for towed vehicles which
shall be located within the city corporate limits in the zone permitted for
such business and for the exclusive use of the towing service.
(Prior Code, § 114.45) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.051 SPECIFICATIONS FOR STORAGE SPACE.
   (A)   The towing service storage/impound lot shall be capable of storing a
minimum of 25 vehicles with a clearance of 18 inches to the side of each
vehicle and a minimum of 36 inches between each row of vehicles.
   (B)   The towing service storage/impound lot shall as a minimum be gravel,
asphalt or concrete and shall be kept in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 114.46) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.052 SECURITY OF LOT; RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWING SERVICE FOR THEFT.
   (A)   The towing service storage/impound lot(s) shall be enclosed with an
eight-foot high privacy/security fence which complies with city building code.
   (B)   The towing service shall provide minimum security to prevent vehicle
theft and pilferage. Minimum security includes, but is not limited to, an
eight-foot solid fence of which the top two feet can be of barbed wire. All
entryway doors and gates shall have locks and chains adequate to prevent
unauthorized entry. The towing service is responsible for all liability due to
theft and pilferage from any vehicle stored on the towing service storage/
impound lot.
   (C)   The towing service storage/impound lot shall be lighted sufficiently
to distinguish each vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 114.47) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
OPERATING REQUIREMENTS
§ 114.065 BUSINESS HOURS.
   (A)   The towing service shall maintain regular business hours of a minimum
of eight hours per day between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. local time.
   (B)   The towing service shall be available for towing service calls 24
hours per day, seven days per week.
(Prior Code, § 114.60) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.066 PROOF OF INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The towing service shall carry insurance in amounts that meet applicable
standards for towing service providers and comply with applicable federal and
state laws. Each towing service shall provide proof of insurance to the RPSCC
at the time application for the towing service eligibility roster is made.
(Prior Code, § 114.61) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.067 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The towing service shall maintain records acceptable to the city
concerning all vehicles impounded. Such records shall include, but not be
limited to, information concerning the owner, date and time of release from
impoundment, and fees paid by vehicle owner for release of his or her vehicle.
   (B)   Records specified in division (A) of this section shall be maintained
in accordance with impoundment procedures of the Police Department and shall be
open for inspection by personnel of that Department at any time.
(Prior Code, § 114.62) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.068 VEHICLES PLACED ON HOLD BY POLICE NOT TO BE RELEASED.
   No vehicle shall be released by the towing service that the police have
placed a “hold” on until instructed by the Police Department to do so, and
after proper evidence is presented to show ownership and adequate standing in
the vehicle to justify release.
(Prior Code, § 114.63) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.069 CITY’S RIGHTS TO USE OTHER TOWING SERVICES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from contacting another
towing service when the towing service first called cannot immediately honor a
request for service including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   The towing service does not have equipment available at time of
request; or
   (B)   The towing service does not have equipment capable of performing the
task requested.
(Prior Code, § 114.64) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.070 TOWING SERVICE TO INDEMNIFY CITY.
   The towing service will indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officials,
agents, employees and assigns from and against all claims, damages, losses and
expenses including attorney fees arising out of or resulting from the
performance of the towing service, provided that any such claim, damage, bodily
injury, sickness, disease or death, or injury to or destruction of tangible
property, including the loss of use resulting therefrom, and is caused in whole
or in part by any negligent or willful act or omission of the towing service,
or anyone directly or indirectly employed by them or anyone for whose acts any
of them may be liable.
(Prior Code, § 114.65) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES
§ 114.085 VEHICLES ELIGIBLE FOR DISPOSAL.
   Each motor vehicle that has been stored for 60 days on the storage/
impoundment lot and meets all legal requirements shall be disposed of in
accordance with KRS 376.275 and KRS 376.280.
(Prior Code, § 114.80) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.086 BATTERY DISCONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Each vehicle stored on the towing service storage/impoundment lot shall have
the battery disconnected from the battery cables.
(Prior Code, § 114.81) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004)
§ 114.087 SALE OF PARTS PROHIBITED.
   Selling of motor vehicle parts from vehicles on the towing service storage/
impoundment lot and the storage of automobile parts for sale is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 114.82) (Ord. 38-1992, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. 64-2004, passed 5-
20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: LICENSING
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Levy of license fee; general
   
115.03   Employees
   
115.04   Net business profit
   
115.05   Exemptions
   
115.06   Returns and payment of tax; general
   
115.07   Extension of time for filing returns
   
115.08   Enforcing officers; powers and duties
   
115.09   Exclusion of levies prohibited by law
   
115.10   Information confidential; offense; fine
   
115.11   Penalties
   
115.12   Violation, fines
   
115.13   Revenue to be deposited in General Fund
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, or any other state, territory
or foreign country or dependents.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another for a financial
consideration or its equivalent, under an express or implied contract, and who
is under the control and direction of the latter, and shall include temporary,
provisional, casual or part-time employment.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body or unit or administration or agency, or any other entity, who as that
employer has one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other
compensation basis, regardless of whether such employer is engaged in business
or is excluded by the terms of that definition.
   NET PROFIT. The net income from the operation of a business, profession,
occupation or enterprise after provision for all costs or expenses incurred in
the conduct thereof and shall be the same as reported for federal income tax
purposes, excluding items exempted under this chapter but without deduction of
taxes based on income or the license fee imposed under this chapter or any
operating loss carry-over or carry-back. Net income includes both ordinary
income and capital gains realized from the sale of a business or all or
substantially all of the assets of a business where the person or entity has
been engaged in that business within the city regardless of whether that
business was active during the year the gain was realized.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS. Trade association, union, chamber of commerce,
board of trade or corporation or association organized and operated exclusively
for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational or civic purposes,
or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals; or clubs or fraternal
organizations operated exclusively for social, literary, educational or
fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings or income or receipts of such
units, groups or associations inures to the benefit of any private shareholder
or individual.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual, partnership, fiduciary, association, corporation
or other entity domiciled outside the corporate limits of the city.
   RESIDENT. An individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity domiciled or having a business situs within the corporate limits of the
city.
   SALES. Net sales of merchandise or of services, or of both, computed by
whatever method of accounting is authorized for federal income tax purposes.
   SALES WITHIN THE CITY. Includes sales of merchandise delivered to a customer
within the city or services performed within the city for a customer.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.02 LEVY OF LICENSE FEE; GENERAL.
   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee upon all persons,
associations, corporations or other entities engaged in any occupation, trade,
profession or other activity in the city for the privilege of engaging in such
occupation, trade, profession or other activity, which license fee shall be
measured by and be equal to 2% of all subject salaries, wages, commissions and
other compensation, earned by every person in the city for work done or
services performed or rendered in the city regardless of where payment is made
or received; and of the net profits of all businesses, professions or
occupations from activities conducted in the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.03 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees in general. The license fee is imposed on both residents and
nonresidents of the city at the rate of 2% of all subject salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensation earned for work done or services performed
or rendered in the city. The following are subject to the license fee:
      (1)   Salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, incentive payments, and
other compensation received by an individual, whether directly or indirectly
through an agent and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered:
         (a)   As an officer, director, agent or employee, or both, of a
corporation (including a corporation of the first or nonprofit class), joint
stock association or joint stock company;
         (b)   As an officer, agent or employee (as distinguished from a
partner or member) of a partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by one or more persons;
         (c)   As an agent employee (as distinguished from the proprietor) of a
business, trade or profession, conducted by an individual owner;
         (d)   As an officer, agent or employee (whether elected or appointed,
enlisted or commissioned) of a governmental administration, agency, arm,
authority, board, body, branch, bureau, department, division, section or unit
thereof; and
         (e)   As an officer, agent or employee of any other entity.
      (2)   Salaries, wages, bonuses, incentive payments, and other
compensation received by an individual, whether directly or through an agent
and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered:
         (a)   Whether based upon hourly, daily, weekly, semimonthly, monthly,
annual, unit of production of piece-work rates; and
         (b)   Whether paid by an individual, partnership, association,
corporation (including a corporation of the first or nonprofit class),
governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section or unit, or any other entity.
      (3)   Commissions received by an employee, whether directly or through an
agent, and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered, regardless of
how computed or by whom paid. If such commissions are included in the net
earnings of a trade, business or profession regularly carried on by such
individual and, therefore, subject to license fees under §
115.04, they shall not again be separately taxed.
      (4)   Fees and other earned income, unless such fees are properly
included as part of the nets profits of a trade, business, profession or
enterprise regularly carried on by the individual and such net profits are
subject to tax under §
115.04. Compensation paid to a director or officer of a corporation are subject
to withholding under this chapter as in the case of any other employee.
      (5)   Other compensation will be treated as follows.
         (a)   Subject to the license fee.
            1.   Tips received by waiters and others. Tips received are subject
to the license fee and will be reported in the same manner as regular earnings;
            2.   Vacation, holiday and/or sick benefits. Payments made to
employees by an employer as vacation, holiday and/or sick payments are subject;
            3.   Separation payments. Payments made to employees by an employer
at the time of a voluntary or involuntary separation (dismissal) of the
employee from the service of the employer, are to be regarded as subject to the
license fee;
            4.   Employee contributions; retirement plan and the like. Employee
contributions to any retirement, profit sharing or deferred compensation plan,
which are deferred for federal income tax purposes under a salary reduction
agreement or similar arrangement, including, but not limited to, salary
reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408,
414(h) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            5.   Employee contributions; welfare benefits and the like.
Employee contributions to any welfare benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit
plan made by salary reduction or other payment method which permits employees
to elect to reduce federal taxable compensation under the Internal Revenue
Code, including but not limited to §§ 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            6.   Property and services received as compensation. The fair
market value of property or services received as compensation by an employee
and paid by the employer including board and lodging and similar items where
such board and lodging is considered part of the compensation paid and is not
afforded for the convenience of the employer; and
            7.   Other income. All other income paid by an employer and
received by an employee for the performance of any activity subject to the
license fee, not expressly exempt (see below) unless such income is to be
reported and a net profit license fee paid thereon under the provisions of
these regulations.
         (b)   Not subject to the license fee.
            1.   Retirement payments. Periodical payments commonly recognized
as old-age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from service after
reaching a specified age or after a stated period of employment, are not
subject to the license fee;
            2.   Disability and unemployment compensation. Payments made to
employees by an employer under a disability, or accident plan are not subject
to the license fee. Unemployment compensation payments by the state or any
other agency are not subject;
            3.   Death benefits. Death benefits payable by an employer to the
beneficiary of an employee or to the employee’s estate, whether payable in a
single sum or otherwise, are not subject to the license fee;
            4.   Benefits arising under the Workers’ Compensation Act. Amounts
received by employees under the Workers’ Compensation Act as compensation for a
disability sustained during the course of employment, together with any amount
of damages received by suit or agreement on account of such disability, are not
subject to the license fee;
            5.   Allowances and reimbursement for expenses. Reasonable sums
allowed and paid by employers to employees for expenses necessarily and
actually incurred by the employee in the direct performance of his or her
services;
            6.   Strike benefits. Strike pay benefits paid from a fund which is
established and/or replenished, in whole or in part, from the employee’s wages;
            7.   Kentucky National Guard. Compensation paid members of the
Kentucky National Guard for active duty training, unit training assemblies and
annual field training;
            8.   Employer contributions to qualified plans not arising from
employee election. Employer contributions to qualified plans not arising from
employee election;
            9.   Employer payments for employee benefits. Employer’s payments
for employee’s life insurance premiums not treated as wages for federal income
tax purposes, employer’s payments for employee’s health insurance benefits;
            10.   Student grants. Stipends, honorariums, grants and other
payments made to students to the extent that such payments are conditioned only
upon the recipient’s pursuit of studies and/or participation in athletic or
other intercollegiate competition, and scholarships and other noncash fringe
benefits received by duly registered students from the school, college or
university in which they are enrolled;
            11.   Payments to nonresident military personnel. Payments to
nonresident military personnel exempt from state and location taxation under
the Soldiers and Sailors Federal Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 574);
            12.   Compensation to individual domestic workers and the like.
Compensation to individual domestic workers or care providers; and
            13.   Newspaper routes. Compensation to individuals with single
newspaper routes.
         (c)   Applicability of the foregoing to employees whose compensation
is not wholly subject. In the case of individuals whose compensation is earned
for services performed both within and without the city and who receive subject
payments as set forth in the foregoing rules and regulations, they are subject
to the license fee in the same proportion that services performed within the
city bear to their total employment time.
   (B)   Withholding of license fee.
      (1)   (a)   It is the duty of each employer who employs one or more
persons on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis, to deduct,
at the time of the payment of such compensation, the license fee on such
salary, wage, bonus, incentive payment, commission or other compensation due by
the employer to the employee. The license fee shall be deducted by the employer
from all compensation paid to employees for activities in the city.
         (b)   However, the mere fact that the license fee is not withheld will
not relieve the employee of the responsibility of filing a return and paying
the fee on the compensation received. A nonresident employer, either
maintaining in the city an office, business address, or doing business therein,
or who is otherwise subject to service of legal process, is subject to the
withholding provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Where an individual receives compensation for personal services
rendered or performed partly within and partly outside the city, the
withholding agent shall deduct and withhold that portion of the compensation
which is earned within the city in accordance with the following rules of
apportionment.
         (a)   If the individual is a traveling salesperson, agent or other
employee, whose compensation on the basis of commissions depends directly on
the volume of business transacted by the individual, the deducting and
withholding shall attach to the portion of the entire compensation which the
volume of business transacted by the employee within the city bears to the
volume of business transacted by the employee both within and outside of the
city. There shall be no proration of compensation for employees headquartered
within the city where travel is only incidentally connected with the
occupation.
         (b)   The deducting and withholding of personal service compensation
of all other employees, including officers of corporations, shall attach to the
portion of the personal service compensation of such employee which the total
number of hours employed within the city bears to the total number of hours
employed both within and outside the city.
         (c)   If it is impossible to apportion the earnings as provided above
because of the peculiar nature of the services of the employee, or of the usual
basis of compensation, apportionment shall be made in accordance with the
facts, and the fee deducted and withheld accordingly. With respect to each such
employee or group of employees similarly or identically circumstanced, the
employer shall furnish the Finance Director a detailed statement of facts.
         (d)   The occasional entry into the city of an employee, who performs
the duties for which the employee is employed entirely outside the city, but
enters the city for the purposes of reporting, receiving instructions,
accounting and the like, incidental to the employee’s duties outside the city
shall not be deemed to take such employee out of the class of those rendering
their services entirely outside the city.
   (C)   Returns of license fee and payment.
      (1)   The return and payment required to be made on account of deductions
by employers from salaries, wages and other compensation of employees shall be
made on the last day of the month following the end of the calendar quarter.
      (2)   (a)   If the last day of the month following the end of the
calendar quarter falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the return and
payment shall be made on the next regularly scheduled working day. If the
envelope bearing the return(s) is postmarked on or before the due date, late
filing penalties will not apply. The employer shall report for the quarterly
periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year
the wages from which license fees have been so withheld, and shall make the
payment required to be made on account of the employee withholding of
occupational license fees on or before the time required for the filing of the
quarterly returns.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section,
each employer who employs persons within the city for which the aggregate city,
occupational license fees required to be withheld from all employee wages for
any one of the preceding four quarters shall have exceeded the sum of $3,000
shall remit the occupational license fees required to be withheld from
employees monthly on or before the last day of the month following the month in
which the wages shall have been paid by the employer, or (in the case of
deferred compensation subject to the license fees imposed hereunder) on the
last day of the month following the month in which the compensation is deemed
to have been earned by the employee.
      (3)   The returns required to be filed under this section shall be made
on forms prescribed by and obtainable from the Occupational License/Net Profit
Division and/or the Finance Director.
      (4)   On or before February 28 of each year, each employer shall file
with the Finance Director on the form prescribed by and obtainable from the
Occupational License/Net Profit Division and/or the Finance Director an annual
information return listing each employee from whom the license fee has been
withheld, showing the employees name, federal ID number (Social Security
number), total annual compensation, total annual compensation subject to the
license fee and the amount of license fee withheld from each employee during
the preceding calendar year.
      (5)   The annual information return shall include a copy of form W-2 for
each employee.
      (6)   The gross compensation to be reported for each employee should be
for the full 12 calendar months of the year, or such portion thereof as the
employee reported on was employed.
      (7)   The failure of any employer, either residing within or outside of
the city, to collect the license fee and to make such return shall not relieve
the employee from the payment of such fee in compliance with these regulations
respecting the making of returns and the payment of license fees.
      (8)   Every employer is deemed to be a trustee of the city in collecting
and holding the license fee required under this chapter to be withheld, and the
funds so collected by such withholding are deemed to be trust funds. Every such
employer required to deduct and withhold the license fee at the source is
liable directly to the city for the payment of such fee whether actually
collected by such employer or not.
      (9)   Every employer is required to submit a copy of Forms 1096 and the
respective Form 1099s to reflect monies paid to contract labor, subcontractors
and the like.
      (10)   An individual employee subject to the fee shall file his or her
return on or before the federal income tax filing due date of each year for the
previous year’s wages/compensation on the forms prescribed by the city and
obtainable from the Occupational License/Net Profit Division and/or the Finance
Director.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.04 NET BUSINESS PROFIT.
   (A)   General. In the case of an individual, partnership, association,
corporation, fiduciary or other entity engaged in the conduct, operation or
prosecution of any business, profession or other enterprise, there is imposed
an annual license fee being the greater of $100 or 2% of the net profits of
such business, profession or other enterprise, if and to the extent conducted
in or derived from activity in the city, whichever is greater. In determining
the proportion or amount of the subject net profits of a business entity doing
business within and without the city, such business entity shall use and apply
a business allocation percentage formula computed on the basis of business
receipts within and outside the city and payrolls within and outside the city.
BUSINESS RECEIPTS means the sum total of gross receipts from sales plus gross
credit or charges for work done and performed or services rendered. PAYROLLS
means the total wages, salaries and other personal service compensation.
      (1)   Determination of fee. After determining such business allocation
percentage, the license fee shall be determined by applying that percentage to
the entire net profits of the license payer wherever derived, thus arriving at
the subject net profit, and computing 2% of the resultant subject net profit.
      (2)   Fee adjustment. Should it appear to the Occupational License/Net
Profit Division and/or the Director of Finance that any agreement,
understanding or arrangement exists between the license payer and any other
person whereby the activity, business, income or capital of the license payer
is improperly or inaccurately reflected, the Finance Director may adjust items
of income, deductions and capital in computing any allocation percentage,
provided any income directly traceable thereto is also excluded from entire net
income, so as equitably to determine the license fee.
      (3)   Explanation of business receipts factor. The percentage of the
license payer’s business receipts within the city is determined by ascertaining
the taxpayer’s business receipts within the city during the period covered by
the report and dividing the sum of such business receipts by the license
payer’s total business receipts within and without the city during such period.
Receipts from the following are allocable to the city:
         (a)   Sales of the licensee’s tangible personal property delivered to
the buyer within the corporate limits of the city;
         (b)   Work done and performed or services rendered in the city;
         (c)   Rentals from property situated in the city where the rental of
such property is a business activity;
         (d)   All other business receipts earned in the city. All receipts of
the period covered by the report (computed on the cash or accrual basis, in
accordance with the method of accounting used in the computation of the license
payer’s entire net income) must be taken into account; and
         (e)   Business allocation factor equals “receipts inside city” divided
by “total receipts.”
       FACTOR = RECEIPTS INSIDE CITY
             TOTAL RECEIPTS
      (4)   Compensation for work done and performed or services rendered.
         (a)   The term COMPENSATION may include not only payment in cash or
property but also the gross credits to or charges by the licensee, under its
normal and usual accounting practices, for the performance of work or services.
For example, a plant, factory or other establishment in the city which
processes material or manufactures parts for other plants or factories owned by
the licensee, and which may receive credit for the performance of such services
only by bookkeeping entries, may be chargeable under this chapter with the
gross amount of such entries in applying the formula discussed hereunder.
Furthermore, such bookkeeping entries may be considered in lieu of cash or
property payment in determining the net profits of any license payer under this
chapter, even though the business allocation percentage formula may not be used
by or be applicable to the licensee. However, whenever such gross credits or
charges are included in computing the net profits of any licensee who pays a
license fee thereon under this chapter, the same licensee shall not be twice
subject in the same fee period by the separate imposition of a fee upon such
gross credits or charges.
         (b)   Compensation and other receipts from work done or services
performed within the city are allocable to the city and subject under this
chapter. All amounts so received credited or charged by a licensee in payment
for such work or services are so allocable, irrespective of whether done or
performed by employees or agents of the licensee, by subcontractors or by any
other persons. It is immaterial where such amounts were payable or where they
were received. Commissions or fees received by the licensee are allocated to
the city if the services for which the commissions were paid were performed in
the city. If the license payer’s services for which commissions or fees were
paid were performed for the license payer by sales persons or other agents or
employees attached to or working out of the city place of business of the
licensee, the licensee’s services will be deemed to have been performed in the
city. Where a lump sum is received by the licensee in payment for services
within and outside the city, the amount attributable to services within the
city is to be determined on the basis of the relative values of, or amounts of
time spent in the performance of, such services within and outside the city, or
by some other reasonable method approved by the Finance Director. Full details
must be submitted with the licensee’s report.
         (c)   All business receipts earned by the city licensee within the
city are allocable to the city. Business receipts are not considered to have
been earned by the licensee in the city solely by reason of the fact that they
were payable in or actually received in the city. Receipts from the sale of
real property held by the licensee as a dealer for sale to customers in the
regular course of business are business receipts and are allocable to the city
if the real property was situated in the city. Receipts from sales of
intangibles included in business capital, held by the licensee as a dealer for
sale to customers in the regular course of business, are business receipts and
are allocable to the city if the sales were made in the city or through a
regular place of business of the licensee in the city.
      (5)   Payroll factor.
         (a)   The percentage of the license payer’s payroll allocable to the
city is determined by dividing the wages, salaries and other personal service
compensation of the licensee’ employees within the city during the period
covered by the report by the total amount of compensation of all the licensee’s
employees during such period. Wages, salaries and other compensation are
computed on the cash or accrual basis in accordance with the method of
accounting used in the computation of the entire net income of the licensee.
         (b)   1.   Employees within the city include all employees regularly
connected with a place of business maintained by the licensee in the city.
Wherever it appears that the licensee’s payroll was paid to employees attached
to places of business outside the city who performed services within the city,
the payroll factor is to be computed by deriving the percentage which the
licensee’s payroll paid in the city bears to his or her total payroll. In any
such case, where an employee performed services both within and without the
city, the amount treated as compensation for services performed within the city
shall be deemed to be:
               a.   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends
directly on the volume of business secured by that employee, such as a
salesperson on a commission basis, the amount received by that employee for the
business attributable to the employee’s efforts within the city;
               b.   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends on
other results achieved, the proportion of the total compensation which the
value of the employee’s services within the city bears to the value of all the
employee’s services; and
               c.   In the case of an employee compensated on a time basis, the
proportion of the total amount received by the employee which the working time
employed in the city bears to the total working time.
            2.   The accounting method used to compute net profits subject to
the license fee shall be the same as the method used to compute net income for
federal income tax purposes, excluding all taxes based on net income, license
fees imposed under this section and the net operating loss carry-forward or
carry-back used to reduce net income for the current year.
   (B)   Application process. An application for business privilege can be
obtained from the Occupational License/Net Profit Division. Every person
desiring to conduct business in the city shall fully comply with the following:
      (1)   A completed application shall be submitted to the Occupational
License/Net Profit Division with the required fee;
      (2)   The application shall be forwarded to the Fire Inspector, Code
Official and Zoning Office. Each vendor with a physical location in the city
must meet all requirements of the city zoning ordinance and Building Code and
are subject to inspection from the city’s Code Enforcement Division and the
City Fire Inspector. Business locations that fail to meet the zoning
requirements and fire regulations could be subject to fines and possible
closure until such zoning and safety issues are resolved;
      (3)   There shall be a fee of $10 for each additional business location.
All information regarding the new location shall be supplied to the
Occupational License/Net Profit Division and any required inspections shall be
performed prior to the opening of the additional location; and
      (4)   There shall be an additional fee of $50 for businesses that open
and conduct business prior to obtaining a business license. The business shall
still be subject to inspections by the Fire Inspector, Code Official and
License Administrator. Pursuant to guidelines contained in Ord. 122, 2006 as
may be amended citations may be issued to appear before the Code Enforcement
Board, which could result in fines, closure or any combination thereof.
   (C)   Business license fees. Every person conducting a business as defined
in this chapter shall obtain a license from the license fee division before
commencement of such business, the fee for which shall be $100 per year. The
license fee shall be pro-rated as follows for the first year of business:
 
January 1st $100
April 1st   $75
July 1st    $50
October 1st $25
 
      (1)   This fee will be credited in full to the account of the license
payer and applied against the annual net business profit fee.
      (2)   A late fee of $25 shall be applied to those businesses failing to
renew their license within 30 days of the expiration date.
      (3)   Every entity conducting business within the city must file with the
Occupational License/Net Profit Division a statement of estimated net profits
to be earned during the accounting year prior to issuance of the license. Upon
the filing, the entity shall pay one-fourth of any license fees estimated to be
due. Thereafter, at the end of each month succeeding each calendar quarter each
licensee shall pay to the city one-fourth of said estimated license fees due.
   (D)   Temporary licenses. Every person conducting business on a temporary
basis will be subject to a license fee in the amount of $10 per day for a
period not to exceed five days per event. Temporary license applications may be
obtained from the Occupational License/Net Profit Division.
      (1)   Temporary licenses shall be issued to businesses participating in
special city events, festivals and other activities as approved by the Board of
Commissioners. Vendors who propose to operate beyond the five day limit shall
be subject to the minimum annual fee as required in division (C) of this
section.
      (2)   Persons/businesses soliciting door to door on a temporary basis
shall be required to purchase a regular city license and shall be required to
notify the Ashland Police Department and the Occupational License/Net Profit
Division of the type of solicitation along with the name of each individual
participating in the door to door solicitation. Vendors desiring to acquire a
temporary license to sell or solicit business from temporary structures, carts,
tables, sheds, or vehicles on private property or city right-of-way or streets
are required to obtain approval prior to the commencement of business from the
Board of City Commissioners.
      (3)   Vendors participating in special events at the mall or other
business locations may be approved by the Occupational License/Net Profit
Division if obtained prior to the event.
      (4)   Food and lunch vendors, ice cream trucks, approved vehicles that
regularly sell food goods from their vehicles which have been duly licensed to
operate within the city and have State Health Department approval shall not be
considered temporary vendors and shall comply with the provisions in division
(C) of this section. Lemonade and refreshment stands operated by neighborhood
children are exempted from this section.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No license under this chapter shall be required of domestic workers
employed at private homes.
   (B)   A sale of used goods conducted or participated in by the resident of
the residential property on which the sale takes place shall not be considered
a business for purposes of this chapter unless those sales are conducted for
more than four consecutive days or for more than two times a year.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.06 RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF TAX; GENERAL.
   Every person whose earnings of net profits are subject to the license fee
imposed by this chapter shall file, by the federal income tax filing due date,
an annual city return with the Occupational License/Net Profit Division.
   (A)   Where the entire earnings for the year are paid by one and the same
employer and the license fee has in each instance been withheld or deducted by
the employer from the gross amount of compensation without adjustment for
expenses, it shall not be necessary for such employee to file a return for the
year unless required or requested to do so by the Finance Director.
   (B)   If the return is made for a fiscal year or for any period other than a
calendar year, the return shall be due the fifteenth day of the fourth month
following the close of the fiscal year.
   (C)   The person making the return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the city the amount of the fee shown to be due by the return.
   (D)   Where any portion of the license fee otherwise due shall have been
deducted at the source and shall have been paid to the city by the person
making the deduction, a credit equal to the amount so paid shall be deducted
from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if any, shall be due and
payable at the time of the filing of the return.
   (E)   If a licensee shall terminate any business or employment for which the
license fee has not withheld, during the calendar or fiscal year, the proper
return shall be filed and the tax paid on the last day of the fourth month
after the termination of the business or employment.
   (F)   If the due date of a return falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the return shall be filed on the next regularly scheduled work day. If
the envelope bearing the return is postmarked on or before the due date, late
filing penalties will not apply.
   (G)   An executed copy of the licensee’s federal income tax return and/or
Kentucky state tax return and any other pertinent information as required by
the Occupational License/Net Profit Division shall be filed with the annual
return.
   (H)   Requests for refunds will be held if the business is delinquent in the
payment of other fees or late in filing returns with the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.07 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FILING RETURNS.
   (A)   An extension of time for filing a license fee return may be granted if
the licensee notifies the Occupational License/Net Profit Division in writing
by the due date for filing the return. The period shall not exceed the time
period granted for filing an entity’s federal income tax return. A copy of the
federal extension request form may be used, provided the licensee’s business
license number and city business name appear on such request. In no event shall
an extension be granted to a business that is delinquent in any previous
filings or payment of any fees.
   (B)   An automatic extension of time for filing the net profit license fee
return does not extend the time of payment of the license fee. Payment of 90%
of the estimated license fees must accompany the request for an extension.
Merely sending a tentative or estimated payment is not acceptable.
   (C)   Penalty and interest shall be applied as provided in §
115.12. No penalty shall be assessed in those cases in which all filing and
payment requirements have in good faith been fulfilled and the final license
fee and interest is paid with the filing of the net profit.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.08 ENFORCING OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Finance Director is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. The Finance Director is hereby empowered to
prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules, regulations and forms relating
to any matter or thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to provisions for the
reexamination and correction of returns as to which an overpayment or
underpayment is claimed or found to have been made; and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Finance Director shall be binding upon the
licensee and the employers provided, however, that any application for refund
of overpayment shall be refunded if a claim for refund is made within two years
from the date on which such payment was made and paid, shall be made by the
taxpayer under oath on a form prescribed by the Director, and the information
contained therein or submitted therewith shall be verified by the taxpayer’s
employers. No refund shall be made to any licensee or person until the taxpayer
has complied with all provisions of the chapter and has furnished all required
information. Refunds may be withheld from an employee until the employer has
filed all required forms and provided all required information. Overpayments
will first be applied to previous occupational license fee delinquencies prior
to any other disposition.
   (B)   The Finance Director or any agent or employee designated in writing by
the Finance Director is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and
records of any employer or supposed employer or of any licensee or supposed
licensee in order to determine the accuracy of any return made, or if no return
was made, to ascertain the amount of license fee imposed by the terms of this
chapter. Each such employer or supposed employer or licensee or supposed
licensee is hereby directed and required to give to the Finance Director or the
Finance Director’s duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination and investigation as are hereby authorized.
The Finance Director or any agent or employee designated by the Finance
Director is hereby authorized to examine any person under oath concerning any
wages, salaries, commissions or other compensation or net profits which were or
should have been returned; and to this end the Finance Director may compel the
production of books, papers, records and the attendance of all persons, whether
as parties or witnesses, whom the Finance Director believes to have knowledge
of such wages, salaries, commissions or other compensation or net profits, to
the extent that any officer empowered to administer oaths in this state is
permitted to so order.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any legal restrictions or limitations to the contrary,
a tax district as defined in KRS 67.750(10) may share a refund application and
any related information that is submitted to it by an employee seeking a refund
of any amount of tax withheld and paid by his or her employer to the tax
district under KRS 67.750 to 67.795 with any other tax district that is
referenced in the refund application or related information.
(Prior Code, § 115.08) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.09 EXCLUSION OF LEVIES PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   It is not the intention of the city or of this chapter to impose and require
an occupational license fee prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 115.09) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.10 INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL; OFFENSE; FINE.
   Any information or materials filed with the Occupational License/Net Profit
Division pursuant to this chapter or received as a result of any returns,
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by this
chapter shall be and remain strictly confidential. Any person or agent
divulging such information to any unauthorized party shall be guilty of a Class
A misdemeanor and subject to fines and imprisonment as set out in KRS 67.790.
However, such persons may disclose to the State Commissioner of Revenue or his
or her duly authorized agent all such information and right to inspect any of
the books and records of the city if the State Commissioner of Revenue grants
to the city the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and
records of the State Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged
character of the information so furnished to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 115.10) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.11 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A penalty of 5% per month or fraction thereof (maximum of 25%/minimum
of $25) on any license fees remaining unpaid or for any late return made after
they become due shall be assessed.
   (B)   Interest at the rate of 12% per annum shall be added to any license
fee remaining unpaid after they become due unless judgment is obtained in which
12% after judgment shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 115.11) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.12 VIOLATION, FINES.
   No person shall fail, neglect or refuse to make any return, or part thereof,
including Form 1099 and W-2s, federal tax return, state tax return for net
profits, required by this chapter. No employer shall fail to withhold the
employee license fee and to pay over to the city the fees so withheld. No
person shall refuse to permit the Finance Director or any agent or employee
designated in writing by the Finance Director to examine the financial records,
books and papers. No person shall knowingly make any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return. No person shall fail, neglect or refuse to apply for an
occupational license fee reporting number or business license. No person shall
attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the full disclosure of the amount of
earnings or profits in order to avoid payment of the whole or any part of the
occupational license fee. A person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to be fined pursuant to the provisions of KRS
67.790 and/or be subject to citation before the City Code Enforcement Board.
(Prior Code, § 115.12) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
§ 115.13 REVENUE TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   All revenue derived under this chapter shall be deposited in the General
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 115.13) (Ord. 51, 2021, passed 4-23-2021)
CHAPTER 116: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Bond
   
116.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
116.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
116.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
116.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
116.07   Prohibited activities
   
116.08   Enforcement
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
(Prior Code, § 116.01)
§ 116.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the City Commission, in the penal sum of $1,000. This
bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this
chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with
this chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
(Prior Code, § 116.02)
§ 116.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates
of all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any
property on deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite
the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all
property purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when
the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the
interest charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official
duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The reports
shall be submitted electronically to L.E.A.D.S.online, Inc. via high speed
internet. The Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
(Prior Code, § 116.03) (Ord. 158-2005, passed 10-20-2005) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
116.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 116.04) (Ord. 115-2008, passed 11-20-2008)
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
116.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
116.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 116.05) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 116.06) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 116.07) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 116.08)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
116.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
(Prior Code, § 116.99)
CHAPTER 117: PRECIOUS METALS AND JEWELRY
Section
   
117.01   Register of all purchases
   
117.02   Application of regulations
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 REGISTER OF ALL PURCHASES.
   Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the purchase, within the city,
of coins, jewelry, precious and semi-precious stones, and objects made of
precious metals, shall keep a register of all such purchases. The register
shall show the date of all purchases and the names and addresses of all persons
from whom the property was purchased. Opposite the names and dates shall be
written a full description of all property purchased. The registry shall at all
times be open to the inspection of any officer of the city when in the
discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 117.01) (Ord. 112-1980, passed 12-4-1980) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to persons, firms or
corporations which engage in the purchase of coins, jewelry, precious and semi-
precious stones, and objects made of precious metals, as a business venture
rather than for personal use. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
purchases from a person, firm or corporation that is a vendor engaged in the
routine wholesale or retail sale of coins, jewelry, precious and semi-precious
stones, and objects made of precious metals.
(Prior Code, § 117.02) (Ord. 112-1980, passed 12-4-1980)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation that shall neglect, violate or refuse to
comply with any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both
a fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 117.99)
CHAPTER 118: SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Regulations deemed supplemental to general licensing regulations
   
118.03   License required; exemptions
   
118.04   License application
   
118.05   License fee
   
118.06   Conditions for issuance
   
118.07   License applies to only one place of business
   
118.08   Interval between sales required
   
118.09   Duties of licensee
Garage and Yard Sales
   
118.20   Definitions
   
118.21   License required; issuance
   
118.22   Information to be filed with city
   
118.23   Exemptions
Flea Markets
   
118.35   Application
   
118.36   Records required
   
118.37   License required; fees
   
118.38   Vendors excluded from business privilege license requirements
   
118.39   Activities not covered
 
   
118.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE AND OTHER ALTERED GOODS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged
or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
   GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of
goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not
limited to, the following sales: adjuster’s, adjustment, alteration,
assignee’s, bankrupt, benefit of administrator’s, benefit of creditors’,
benefit of trustees, building coming down, closing, creditor’s committee,
creditor’s, end, executor’s, final days forced out, forced out of business
insolvents’, last days, lease expires, liquidation, loss of lease, mortgage
sale, receiver’s trustee’s, and quitting business.
   GOODS. Includes any goods, wares, merchandise or other property capable of
being the object of a sale regulated pursuant to this subchapter.
   REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and
discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods
on hand, and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the
city or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961)
§ 118.02 REGULATIONS DEEMED SUPPLEMENTAL TO GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter are intended to augment and be in addition
to the provisions of Chapters
112,
113,
115,
116 and
120. Where this subchapter imposes a greater restriction upon persons,
premises, businesses or practices than is imposed by Chapters
112,
113,
115,
116 and
120, this subchapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961)
§ 118.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A license issued by the Director of Finance of the city shall be
obtained by any person before selling or offering to sell any goods at a sale
to be advertised or held out by any means to be one of the following kinds:
      (1)   Going-out-of-business sale;
      (2)   Removal of business sale; or
      (3)   Fire and other altered stock sale.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect the
following persons:
      (1)   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
      (3)   Duly-licensed auctioneers, selling at auction;
      (4)   Persons conducting a sale of the type regulated pursuant to this
subchapter on the effective date, unless the sale is continued for a period of
more than 30 days from and after the effective date, in which event, the
person, at the lapse of the 30-day period, shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter; or
      (5)   Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication, who
publishes in good faith, any advertisement, without knowledge of its false,
deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of
this subchapter have not been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A person desiring to conduct a sale regulated by this subchapter shall make
a written application to the Director of Finance setting forth and containing
the following information:
   (A)   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object
of the sale;
   (B)   The true name and address of the person from whom he or she purchased
the goods to be sold and the price therefor, and if not purchased, the manner
of acquisition;
   (C)   A description of the place where the sale is to be held;
   (D)   The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease and the
effective date of termination of the occupancy;
   (E)   The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted;
   (F)   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale,
including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby
and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
   (G)   The means to be employed in advertising the sale, together with the
proposed content of any advertisement; and
   (H)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at the sale
as disclosed by the applicant’s records. This inventory shall be attached to
and become part of the required application.
      (1)   All goods included in the inventory shall have been purchased by
the applicant for resale on bona fide orders without cancellation privileges,
and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
      (2)   The inventory shall not include goods ordered in contemplation of
conducting a sale regulated pursuant to this subchapter. Any unusual purchase,
or additions to the stock of goods of the business hereby affected within 30
days before the filing of an application pursuant to this subchapter shall be
deemed to be of this character.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961) Penalty, see
118.99
§ 118.05 LICENSE FEE.
   Any applicant for a license pursuant to this subchapter shall submit to the
Director of Finance with his or her application a license fee of $50. Any
applicant for a renewal license pursuant to this subchapter shall submit to the
license officer with his or her renewal application a renewal license fee of
$50.
(Prior Code, § 118.05) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961)
§ 118.06 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A license shall be issued as provided in this subchapter on the
following terms.
      (1)   Licensing period. The license shall authorize the sale described in
the application for a period of not more than 30 consecutive days, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof. The Director of
Finance shall renew a license for one period of time only, this period to be in
addition to the 30 days permitted in the original license, and not to exceed 30
consecutive days, Sundays and holidays excluded, when he or she finds the
following.
         (a)   The facts exist justifying the license renewal.
         (b)   The licensee has filed an application for renewal.
         (c)   The licensee has submitted with the application for renewal a
revised inventory showing the items listed on the original inventory remaining
unsold, and not listing any goods not included in the original application and
inventory. For the purposes of this division (A)(1), any application for a
license under the provisions of this subchapter covering any goods previously
inventoried as required in this subchapter, shall be deemed to be an
application for renewal, whether presented by the original applicant, or by any
other person.
      (2)   Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only the one type of
sale described in the application at the location named therein.
      (3)   Saleable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods
described in the inventory attached to the application.
      (4)   Surrender of general license. Upon being issued a license pursuant
to this subchapter for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall
surrender to the Director of Finance all other business licenses he or she may
hold at that time applicable to the location and goods covered by the
application for a license under this subchapter, except business privilege
license.
      (5)   Transferability. Any license provided for in this subchapter shall
not be assignable or transferable.
   (B)   Any person who has not been the owner of a business advertised or
described in the application for a license provided for in this subchapter for
a period of at least six months prior to the date of the proposed sale shall
not be granted a license. However, upon the death of a person doing business in
this city his or her heirs, devisees or legatees shall have the right to apply
at any time for a license pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.06) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961)
§ 118.07 LICENSE APPLIES TO ONLY ONE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   If a person applying for a license pursuant to this subchapter operates more
than one place of business, the license issued shall apply only to the one
store or branch specified in the application. No other store or branch shall
advertise or represent that it is cooperating with the licensed store, or in
any way participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch
conducting the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or
branch is cooperating with it or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
(Prior Code, § 118.07) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES REQUIRED.
   Any person who has held a sale, as regulated by this subchapter, at the
location stated in the application, within one year last past from the date of
the application shall not be granted a license.
(Prior Code, § 118.08) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961)
§ 118.09 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee pursuant to this subchapter shall do the following:
   (A)   Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever, during the period
of the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached
to the application for license;
   (B)   Advertise property. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or
misleading advertising;
   (C)   Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity
with any advertising or holding out incident thereto;
   (D)   Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a
duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application, and present the
duplicate to inspecting officials upon request; and
   (E)   Segregate noninventoried goods. Keep any other goods separate and
apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale,
and make this distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all
inventoried goods in and about the place of sale apprising the public of the
status of all such goods.
(Prior Code, § 118.09) (Ord. 10-1961, passed 2-28-1961) Penalty, see §
118.99
GARAGE AND YARD SALES
§ 118.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CASUAL SALE. Includes, but is not limited to all sales entitled garage sale,
yard sale, attic sale, rummage sale, porch sale, moving sale or any similar
occasional casual sale of tangible personal property which is advertised by any
means or displayed in any manner whereby the public at large is or can be made
aware of the sale, except those sales provided for in §
118.23.
   GOODS. Generally includes any previously used goods, such as old clothes,
housewares and furniture normally used in a residence, or other similar
personal property capable of being the object of a sale regulated by this
subchapter.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations and
corporations.
(Prior Code, § 118.20) (Ord. 68-1995, passed 6-5-1995)
§ 118.21 LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a casual sale in the
city, without first filing the information specified and obtaining from the
City Cashier a license to do so, to be known as a CASUAL SALE LICENSE.
   (B)   The license shall be issued to any one person or for any one location
only two times within a 12-month period. No license shall be issued for more
than four consecutive calendar days for each sale. Each license issued under
this subchapter must be prominently displayed on the premises upon which the
sale is conducted, throughout the entire period of the licensed sale.
(Prior Code, § 118.21) (Ord. 68-1995, passed 6-5-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.22 INFORMATION TO BE FILED WITH CITY.
   The information required to be filed with the City Cashier pursuant to this
subchapter, shall be as follows:
   (A)   The name of the person, firm, group, corporation, association, or
organization conducting the sale;
   (B)   The name of the owner(s) of the property on which the sale is to be
conducted, and the consent of the owner if the applicant is other than the
owner;
   (C)   The location at which the sale is to be conducted;
   (D)   The number of days the sale is to be conducted;
   (E)   The date and nature of any past sale conducted;
   (F)   The relationship or connection the applicant may have had with any
other person, firm, group, or organization, association, or corporation
conducting any prior sale, and the date or dates of those sales;
   (G)   Whether or not the applicant has been issued any other vendors license
by any local, state or federal agency; and
   (H)   A sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing the application
for a license that the information therein given is full and true and known to
him or her to be so.
(Prior Code, § 118.22) (Ord. 68-1995, passed 6-5-1995) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect the
following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials; and
      (3)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which is specifically named or described in an advertisement
and which separate items do not exceed five in number.
   (B)   Upon tendering to the City Cashier the information required by §
118.22, and a determination by the City Cashier that the purpose of the casual
sale is to raise funds for an organization of a charitable or civic nature, the
City Cashier may suspend the permit and fees requirements contained in §
118.21 and may exempt the applicant from the frequency limitations contained in
§
118.21 and set the number of consecutive calendar days the casual sale shall be
authorized.
(Prior Code, § 118.23) (Ord. 68-1995, passed 6-5-1995)
FLEA MARKETS
§ 118.35 APPLICATION.
   Any individual, corporation, partnership or other entity which operates a
business, in what is commonly referred to as a flea market, in which table or
area space is rented or leased for the purpose of selling wares, goods or items
of any nature to the general public shall be covered by the provisions of this
subchapter. This subchapter is not intended to affect church or bazaar type
sales conducted by religious or non-profit organizations.
(Prior Code, § 118.35) (Ord. 93-1989, passed 9-5-1989; Ord. 30-1992, passed 4-
7-1992)
§ 118.36 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The operator, owner or lessor of the flea market (hereafter operator) shall
maintain accurate records relating to the operation of the flea market in the
method and on forms established by the License Fee Administrator of the city
regarding vendors operating on space within the flea market. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, license receipts (as hereafter provided),
space rented, dates and times of operation, and sufficient identifying
information on the individual vendors and their suppliers. This information
shall be available to the License Fee Administrator at her request on the
premises of the flea market, and the operator shall be required to file a
monthly report with the License Fee Administrator on forms provided by the
city. The License Fee Administrator shall provide the operator with license
receipts (in triplicate) for issuance to the vendors as hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 118.36) (Ord. 30-1992, passed 4-7-1992)
§ 118.37 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   The individual vendor shall pay to the operator either $1 per day, $3
per week or $50 annually, at the vendor’s option, for the privilege of
operating the vendor’s business for any day during a calendar week the vendor
is in operation. The weekly payment made by the vendor shall be remitted by the
operator on a monthly basis to the city. The vendor shall provide to the city
or the operator whatever information is required by the city. Additionally, the
operator will provide the vendor with a license receipt which shall be posted
on a current basis at the vendor’s space at all times the vendor is in
operation in the city.
   (B)   In order to begin operation of the vendor’s business, a license
receipt must first be obtained from the operator.
   (C)   The operator shall be required to file with the city a yearly return
relating to vendors operating at a flea market. This return shall be in form
required by the city and shall be filed contemporaneously with the operator’s
business privilege return. It is understood nothing contained in this
subchapter exempts the operator from the provisions of
Chapter 115 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 118.37) (Ord. 30-1992, passed 4-7-1992)
§ 118.38 VENDORS EXCLUDED FROM BUSINESS PRIVILEGE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Vendors in a flea market shall be excluded from the provisions of
Chapter 115 of this code of ordinances. The license fees contained in this
subchapter shall be the fee required of a vendor for the privilege of operating
a business within the city. The basis for this exclusion from the business
privilege license requirement is that a flea market vendor is by nature
transient and temporary, and primarily deals in used wares and goods.
(Prior Code, § 118.38) (Ord. 30-1992, passed 4-7-1992)
§ 118.39 ACTIVITIES NOT COVERED.
   It is understood that the provisions of this subchapter are not intended to
cover other activities which may be conducted in connection with the operation
of or on the premises of the flea market including, but not limited to,
auctions, truckload sales, etc. All of these activities shall continue to be
covered by the provisions of
Chapter 115 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 118.39) (Ord. 30-1992, passed 4-7-1992)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, association or corporation conducting any such sale
pursuant to §§
118.21 and
118.22 without being properly licensed therefor or who shall violate any of the
other terms and regulations of these sections, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine or penalty not to exceed $500.
Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. It shall
be the responsibility of the Code Enforcement Division to enforce the licensing
requirements herein.
   (B)   Any person(s), firm(s) or corporation(s) violating the terms of §§
118.35 through
118.39 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum
not less than $25 nor more than $100 in the discretion of the court or jury
trying the case. Each day in operation in violation constitutes a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any other provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned not more than 12 months, or both. Every day a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 118.99) (Ord. 30-1992, passed 4-7-1992; Ord. 68-1995, passed 6-
5-1995)
CHAPTER 119: OTHER BUSINESSES
Section
Insurance Companies
   
119.01   License fee imposed; effective date
   
119.02   License fee for companies which issue life insurance policies
   
119.03   License fee for companies which issue policies other than life
insurance
   
119.04   Due date; interest charged on late payments
   
119.05   Breakdown of collections to be furnished to city
Garbage, Refuse and Solid Waste Collection Businesses
   
119.20   Requirements
Electrical Contractors
   
119.35   Purpose
   
119.36   Compliance required; state code adopted by reference
   
119.37   Electrical contractor defined
   
119.38   Electrical contractor’s license required
   
119.39   Obtaining and reviewing license
   
119.40   Insurance required of contractors
   
119.41   Permit for installation, alteration required
   
119.42   Authority to turn off current or disconnect wires in emergencies
   
119.43   Exceptions to testing and licensing requirements
   
119.44   Appeals Board of Electricians
   
119.45   Liability for damage caused
Food Services
   
119.60   Definitions
   
119.61   Required hepatitis A vaccination
 
   
119.99   Penalty
INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 119.01 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   There is imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the privilege
of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the
city, effective July 1, 1999 and thereafter on a calendar year basis.
(Prior Code, § 120.25) (Ord. 21-1999, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 119.02 LICENSE FEE FOR COMPANIES WHICH ISSUE LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 10% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reasons of the issuance of these policies.
(Prior Code, § 120.26) (Ord. 21-1999, passed 3-18-1999) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.03 LICENSE FEE FOR COMPANIES WHICH ISSUE POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city, on those classes of business which such company is authorized to
transact, less all premiums returned to policy holders.
   (B)   However, any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall
not include premiums received for insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the
provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act and shall not include premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228.
(Prior Code, § 120.27) (Ord. 21-1999, passed 3-18-1999) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST CHARGED ON LATE PAYMENTS.
   All license fees imposed by this subchapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on
or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined
in KRS 131.010(6).
(Prior Code, § 120.28) (Ord. 21-1999, passed 3-18-1999) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.05 BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS TO BE FURNISHED TO CITY.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fee imposed by this
subchapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health;
   (F)   Professional malpractice;
   (G)   Bonds;
   (H)   Life; and
   (I)   All others.
(Prior Code, § 120.29) (Ord. 21-1999, passed 3-18-1999) Penalty, see §
119.99
GARBAGE, REFUSE AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION BUSINESSES
§ 119.20 REQUIREMENTS.
   For provisions concerning the business of collecting garbage, refuse, and
solid waste, see §§
93.01 and
93.02 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 120.40)
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
§ 119.35 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed to
secure the beneficial interests and purposes of public safety, health and
welfare, through structural strength and stability, and safety of life and
property from fire hazards incidental to installation, alteration, repair and/
or removal of the electrical wiring or equipment.
(Prior Code, § 120.65) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.36 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; STATE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All electrical wiring in installation of electrical apparatus and appliances
for furnishing light, heat or power in the city shall comply in all respects
with the rules and regulations of the National Electrical Code which is
incorporated into the State Standards of Safety and which is hereby adopted as
the minimum standard in the city.
(Prior Code, § 120.66) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.37 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR means any person, other than as stated in §
119.43, who holds a valid contractor’s license issued by the city, and who
proceeds with or employs others for the construction, alteration, repairs or
additions to any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat,
light or power within the city. The provisions in this subchapter shall in no
manner be construed to prevent an individual who is the owner and occupant of
an existing single-family residence to observe the privileges of this
subchapter, relating to electrical wiring, from installing, altering or
repairing, by and for himself or herself electrical wiring on his or her
single-family dwelling, as long as required permits are obtained and the work
passes a rough-in and final inspection.
(Prior Code, § 120.67) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.38 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of installing,
altering or repairing, within the city, any electrical wiring, devices or
equipment unless such individual is the holder of an electrical contractor’s
license.
(Prior Code, § 120.68) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.39 OBTAINING AND REVIEWING LICENSE.
   (A)   Those persons desiring to become electrical contractors in the city
must first pass the state approved test for electrical contractor administered
by the National Assessment Institute.
   (B)   Satisfactory completion of the electrical contractor examination
requirement contained in KRS 227.490, upon application and payment of the
requisite fees, is required to obtain an electrical contractor certificate
issued by the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction.
   (C)   Any person who holds a valid electrical contractor license issued by
the city prior to the effective date of Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993, may,
within 30 days of the expiration of the license, renew the license without
taking an examination.
   (D)   Electrical contractors whose license has expired for over one year
shall be required to be re-examined before renewing their license.
(Prior Code, § 120.69) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.40 INSURANCE REQUIRED OF CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   All electrical contractors shall maintain premises and products and
completed operation liability insurance coverage in the amount of not less than
$250,000 and shall show and place on file with the Division of Code Enforcement
proof of same prior to being issued a contractor’s license at the beginning of
each year.
   (B)   The required liability insurance shall be kept current during the
licensing period and shall include coverage for those employed by the
contractor.
   (C)   Failure to comply with division (A) of this section shall result in
the license being void.
   (D)   Proof of license and insurance shall be on the person of an electrical
contractor.
   (E)   The city requests that the insurer notify the Division of Code
Enforcement 30 days in advance of any cancellation of the policy.
(Prior Code, § 120.70) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.41 PERMIT FOR INSTALLATION, ALTERATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Electrical wiring or equipment shall not be installed nor shall any
alteration be made in any existing installation without first obtaining a
permit from the Division of Code Enforcement, the fee for which shall be $10.
The application and issuance of said permit is governed by all applicable
sections of the Kentucky Building Code, including, but not limited to, Article
27, and by the rules and regulations established by the Division of Code
Enforcement.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for the execution and uses of the
classes of work specified in §§ 2704.2.1 through 2704.2.4 of the Kentucky
Building Code.
   (C)   Electrical permit forms shall be provided by the Division of Code
Enforcement.
   (D)   The Division of Code Enforcement shall issue permits, approve licenses
in accordance with this subchapter, maintain records, promulgate rules and
regulations, and conduct on-site inspections to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
   (E)   All electrical wiring, apparatus and appliances hereafter installed in
the city shall be inspected by a state certified electrical inspector, and it
shall be unlawful to use any new electrical installation in any building,
structure or premises before same has been inspected and approved as required
by §§ 2700.5 and 2704.1 of the Kentucky Building Code.
   (F)   The electrical inspector shall check for permits and notify the
Division of Code Enforcement of permit violations. Inspection stickers and
certificates of compliance shall be provided at the job site by the inspector.
   (G)   All inspection fees shall be paid to the Inspector by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 120.71) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.42 AUTHORITY TO TURN OFF CURRENT OR DISCONNECT WIRES IN EMERGENCIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department or his or her designated representatives
shall have the authority to cause the turning off of all electrical currents
and to cut or disconnect, in cases of emergency, any wires where such
electrical currents are dangerous to life and property or where such wires may
interfere with the work or progress of the Fire Department in fighting fires.
(Prior Code, § 120.72) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.43 EXCEPTIONS TO TESTING AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Public utility companies and corporations engaged in the manufacture
or distribution of electrical energy for commercial purposes, or their
employees, shall not be required to obtain licenses for the manufacture,
transmission, distribution and metering of electrical energy, and all repairs
and maintenance connected therewith, telephone, telegraph and other related
companies shall not be required to obtain licenses to engage in these
activities. Full-time employees of a manufacturing facility, with 10,000 or
more square feet at the site, shall not be required to obtain licenses to
engage in electrical maintenance. Individuals engaged in the installation and/
or repair of specialized equipment may connect to the on-site disconnect
without first obtaining a license. Specialized equipment shall include water
heaters, air conditioners, furnaces, elevators, electrical appliances and
related equipment. This is not to be construed as permitting these individuals
to make any electrical connections or do any electrical wiring other than what
is necessary to connect to the on-site disconnect or to repair the equipment
itself.
   (B)   Any electrical contractor who has been lawfully engaged in the active
practice of his or her profession for five of the six years next preceding his
or her application in a jurisdiction outside the city, and can satisfactorily
document this experience, may be issued a license to practice in the city
without further examination provided that the qualifications, which must
include passing an examination required to be licensed in such other
jurisdiction, are equal to or higher than those of the National Assessment
Institute. An examination may still be required, however, in such instances
where there is reasonable doubt as to the nature or quality of the applicant’s
work or the standards of said other jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 120.73) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.44 APPEALS BOARD OF ELECTRICIANS.
   There is hereby created a Board to be known as the Appeals Board of
Electricians. The Board shall be composed of three members appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the Board of City Commissioners, each of whom shall be
knowledgeable in the electrical field. The Appeals Board shall consist of one
city Fire Department official, one electrical contractor, and one electrical
engineer or architect. Terms shall be for four years provided that the initial
term of one member shall be two years to provide for staggered terms. Vacancies
shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, and the
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired term. Any member may be
appointment for additional terms.
(Prior Code, § 120.74) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
§ 119.45 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE CAUSED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from loss or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical wiring, devices or equipment for damage to person or
property caused by any defect therein; nor shall the Division of Code
Enforcement be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections
authorized herein or permits of approval issued as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 120.75) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993)
FOOD SERVICES
§ 119.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE. Includes an business, including temporary and mobile food
operations, or any other entity engaged in the handling of raw meat and raw
vegetables, the preparation of and the service for consumption of food by the
public, e.g., restaurants, grocery meat and produce departments, school and
hospital cafeterias, caterers, banquet facilities, nursing home kitchens and
other similar businesses/enterprises.
(Prior Code, § 120.85) (Ord. 95-2018, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 119.61 REQUIRED HEPATITIS A VACCINATION.
   (A)   The Board of City Commissioners requires that those workers engaged in
food service responsibilities in businesses and other entities located within
the city shall be required to have a hepatitis A vaccination, including
appropriate boosters (which should be administered six months after the first
dose), in order to perform such duties. Newly hired or engaged food service
workers must receive the first hepatitis A vaccine at least two weeks prior to
their handling of food for public consumption. This requirement shall go into
effect on July 1, 2018 and each business/entity shall have four weeks from that
date to complete the inoculations of such workers recognizing that it takes a
minimum of two weeks for an individual to begin building immunity.
   (B)   A food service worker who has been previously inoculated with
appropriate boosters with proof of such inoculation shall not be required to
undergo additional inoculation upon providing satisfactory proof of same.
   (C)   All businesses and other entities shall be required to maintain
records of the inoculation of their affected workers during the course of such
workers’ engagement in providing food services. Such proof of inoculation shall
be made available to city inspectors or County Public Health inspectors upon
request.
   (D)   Failure to maintain such records or provide such proof when requested
as provided by this subchapter as well as noncompliance with any other
provision of this subchapter, shall be considered as violations of the
subchapter.
   (E)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to women who are
pregnant, no to those individuals who in the written opinion of his or her duly
licensed attending physician that such inoculation would be injurious to the
person’s health, nor to those persons who are opposed to vaccination on
religious grounds and sign a written sworn statement to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 120.86) (Ord. 95-2018, passed 6-25-2018) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, for which
another penalty is not provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 12 months, or both. Each
day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of §§
119.35 through
119.45 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $10
nor more than $100, or imprisoned not more than 50 days, or both. Each day any
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, business or entity who violates any of the provisions of
§§
119.60 and
119.61 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than any
stated amount provided in KRS 534.040(2)(c). Each day of violation after
notification shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 120.99) (Ord. 97-1993, passed 9-2-1993; Ord. 95-2018, passed 6-
25-2018; Ord. 112, 2019, passed 8-8-2019)
CHAPTER 120: SOLICITATION
Section
Soliciting Door-to-Door
   
120.01   Registration; certain information required; temporary solicitation
   
120.02   City not liable
Soliciting Other than by Door-to-Door
   
120.15   Definitions
   
120.16   Prohibitions
   
120.17   Soliciting in an aggressive manner
   
120.18   False or misleading representations
 
   
120.99   Penalty
SOLICITING DOOR-TO-DOOR
§ 120.01 REGISTRATION; CERTAIN INFORMATION REQUIRED; TEMPORARY SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Any person, group, organization, business or corporation, profit or
non-profit, that intends to engage in door-to-door within the city shall be
required to register with the designated party at the Police Department on
forms created for that purpose by the designee of the City Manager providing
identifying information, including times and dates of proposed activity,
parties that will be participating, locations of the activity, purpose of the
solicitation and other information reasonably required to regulate the
activity.
   (B)   Any person, organization, group, business, or corporation, profit or
non-profit, intending to engage in solicitation on a temporary basis shall be
required to purchase a city business license notifying the Occupational
License/Net Profit Division of the Finance Department of the type of
solicitation along with the name of each individual participating in the door
to door solicitation. Any such solicitation shall be conducted only during
daylight hours, but no later than 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 121.01) (Ord. 136-1983, passed 10-6-1983; Ord. 78-2010, passed
8-5-2010) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.02 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   The applicant shall execute a release and shall hold the city harmless from
any and all damages, injuries, and claims as a result of any solicitation
activities.
(Prior Code, § 121.02) (Ord. 136-1983, passed 10-6-1983; Ord. 78-2010, passed
8-5-2010)
SOLICITING OTHER THAN BY DOOR-TO-DOOR
§ 120.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A publicly owned building and premises appurtenant thereto,
any public park, sidewalk, median or other right-of-way open to the general
public and includes alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks,
plazas, skywalks and streets.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION.
      (1)   To make any request in person while in a public place, for an
immediate grant of money, goods or any other form of gratuity from another
person(s) when the person making the request is not known to the person(s) who
are the subject of the request.
      (2)   However, the terms SOLICIT and SOLICITATION shall not mean the act
of passively standing or sitting with a sign or other indicator that a donation
of money, goods or any other form of gratuity is being sought without any vocal
request other than a response to an inquiry by another person.
(Prior Code, § 121.15) (Ord. 113-2015, passed 12-10-2015; Ord. 114-2016, passed
10-13-2016)
§ 120.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to solicit in the following places or under
the following conditions:
   (A)   In any public transportation vehicle;
   (B)   Within 20 feet of an automatic teller machine or public entrance to a
business;
   (C)   From any operator or occupant of a motor vehicle or from any person
entering or exiting a motor vehicle;
   (D)   On private property without permission from the owner;
   (E)   From any person engaged in the act of placing money in a parking meter
or from any person engaged in the act of locating money on his or her person or
within his or her personal belongings for any activity including a purchase or
donation;
   (F)   Within any private parking garages or private parking lots;
   (G)   At any bus stop;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of any crosswalk;
   (I)   While standing in line waiting to be admitted to a commercial
establishment;
   (J)   Within any outdoor dining area; or
   (K)   Within any median or in a street.
(Prior Code, § 121.16) (Ord. 113-2015, passed 12-10-2015; Ord. 114-2016, passed
10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.17 SOLICITING IN AN AGGRESSIVE MANNER.
   It is unlawful for any person to solicit in an aggressive manner. AGGRESSIVE
MANNER is defined as:
   (A)   Soliciting in a manner that impedes access to or from, or use of a
building, vehicle or establishment;
   (B)   Soliciting in a manner that would alarm, intimidate, threaten, menace,
harass, or coerce a reasonable person;
   (C)   By following behind, ahead or alongside, blocking the path of, or
continuing to solicit a person who walks or drives away from the person
soliciting or who gives notice or demonstrates verbally or physically that such
solicitation is offensive, unwelcome or that the solicitation should cease;
   (D)   By using profane or abusive language or gestures either during the
solicitation or following a refusal, or making any statement, gesture or other
communication that would cause a reasonable person to be fearful or would be
perceived as a threat; or
   (E)   By touching the solicited person without a statement, gesture or other
communication that the person being solicited consents to the touching.
(Prior Code, § 121.17) (Ord. 113-2015, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.18 FALSE OR MISLEADING REPRESENTATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly make a false or misleading
representation in the course of soliciting a donation. False or misleading
representations include, but are not limited to the following:
   (A)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a specific need, when the
person soliciting already has sufficient funds to meet that need and does not
disclose that fact;
   (B)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a need that does not
exist;
   (C)   Stating that the person soliciting is from out of town and stranded,
or that he or she is homeless when that representation is not true;
   (D)   Stating or representing that the person soliciting is a member of a
military service when the person soliciting is neither a present nor a former
member of a military service; and
   (E)   Stating or representing that the person soliciting suffers from a
mental or physical disability or deformity when the person soliciting does not
suffer the disability or deformity indicated.
(Prior Code, § 121.18) (Ord. 113-2015, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by
fine not to exceed the amount permitted under KRS 534.040 for violations per
solicitor and each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of §
120.16 shall be punishable consistent with KRS 534.040(2)(c). A violation of §§
120.17 or
120.18 shall be punishable consistent with KRS 534.040(2)(a).
(Prior Code, § 121.99) (Ord. 78-2010, passed 8-5-2010; Ord. 113-2015, passed
12-10-2015)
CHAPTER 121: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
121.01   Cable franchising authority designated
   
121.02   Proprietary information
   
121.03   Hearings
   
121.04   Enforcement authority
§ 121.01 CABLE FRANCHISING AUTHORITY DESIGNATED.
   The Board of City Commissioners as the governing body is the cable
television franchising authority of the city and shall adopt and comply with
the Federal Communications Commission rules and regulations regarding cable
franchises operated within the city.
(Prior Code, § 122.01) (Ord. 22-1994, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 121.02 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   The Ashland Board of City Commissioners shall protect proprietary
information of franchisees consistent with 47 C.F.R. part 0.459, and applicable
Freedom of Information Acts.
(Prior Code, § 122.02) (Ord. 22-1994, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 121.03 HEARINGS.
   The Board of City Commissioners shall allow reasonable opportunity to hear
the views of all interested parties in oral or written form.
(Prior Code, § 122.03) (Ord. 22-1994, passed 2-3-1994)
§ 121.04 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The ABC/License Fee Administrator shall also function as the Cable
Television Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 122.04) (Ord. 22-1994, passed 2-3-1994)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Begging prohibited
   
130.02   Fortunetelling prohibited
   
130.03   Swimming near waterworks’ intake suction line
Weapons
   
130.15   Discharge in city prohibited; exceptions
   
130.16   Toy guns, air guns, BB guns and the like
   
130.17   Carrying or possession of specific items in Ashland City Building
   
130.18   Carrying concealed deadly weapons
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in aggressive begging or solicitation in
public places that involves harassing, intimidating, or physically impeding
others. Charitable solicitations by registered organizations are exempt.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FORTUNETELLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in fortunetelling, palmistry, or phrenology
for profit through fraudulent misrepresentation or deception, as defined by KRS
517.030.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 13-1939, passed 2-7-1939) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 SWIMMING NEAR WATERWORKS’ INTAKE SUCTION LINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe or swim in the Ohio River
within the limit of a radius of 200 feet of the city waterworks’ high water
intake suction line located in the Ohio River at 40th Street, in the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS
§ 130.15 DISCHARGE IN CITY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful and permissible for the following persons under the
following conditions to discharge firearms within the corporate limits of the
city:
      (1)   Peace officers, properly supervised, in practice on an established
practice range;
      (2)   The National Guard, in practice, at the armory or on an established
practice range, properly supervised;
      (3)   Any organized gun club or group properly supervised, engaged in
skeet or trap shooting at a place established for that purpose; and
      (4)   The City of Ashland certified animal control officer in the course
of required duties.
   (B)   All such activities as described and designated above shall be carried
on at a place and in such a manner so as not to constitute a menace to the
public safety or tranquility.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and punishable
pursuant to KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) (Ord. 8-1967, passed 3-13-1967; Ord. 100, passed 7-21-
1994; Ord. 81, 2020, passed 6-18-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 TOY GUNS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall fire or discharge an air rifle, BB gun or other
instrument capable of issuing a projectable, whether by air, gas, spray or
other means, while on any public street, public sidewalk, or in any public
place, nor shall any person fire or discharge such rifle, gun or other
instrument described herein into or across any public street, public sidewalk
or public place. It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit a minor to violate this section.
   (B)   It shall be lawful and permissible to fire or discharge within the
corporate limits of the city only on private property, with the permission of
the property owner, any air rifle, BB gun or other toy gun.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be lawful and permissible for the following persons
under the following conditions to discharge any type of toy guns within the
corporate limits of the city:
         (a)   Peace officers, properly supervised, in practice on an
established practice range;
         (b)   The National Guard, in practice, at the armory or on an
established practice range, properly supervised;
         (c)   Any organized gun club or group properly supervised, engaged in
skeet or trap shooting at a place established for that purpose;
         (d)   Any organized club or group properly supervised upon approval by
the Ashland Board of City Commissioners may discharge between the hours of 12:
00 noon and 10:00 p.m. any smoothbore BB gun with metallic sights in which the
propelling force is developed through the use of a compressed spring, gas or
compressed air, at a fully enclosed shooting range, provided that supervision
is available for each participant by a certified gun instructor. No BB guns
that have been altered from factory manufacture are permitted. The range shall
be fully enclose and not permit discharge of BBs or pellets outside of its
perimeter. Sight and hearing protection must be provided for participants. Any
organization seeking such approval must provide liability insurance with the
city named as an insured in the sum of not less than $1,000,000 for the dates
of the application. The organization shall also sign an indemnity agreement
with the city holding the city and its employees harmless from any injury that
might arise from the use of the shooting range; and
         (e)   The city’s certified Animal Control Officer in the course of
required duties.
      (2)   All such activities as described and designated above shall be
carried on at a place and in such a manner so as not to constitute a menace to
the public safety or tranquility.
   (D)   It shall be permissible to discharge any spring controlled device with
a foam based projectable in public places provided no intent to injure or
damage property is involved.
   (E)   It shall be impermissible to paint, color or otherwise modify a
commercially available toy gun to make it appear as a real gun, or use a
painted, colored or otherwise modified commercially manufactured toy gun that
appears as a real gun.
   (F)   Violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and punishable
pursuant to KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) (Ord. 107-2015, passed 11-12-2015; Ord. 80, 2020, passed
6-18-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 CARRYING OR POSSESSION OF SPECIFIC ITEMS IN ASHLAND CITY BUILDING.
   (A)   No person, including any employee of the city, except sworn officers
of the Ashland Police Department or other law enforcement officers, shall have
in his or her possession or on his or her person within the confines of the
Ashland City Building located at 1700 Greenup Avenue and/or the Ashland Police
Station located at 201 17th Street, Ashland, Kentucky, any of the following:
      (1)   Concealed deadly weapon;
      (2)   Any knife, except an ordinary pocketknife with a blade less than
two inches in length that folds into the handle, doesn’t open by pressing a
button and doesn’t lock into place, or other knife routinely used in the
performance of city duties;
      (3)   Billy, nightstick or club;
      (4)   Blackjack or slapjack;
      (5)   Nunchaku karate sticks;
      (6)   Shuriken or death star;
      (7)   Artificial knuckles made from metal, plastic or other similar hard
material;
      (8)   Sharp objects such as scissors, screwdrivers, ice picks for
example;
      (9)   Flammable liquids or gasses; or
      (10)   Any other item that the city’s Police Department determines could
be utilized as a weapon.
   (B)   As a condition of entry to the aforereferenced buildings, all persons
entering are required to consent to passing through a security checkpoint for
prohibited items including the use of a security wand or pat-down when metal is
indicated or for those medically unable to pass through a metal detector.
   (C)   Violation of this section may result in denial of entry to the
building or portion of the building, or an order to leave the building or
portion of the building, or, if an employee of the city, disciplinary measures
up to and including dismissal from employment, unless the City Manager granted
prior consent to the city employee to possess such item on city property.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) (Ord. 126, 2019, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 130.18 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person, including employees of the city shall carry a concealed
deadly weapon into or on any building or portion of a building owned leased or
controlled by the city, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Exemptions mandated by state law.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to buildings or portions of buildings
owned, leased or controlled by the city which are used for public housing by
private persons, firing ranges and private dwellings.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to sworn officers of the Police
Department and other law enforcement officers authorized to carry concealed
deadly weapons pursuant to KRS 527.020.
   (C)   The Director of Public Services shall post signs at the entrances of
all city owned, leased or controlled buildings or portion of buildings which
shall read as follows:
CARRYING OF CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS ON THESE PREMISES IS PROHIBITED BY ORD.
88, 1996 OF THE CITY OF ASHLAND.
   (D)   Violation of this section may result in denial of entry to the
building or portion of the building, or an order to leave the building or
portion of the building, or, if an employee of the city, disciplinary measures
up to and including dismissal from employment.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as permitting the carrying
of a concealed deadly weapon in violation of KRS 527.020.
(Prior Code, § 130.18) (Ord. 88-1996, passed 8-15-1996)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Trespassing, burning trash on flood wall
   
131.02   Regulations for use of shopping carts
§ 131.01 TRESPASSING, BURNING TRASH ON FLOOD WALL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon the Ashland flood wall
or any portion of the permanent right-of-way thereof, to burn trash within 25
feet of such wall, to post bills upon such wall or such right-of-way, to erect
any building or fence on such right-of-way or to deposit any material, rubbish
or equipment thereon.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 19-1950, passed - -1950) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF SHOPPING CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CART. Any rolling or non-rolling basket or container commonly used in so-
called supermarkets or self-service stores.
      STORE. Includes any individual store, chain-store and/or supermarket.
   (B)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or use without
authority any cart from the premises of any store. Premises includes adjacent,
paved parking area.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or suffer to be
abandoned any cart, from any store or supermarket, on any street, highway,
alley, boulevard or public place within the city.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide carts for patrons’
use on the store premises, unless such carts bear permanent markings denoting
the owner.
   (C)   Abandoned carts. Whenever any cart is found abandoned on any street,
highway, boulevard, alley or other place open to the public, the owner of such
cart shall be notified of its location. If the cart is not retrieved by the
owner within two hours of notification, the Police Department shall impound the
property and shall again notify the owner of the impoundment. The Department of
Public Services shall be responsible for picking up impounded carts and
transporting them for storage in the Police Department Property Room. After the
second notification, the owner of the cart shall have a period of 24 hours in
which he or she may reclaim the cart by paying a pickup and storage fee of $5
at the Police Department, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.,
excluding weekends and holidays when there is not a property officer on duty.
Failure to reclaim the carts as provided after the second notification shall be
unlawful and shall be a violation of this section. The notices provided for
herein shall only be given to the person in charge of the store which owns the
cart.
   (D)   Failure to claim. If any owner shall fail to claim the carts or if the
cart owner is not identified or properly marked, the city may dispose of same
within 30 days after impoundment.
   (E)   Post ordinance. Any store using shopping carts as defined in this
section shall post a copy of Ord. 64-1988 upon the premises in a place where
the same can be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. 64-1988, passed 7-19-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GAS AND OIL WELLS
      
151.   BUILDINGS
      
152.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
      
156.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
157.   ZONING CODE
      
158.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
159.   EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
CHAPTER 150: GAS AND OIL WELLS
Section
   
150.01   Drilling permit required; fee and bond
   
150.02   Protection of fresh water supply
   
150.03   Report of completion of drilling; inspection
Statutory reference:
   Oil, gas, and salt water wells, see KRS Chapter 353
§ 150.01 DRILLING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE AND BOND.
   (A)   Each person desiring to drill or explore for gas or oil at any point
within the city shall apply to the Director of Public Services for a permit,
submitting with the application for the permit a map showing the exact location
of the well proposed to be drilled and also the highways to be traversed in
bringing in the boilers, drills and other equipment necessary to drill the
well. After the Director of Public Services is satisfied with the location of
the well in question and that it will not unduly interfere with the safety of
the persons and property, he or she shall issue a permit on payment of the sum
of $25 for each well drilled and on the giving a bond, with corporate surety,
in the amount of $10,000 conditioned as follows: that the city shall be
indemnified from all damages caused by the applicant in the moving of boilers,
rigs or other equipment used in the drilling of the well over the streets of
the city and further conditioned to pay all damages that may be occasioned to
any person or property by reason of the drilling of the well or by the shooting
of the well.
   (B)   The $25 collected for each permit shall be paid into the city treasury
and shall be used for general purposes.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 PROTECTION OF FRESH WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill a well in the city for
oil, gas or other purposes unless provision is made to protect the ground
supply of fresh water above a datum plane located 240 feet above sea level. All
wells drilled below the datum plane of 240 feet above sea level shall be cased
off so that no salt water can enter the strata containing fresh water. This
protection shall be a continued obligation on the part of the owner of the land
on which a well is drilled or the lessee of the land, and shall continue during
the operation of the well.
   (B)   In the event the well is abandoned, it shall be plugged according to
provisions of state law and the plugs shall be installed below the 240 feet
datum plane to ensure permanent protection to the fresh water. In case of a dry
well, a proper and sufficient plug shall be installed in the well at the datum
plane, so that no salt water shall enter the fresh water strata.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Plugging gas or oil wells, see KRS 353.110 through 353.180
§ 150.03 REPORT OF COMPLETION OF DRILLING; INSPECTION.
   On the completion of drilling a well within the city, the owner or lessee of
the well shall report completion to the Department of Public Services. A
representative of the Department of Public Services shall examine the well, and
shall report to the Director of Public Services that the casing and plugging is
properly installed, and that all work in connection with the drilling of the
well and casing and plugging has been fully done and completed according to the
provisions of §
153.02. The report shall be left or filed with the Director of Public Services,
who is hereby appointed custodian of such reports.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Adoption of certain state and national codes
   
151.02   Adoption of Standards of Safety; National Fire Code
   
151.03   Encroachments on public property prohibited; removal
Building and Demolition Permits
   
151.15   Permit required
   
151.16   Permit application
   
151.17   Permit fee schedules; permit valuations
   
151.18   Damage to adjacent property
   
151.19   Parking spaces and driveways
   
151.20   Issuance
   
151.21   Refusal
   
151.22   Contractor to obtain business privilege license
   
151.23   Foundation permits
   
151.24   Permit is license
   
151.25   Drawings to be kept at site
   
151.26   Recordkeeping; duties of Building Inspector
   
151.27   Remedies
Inhabitable Property where Methamphetamine Has Been Manufactured; Occupancy
   
151.40   Definitions
   
151.41   Residency or other occupation prohibited
   
151.42   Notification to occupants of other dwelling units
   
151.43   Abatement; removal of placard; occupation
   
151.44   Notice of condemnation
Electrical Standards
   
151.55   General provisions
   
151.56   Electrical Inspector
   
151.57   Approval required on new installation
   
151.58   Inspection of buildings; disconnection of defective electrical
equipment
   
151.59   Notice of intention to install wiring or make alterations; exceptions
   
151.60   Permits
   
151.61   Schedule of electric permit and inspection fees
   
151.62   Certification
   
151.63   Conflict
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF CERTAIN STATE AND NATIONAL CODES.
   (A)   The 2018 Kentucky Building Code and the 2018 Kentucky Residential Code
as promulgated and/or approved by the Commonwealth’s Board of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, and as they may be revised or amended, are hereby
adopted in full as an ordinance of the City of Ashland, Boyd County, Kentucky,
by reference, as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   Copies of the above codes, together with copies of all regulations or
pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, shall be kept on file in the
office of Code Enforcement of the city. Such Codes shall be made available for
reference at all times during the regular office hours of such officials.
   (C)   An attested copy of the ordinance adopting this section shall be
transmitted to the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   The Department of Planning and Community Development, Division of Code
Enforcement, shall be the designated local enforcement agency for the above
codes.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 13-1991, passed 2-19-1991; Ord. 31-1991, passed 4-
16-1991; Ord. 116-2013, passed 11-14-2013; Ord. 157-2018, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS OF SAFETY; NATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as promulgated
in 815 KAR 10:060 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Building
and Construction on the advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full. A copy shall be kept in the
office of the Fire Chief at all times.
   (B)   The National Fire Code and all codes a part thereof, as promulgated by
the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Quincy,
Massachusetts 02269, a copy of which is on file in the office of the Fire Chief
of the City of Ashland, is hereby adopted in full by reference, as if set out
in full. A copy shall be kept in the office of the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief
shall at all times keep in his or her possession for reference a copy of the
Uniform Fire Code and/or any future codes adopted by the NFPA.
   (C)   The Ashland Fire Department shall be designated as the local
enforcement agency for the Standards of Safety and National Fire Code as
appointed by the Board of City Commissioners.
   (D)   All final decisions of the fire code official of the city shall be
appealable to a local appeals board pursuant to the procedures adopted by the
Board of City Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 101-1999, passed 8-19-1999; Ord. 66-2007, passed
6-26-2007; Ord. 67-2007, passed 6-26-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, to construct
or maintain any building or other structure, or portion thereof, or
appurtenance thereto, except sidewalks, walkways, steps or driveways used as a
means of approach, ingress and egress to and from privately owned real estate,
on the publicly owned, or city property, within the city. Any sidewalks,
walkways, steps and driveways, above mentioned, shall be privately constructed
only after obtaining a permit so to do, issued and obtained from the office of
the Building Inspector of the city as other building permits are issued and
obtained.
   (B)   All privately owned structures prohibited by division (A) of this
section or portions thereof, not included within the exceptions set out in
division (A) of this section now standing or encroaching on public property
shall be removed therefrom within 30 days after written notice to remove them
issued by the office of the City Manager.
   (C)   In the case of the failure or refusal of any person to remove any of
the structures prohibited by divisions (A) and (B) of this section within the
limit of time fixed by the notice provided for in division (B) of this section,
the city shall have the right to remove the structures at the cost of the
abutting property owner or the owner of the land on which the structure is
located.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 20-1954, passed 9-24-1954) Penalty, see §
151.99
BUILDING AND DEMOLITION PERMITS
§ 151.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of
any building or structure, including accessory buildings, or to commence the
moving, alteration or demolition of any building or structure, including
accessory buildings, until the Building Inspector has issued a permit for the
work.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) (Ord. 13-1951, passed 3-6-1951; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be made on forms supplied by the
Building Inspector. The applicant shall submit two sets of dimensioned sketches
indicating the shape, size, height and location in relation to all property
lines and to street or road lines of all buildings or structures to be erected,
altered, moved or demolished and of any building or structure already on the
lot.
   (B)   For all building permits, the applicant shall furnish two sets of
detailed plans as follows. Plans for parking spaces and driveways are to be
included as required by the city zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The applicant shall also state the existing and intended use of all
such buildings and supply other information as may be required by the Building
Inspector to ensure that the provisions of this subchapter, the city zoning
ordinance and other pertinent ordinances or laws, are being observed. All
applications, sketches and other information supplied in order to obtain a
building permit must be signed by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.17 PERMIT FEE SCHEDULES; PERMIT VALUATIONS.
   (A)   Building permit fees.
      (1)   Generally. No permit shall be issued until the fees prescribed in
this section shall have been paid. No amendment to a permit shall be approved
until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of
the building or structure, shall have been paid.
      (2)   Exception. Ramps constructed with wood are not required to pay a
permit fee, but are still required to have a building permit.
      (3)   Fees for all construction and remodeling.
Valuation Fee
Valuation           Fee
$1—$1,000         $25
$1,001—$50,000    $25 plus $6 per $1,000
$50,001—$250,000  $325 plus $5 per $1,000 over $50,000
$250,001—$1,000,00$1,325 plus $4 per 1,000 over $250,000
$1,000,001 and over $4,325 plus $3 per 1,000 over $1,000,000
Moving              $10 per $1,000 value
Demolition          $10 per $1,000 cost
Signs               $0.25 per square foot on sign areas
                    $25 minimum per business/site application
                    100% surcharge for requests received after-the-fact
 
   (B)   State jurisdiction.
      (1)   For all projects that the Commonwealth has jurisdiction over, a
permit fee will only be charged to cover services provided, if any, by the
city’s Building Department.
      (2)   One hundred percent surcharge for requests received after
construction has started.
   (C)   Plan review fees. No permit shall be issued where a plan review is
required until the fees prescribed in this section have been paid. No amendment
to a permit shall be approved until the additional fee, if any, due to an
increase in the plan review, shall have been paid.
   (D)   All plan review. The city hereby adopts by reference the Plan Review
Fee Schedule as established by the Commonwealth of Kentucky in the 2018
Kentucky Building Code, effective January 2019.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008; Ord. 113-2009, passed 9-3-2009; Ord. 158-2018, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 151.18 DAMAGE TO ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   In all cases where there is a possibility of damage to city or private
properties such as sidewalks, streets, adjacent buildings or utilities as a
result of the proposed construction, moving or demolition, security in an
amount deemed sufficient by the Building Inspector must be furnished. The
security may be furnished in the form of cash, negotiable securities or surety
bond.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.19 PARKING SPACES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   For all construction, other than one- and two-family dwellings, the
applicant shall furnish the Building Inspector with cash, negotiable securities
or a surety bond in an amount sufficient to cover the cost of the pavement of
all parking spaces and driveways as shown on the plans submitted to the
Building Inspector, to secure the actual construction and installation of the
improvements within 90 days after the occupancy of the building, subject to one
30-day extension by the Building Inspector if good cause is shown.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.20 ISSUANCE.
   If the proposed excavation, construction, alteration, moving or demolition,
as set forth in the application, is in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, the city zoning ordinance, and other ordinances or laws then in
force, the Building Inspector shall issue a permit for the excavation,
construction, alteration, moving or demolition within 14 days of the filing of
the application by the applicant and receipt of all other necessary permits or
approvals issued by the city or other governmental units, departments or
agencies.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.21 REFUSAL.
   (A)   If the application for a permit and the drawings filed therewith
describe work which does not conform to the requirements of this subchapter or
other pertinent laws or ordinances, the Building Inspector shall not issue a
permit, but shall return the drawings to the applicant with his or her refusal
to issue the permit.
   (B)   When a permit is refused, the Building Inspector shall state the
refusal in writing, setting forth in detail all reasons for refusal and shall,
within seven working days, mail notice of the refusal to the applicant at the
address indicated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.22 CONTRACTOR TO OBTAIN BUSINESS PRIVILEGE LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of every contractor who shall make contracts for the
erection, construction, enlargement, repair, movement, improvement, removal,
conversion or demolition of buildings for which a permit is required, and every
contractor making such contracts and subletting the same or any part thereof,
to obtain a business privilege license provided for in the occupational license
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 FOUNDATION PERMITS.
   When application for permit to erect or enlarge a building has been filed
and pending issuance of the permits, the Building Inspector may, at his or her
discretion, issue a special permit for the foundations of the building. The
holder of such a special permit shall proceed at his or her own risk and
without assurance that a permit for the superstructure will be granted.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.24 PERMIT IS LICENSE.
   (A)   A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the
work and shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set
aside any of the provisions of this chapter, the zoning ordinance or other
pertinent ordinances or laws. Such issuance shall not prevent the Building
Inspector from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans or in
construction, or of violations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the authorized work is not
commenced within one year after issuance of the permit, or if the authorized
work is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the time of
commencing the work. For reasonable cause, the Building Inspector may grant one
or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 90 days each.
   (C)   Any demolition or moving permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by it shall have been completed within 90 days after its
issuance.
(Prior Code, § 151.24) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.25 DRAWINGS TO BE KEPT AT SITE.
   When the Building Inspector issues a permit, he or she shall endorse two
sets of plans “approved” in writing or stamp. One set of plans so approved
shall be retained by the Building Inspector and the other set shall be returned
to the applicant. The latter set of approved plans shall be kept at the site of
work and shall be open to inspection by the Building Inspector or his or her
authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 151.25) (Ord. 30-1974, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-
23-2008)
§ 151.26 RECORDKEEPING; DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to keep a record of all
applications for permits and a record of all permits issued with a notation of
all the special conditions involved. The Inspector shall file and safely keep
copies of all plans submitted and the same shall form a part of the records of
his or her office and shall be available for the use of the Board of City
Commissioners and other city officials and subject to public inspection.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting
of all permit fees and other monies collected, the names of all persons on
whose account the money was paid, and the date and amount thereof.
(Prior Code, § 151.26) (Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 151.27 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used
in violation of this subchapter, the city, its Building Inspector or other
authorized officer, agent, board or commission, or any property owner who would
be damaged by the violation, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may
institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate action to
prevent, enjoin, abate or remove the unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, maintenance or use.
(Prior Code, § 151.27) (Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-23-2008)
INHABITABLE PROPERTY WHERE METHAMPHETAMINE HAS BEEN MANUFACTURED; OCCUPANCY
§ 151.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECONTAMINATION STANDARD. The standards set forth in the administrative
regulations relating to the decontamination of property where the unlawful
manufacture of methamphetamine has taken place as promulgated by the Kentucky
Energy and Environment Cabinet and codified at 401 KAR 101:040, as same may be
amended from time to time.
   INHABITABLE PROPERTY. Any building or structure that is intended to be
occupied by people as a residence or place of lodging, whether such residency
or lodging be temporary or permanent, including, without limitation, houses,
duplexes, multi-plexes, apartments, condominiums, townhouses, mobile homes, bed
and breakfast facilities, and hotel and motel rooms.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person or entity identified as the owner of the property
in question and at the address reflected by the records on file in the office
of the Boyd County Property Valuation Administrator.
   PROPERTY WHERE METHAMPHETAMINE HAS BEEN MANUFACTURED or PROPERTY.
Inhabitable property in which the unlawful manufacture of methamphetamine has
taken place as confirmed by a state or local law enforcement agency and:
      (1)   In the case of a house, the entire house;
      (2)   In the case of a duplex, multi-plex, apartment building, townhouse
building or condominium building, the entirety of the individual residence
wherein methamphetamine was manufactured;
      (3)   In the case of a mobile home, the entire mobile home; or
      (4)   In the case of a bed and breakfast facility or of a hotel or motel,
the individual room wherein methamphetamine was manufactured.
(Prior Code, § 151.40) (Ord. 49-2013, passed 6-6-2013)
§ 151.41 RESIDENCY OR OTHER OCCUPATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When property where methamphetamine has been manufactured has been
identified, the city’s codes enforcement personnel shall:
      (1)   Except in the case of an individual room in a bed and breakfast
facility or in a hotel or motel, post on such property in a conspicuous
location a placard bearing the word “Condemned”;
      (2)   Require that the property be vacated; and
      (3)   Serve on the owner of such property or the person responsible for
the property or the management thereof a notice stating:
         (a)   That the property has been condemned and declared unfit for
human occupancy;
         (b)   The reason for such condemnation and declaration;
         (c)   That the property shall remain condemned, unoccupied, and
declared to be unfit for human occupancy until such time as abatement as
hereinafter set forth has taken place; and
         (d)   The steps required to effect abatement as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Any property where methamphetamine has been manufactured and condemned
by the Code Enforcement Official shall be immediately vacated as ordered by the
Code Enforcement Official. Any person who shall occupy property so condemned,
and any owner or person responsible for the property or the management thereof
who shall permit the occupation of such condemned property, shall be guilty of
a violation.
(Prior Code, § 151.41) (Ord. 49-2013, passed 6-6-2013) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 NOTIFICATION TO OCCUPANTS OF OTHER DWELLING UNITS.
   When the property where methamphetamine has been manufactured consists of an
individual residence (the “contaminated residence”) in a building which
contains other individual residences (the “other residences”), the Code
Enforcement Official shall endeavor to determine whether the HVAC system which
services the building is such that air from the contaminated residence is
circulated into the other residences as well. If it appears that air is so
circulated, the Code Enforcement Official shall attempt to give notification to
the occupants of the other residences of the fact that methamphetamine has been
manufactured in another residence within the building and that they should take
such steps as they may feel to be appropriate to ensure their safety in
determining whether or not to continue the occupation of the residence in
question.
(Prior Code, § 151.42) (Ord. 49-2013, passed 6-6-2013)
§ 151.43 ABATEMENT; REMOVAL OF PLACARD; OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Property where methamphetamine has been manufactured shall remain
condemned, placarded and unoccupied as set forth above until such time as there
has been presented to the city the written certification, from a contractor
certified within the meaning of KRS 224.01.410(4)(a), that the property either:
      (1)   Upon inspection met the decontamination standard for
methamphetamine and/or methamphetamine precursors; or
      (2)   Has undergone decontamination procedures which have resulted in the
property’s meeting the decontamination standard for methamphetamine and/or
methamphetamine precursors.
   (B)   At such time as such written certification has been produced to the
city’s Department of Code Enforcement, the codes official shall remove the
condemnation placard and, provided that the property is otherwise in conformity
with applicable code requirements, the property may then be occupied.
(Prior Code, § 151.43) (Ord. 49-2013, passed 6-6-2013)
§ 151.44 NOTICE OF CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   The notice of condemnation required under the provisions of §
151.41 shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the property where methamphetamine has
been manufactured sufficient for identification;
      (3)   Contain the information set forth in §
151.41 of this section; and
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner.
   (B)   Notice shall be conclusively deemed to have been properly served on
the property owner if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by first-class mail; or
      (3)   If the mailed notice is returned showing that it was not delivered,
a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice.
   (C)   In the case of a hotel, motel or bed and breakfast facility with
management or clerical staff on the premises and containing property where
methamphetamine has been manufactured, the notice shall further be personally
delivered to one or more of such management or clerical staff on the premises
at such time as the Code Enforcement Official is on premises for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 151.44) (Ord. 49-2013, passed 6-6-2013)
ELECTRICAL STANDARDS
§ 151.55 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Scope. This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Electrical Ordinance of the City of Ashland, Kentucky”.
   (B)   Purpose. This subchapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall
be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes of public safety,
health and welfare, through structural strength and stability, and safety of
life and property from fire hazards incidental to installation, alteration,
repair and/or removal of the electrical wiring or equipment.
   (C)   Compliance with national code. All electrical wiring in installation
of electrical apparatus and appliances for furnishing light, heat or power in
the city, from and after March 13, 2014, shall comply in all respects with the
rules and regulations of the National Electric Code of the National Fire
Protection Association as issued, revised and in effect from time to time
hereafter, and with the provisions of this subchapter, the laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and other applicable ordinances of the city, as now
exist and as may be amended.
   (D)   Resistance electric heating. All installations of resistance electric
heating shall comply with the latest recommendations of the American Society of
Heating and Air Conditioning Engineers.
(Prior Code, § 151.55) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 151.56 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Position of Electrical Inspector.
      (1)   There is hereby created the position of Electrical Inspector, said
party(ies) to be appointed by the Board of City Commissioners and shall report
to the Director of Planning and Community Development. The position shall be
filled by contract unless the Board determines otherwise. A person(s) chosen to
act as an Electrical Inspector shall be a competent electrician(s) of good
moral character and certified as an electrical inspector for residential and
commercial uses by the Department of Housing, Building and Construction,
Electrical Division, Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (2)   He or she shall have substantial bona fide experience in
construction of work and shall have such extensive ability as required for the
faithful performance of his or her duties, and shall have a thorough knowledge
of standard materials and methods used in the installation of electrical wiring
devices, appliances and equipment. He or she shall be well versed in approved
methods of electrical construction to assure the safety of life and property,
the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the ordinances of the city,
relating to electrical work, the rules and regulations issued under the
authority of the Kentucky Revised Statutes and the National Electrical Code. In
the discretion of the Department Director, alternate persons may be named to
conduct electrical inspections, as may be required from time to time. It shall
be unlawful for any Electrical Inspector or any of his or her authorized
assistants, agents or employees, to engage in the business of sales,
installation or maintenance of electric wiring devices, appliances or
equipment, either directly or indirectly, and he or she shall not have any
financial interest in any business or enterprise engaged in such electrical
business in the city at any time while such individual is the Electrical
Inspector for the city.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to see that
the provisions of this subchapter are enforced and to enforce within the city
the laws of the Commonwealth relating to the installation of electrical wiring,
devices, appliances and equipment. He or she shall make inspections of all new
electrical installations as set out herein. He or she shall keep records of all
permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and other official work
performed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and such records
shall be available for review at the request of the Department Director.
(Prior Code, § 151.56) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 151.57 APPROVAL REQUIRED ON NEW INSTALLATION.
   All electrical wiring, apparatus and appliances hereafter installed in the
city shall be inspected by the Electrical Inspector; and it shall be unlawful
to use any new electrical installation in any building before the same has been
inspected and approved by the city’s Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 151.57) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.58 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS; DISCONNECTION OF DEFECTIVE ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right, during reasonable
hours, to enter any building or premises in the discharge of his or her
official duties, or for the purpose of making inspections, reinspection or
tests of electrical equipment contained therein or its installation. When any
electrical equipment is found by the Electrical Inspector not to be in
accordance with the standards of the National Electrical Code and/or to be
dangerous to persons or property because of its substandard or defective
installation or maintenance, the person, firm or corporation responsible for
this electrical equipment shall be notified in writing of said defects and must
enter upon any changes or repairs required in said notice within ten days and
further, shall pursue said changes and repairs to diligent completion.
   (B)   If, during his or her inspections, the Electrical Inspector shall find
that electrical wiring, appliances, installations or equipment do not meet the
standard of the National Electrical Code and the Electrical Inspector has
reasonable cause to believe that such faulty installation or maintenance
creates a condition of immediate peril and/or danger to persons and/or
property, then he or she shall immediately order the disconnection of such
electrical equipment. No such order of disconnection shall be made by the
Electrical Inspector unless he or she shall serve on the owner or operator and
upon the local power company, written notice of his or her findings and the
violations revealed by his or her inspection requiring the immediate
disconnection. The owner/operator of the property in question shall have the
right to appeal the order of the Electrical Inspector. It shall be unlawful for
any person, form or corporation, to reconnect electrical power to electric
wiring, appliances, equipment or installations while the such appliances,
equipment or installations are under an order of disconnection.
(Prior Code, § 151.58) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.59 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO INSTALL WIRING OR MAKE ALTERATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No electric wiring devices, appliances or equipment shall be installed
within or on, any building structure or premises, nor shall any alterations be
made in existing wiring devices, appliances or equipment without notifying the
Electrical Inspector and obtaining a permit.
(Prior Code, § 151.59) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.60 PERMITS.
   Permits shall be required before commencing construction, alteration or
repair of any electrical wiring within the city pursuant to the Kentucky
Building Code and the Kentucky Residential Code as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120
and 7:125, respectively, and all other applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 151.60) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.61 SCHEDULE OF ELECTRIC PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees.
Residential
Residential
Additional wiring (ADDITIONAL means adding circuits or replacing $30
older wiring)
Service change                                                   $30
Apartments < 100 amps                                            $30 per unit
Apartments < 200 amps                                            $40 per unit
Single-family/condo/townhouse                                    $40 per unit
Commercial
Additional wiring (see above)                                    $50
Service change                                                   $50
New construction                                                 $75
 
   (B)   Inspection fees. All inspection fees charged by the Electrical
Inspector(s) shall be regulated and set by the Director of Planning and
Community Development, subject to review and modification by the Board. These
fees shall be paid directly to the Electrical Inspector at the time of
inspection and payable by the user (i.e., homeowner, contractor and the like).
(Prior Code, § 151.61) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 151.62 CERTIFICATION.
   An electrical installation which has been inspected by the Electrical
Inspector as meeting the standards of the National Electrical Code shall be
furnished with an approval sticker bearing the signature of the Electrical
Inspector and his or her certification number to be placed in a conspicuous
place on the main service entrance equipment. The Electrical Inspector shall
also provide a certificate of compliance; if same is requested. The Electrical
Inspector shall keep a record of each inspection and such records shall be made
available to the Department of Housing, Building and Construction, Electrical
Division, upon its request.
(Prior Code, § 151.62) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 151.63 CONFLICT.
   Should any appointed alternate inspector, other than the primary appointed
Electrical Inspector, have a project under construction at the time of this
subchapter taking effect or of their respective appointment as an alternate
inspector, they shall be permitted to complete the construction and the
inspections for the project shall be performed by another duly appointed city
Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 151.63) (Ord. 21-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 in the discretion of the
court or jury trying the case.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§§
151.15 through
151.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 in the discretion of the court or
jury trying the case.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §
151.02 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order or regulation made pursuant thereto, shall severally, for each and
every such violation and noncompliance therewith, be deemed guilty of a
violation as defined by the Kentucky Penal Code (KRS Chapters 500 through 534)
and punished by imposition of a fine as provided thereunder.
      (2)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of §
151.02 shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue and all such
persons, firms or corporations shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects immediately. Each period of ten days that conditions
prohibited by §
151.02 are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate §
151.41 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed the sum of $1,000, by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 360 days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (F)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity that violates any of the
provisions of §§
151.55 through
151.62 or any other law of the Commonwealth shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine and/or imprisonment in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 534.040.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 47-1997, passed 4-17-1997; Ord. 66-2007, passed 6-
26-2007; Ord. 73-2008, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 49-2013, passed 6-6-2013; Ord.
21-2014, passed 3-13-2014)
CHAPTER 152: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
152.01   International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference
   
152.02   Revision to Code
   
152.03   Effect on pending suit or proceeding
§ 152.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   One copy shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, being marked
and designated as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2009 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code of the city, for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the office of the city’s Division of Property Maintenance are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
152.02.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 106-2009, passed 8-6-2009)
§ 152.02 REVISION TO CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised.
   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Ashland.
   Section 103.5. Insert: For all violations of the Property Maintenance Code
the fines shall be as follows:
 
            1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
Minimum fine $75         $150        $250
Maximum fine $150        $300        $500
 
      In addition to all fines a $100 service fee will be included for all
citations to offset the administrative costs of the Property Maintenance
Division.
      The minimum fine will be imposed in all first, second and third offenses
unless the Code Enforcement Board directs that the maximum fine be imposed. In
the event that an offense occurs more than three times in calendar year or is
habitually occurring over a span of years the officer will be directed to
automatically impose the maximum fine for the offense beginning with the 4th
occurrence and to continue weekly until the offense is corrected.
      NOTE: Costs incurred by the city to abate nuisances will be added to the
fines listed above at a rate equal to $70 per hour for each crew member and
piece of equipment used in the abatement billed in full hour increments, as
well as actual cost of materials used in the abatement. Cost for abatement if
performed by an agency contracted by the city shall be equal to actual cost and
payable directly to the contracted agency.
   Section 108.5. Delete: for the penalties provided by this code. Insert: for
a fine of not less than $500 or not more than $1,000.
   Section 112.4. Insert: not less than $500 or not more than $1,000.
   Section 302.4. Insert: 10 inches in height.
   Section 304.14. Insert: During the period from April 15 to November 1.
   Section 308.4. Insert: Disposal of large or abandoned items. Neither the
owner nor tenant of any property shall dispose of any large or abandoned items
left inside or out of a dwelling or other structure on the property by leaving
the items unattended on the curb outside of the city provided container. Should
a property owner or tenant require disposal of un-bagged items, tree limbs,
furniture or other items not regularly disposed of in household trash then a
special removal request may be made with the Solid Waste Division of the Public
Works Department for disposal at the current rate set forth by ordinance for
removal of such items, providing the city utility service is active and in good
standing at this location. Failure of the property owner or tenant to file a
special removal request prior to placing the items on the curb will result in a
written 24-hour notice being placed on the premises deeming it the sole
responsibility of the person having control of the property to properly dispose
of the items. Failure to dispose of the items within the allotted time will
result in removal of the items by the Solid Waste Division of the Public Works
Department at the current rate of disposal as well as the appropriate fine for
the offense being issued by the Property Maintenance Inspector.
   Section 602.3. Insert: to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from October 1 to May 15 to maintain a temperature of
not less than 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
   Section 602.4. Insert: Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied with
heat during the period from October 1 to May 15 to maintain a temperature of
not less than 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are occupied.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 106-2009, passed 8-6-2009; Ord. 6-2018, passed 1-
11-2018)
§ 152.03 EFFECT ON PENDING SUIT OR PROCEEDING.
   Nothing in this chapter or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted
shall be construed to effect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or hereby repealed as cited in § 3 of Ord.
106-2009; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 106-2009, passed 8-6-2009)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Application of provisions
   
153.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
153.08   Development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of local administrator
   
153.26   Establishment of development permit
   
153.27   Duties and responsibilities of local administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General construction standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
153.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
153.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
153.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
153.60   Nature of variances
   
153.61   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board
   
153.62   Duties of Variance and Appeal Board
   
153.63   Appeals/variance procedures
   
153.64   Conditions for variances
   
153.65   Variance notification
   
153.66   Historic structures
   
153.67   No impact certification within floodway
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth has in KRS Chapter 100 delegated to
local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
city hereby adopts this floodplain management chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood height and velocity, and by the
location in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
protected from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmmelt or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURE should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where base flood depths range from one to three feet,
there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized
by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO that
indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1% or
greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other human- made
facility or infrastructure. (See definition for STRUCTURE.)
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD
have a moderate to low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOODWATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by floodwaters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of
a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
on unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §§
153.60 through
153.67, FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION means that the variance granted must not cause
fraud on or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the
city will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure or other
development which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. This term includes only a docking
or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The
term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality, that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The potential adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or mis-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish,
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and nonresidential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250 (PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, AND THE LIKE TO BE APPROVED AND PERMIT
ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION CABINET)).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions which are not of such size or type as to require approval
by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filling of any area with earth, debris or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Kentucky Bureau of Surface Mining through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   KRS 151.320 (OFFICERS REQUIRED TO ENFORCE LAW).
      (1)   The mayor or chief executive officer of each city and the county
judge/executive of each county, shall have the concurrent duty of enforcing
with the Cabinet, within their respective cities and counties, the provisions
of KRS 151.250, 151.280, and 151.310 and rules and regulations issued
thereunder.
      (2)   When a violation of KRS 151.250, 151.280 or 151.310 within his or
her jurisdiction is brought to the attention of a mayor or chief executive
officer of a city or a county judge/executive, he or she shall immediately
notify the Cabinet of the location and details of such violation.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS - FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SFHA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices. For a
LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle
(see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) 1929 or NORTH AMERICAN
VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). A condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six-months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced
(DFIRMs). Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). See BASE FLOOD. The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter “A” is subject to the 100-year flood.
Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a
flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a 50% surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. parts
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968,
being 42 U.S.C. § 4023, as amended, which states that no new or renewal flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator
finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local zoning authority
or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws,
regulations or ordinances that are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict
land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development.
      (2)   The date the building permit is issued, provided the actual start
of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including
manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the
installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; the installation on the property of accessory
structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part
of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human- made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. Any action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      (2)   This term includes structure that are categorized as repetitive
loss. (Optional but required for ICC eligibility for substantially damaged
buildings.)
      (3)   For the purpose of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (4)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; and
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure taking place during a one-year period in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement.
This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage”,
regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (1)   This term does not however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specification
which has been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the historic structure’s continued designation as
a historic structure; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   Recommended development of written and adopted policy and
procedure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable material drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older
FIRMs) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Prior Code, § 153.05) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 68-2011, passed
6-16-2011)
§ 153.06 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated or qualified community officials determined by the
city from available technical studies, historical information, and other
available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the city which
may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect
the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 153.06) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 68-2011, passed
6-16-2011)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for Boyd County,
dated September, 2004, with accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and
for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the city by the Floodplain Administrator
and are enacted by the city pursuant to statues governing land use management
regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the city and are on
file and available for review by the public during regular business hours at
1700 Greenup Avenue, Ashland, Kentucky.
(Prior Code, § 153.07) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 68-2011, passed
6-16-2011)
§ 153.08 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provision of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in the
special flood hazard areas (SFHAs). See §
153.26 for instructions and explanation. Application for a development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 153.08) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 68-2011, passed
6-16-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable state regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent the
city from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Prior Code, § 153.09) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 68-2011, passed
6-16-2011) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 153.10) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 68-2011, passed
6-16-2011)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 153.11) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
   (B)   Flood heights may be increased by human- made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or
uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof, the Commonwealth, the Federal Insurance
Administration or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 153.12) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city hereby appoints the Director of Planning and Community Development
to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 153.25) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
153.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of the local
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is requested:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest grade;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
153.41(B) and
153.43(B); or
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by and under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by the same;
and
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Prior Code, § 153.26) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to the following.
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
      (3)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Review and use of any other base flood data.
      (1)   Generally. When base flood elevation data has not been provided in
accordance with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
153.40 through
153.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the city for adoption.
      (2)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
   (C)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
153.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
153.26(B);
      (2)   Certification required by §
153.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
153.26(B);
      (3)   Certification required by §
153.41(C) (elevated structures);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
153.44 (subdivision standards);
      (5)   Certification required by §
153.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
      (8)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter
as specified in §
153.99.
   (D)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
153.62(B);
      (2)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
153.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.46;
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
153.41(B) a floodproofing certificate; and
      (4)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
   (E)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person having charge or control of such request
entry.
      (3)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      (4)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper warrant
or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any
other persons having charge, care of control of any building, structure or
premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein
provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the purpose
of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
   (F)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
   (G)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval issued under the
provisions of this chapter in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
   (H)   Liability. Any office, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself potentially liable, and is hereby
relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
   (I)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 153.27) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Prior Code, § 153.35) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
been provided, as set forth in §
153.07, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, (*mechanical and utility equipment, and ductwork)
elevated no lower than (see freeboard below in division (A)(4)) one foot above
the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements
of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with standards of division (C)
of this section.
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified. (The Commonwealth recommends that the lowest floor be elevated
above the highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding the depth number
specified in feet on the FIRM by at least one foot, or elevated at least three
feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.)
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated (see freeboard below in division
(A)(4)) one foot above the base flood elevation, and determined by this
community. (The Commonwealth recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least
one foot above the base flood elevation.) The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR Chapter 4, Regulation 060, § 5(5)a states as a part of the technical
requirements for a state floodplain permit: The applicant shall provide cross
sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood elevation)
at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross
sections shall be referred to mean sea level and shall have vertical error
tolerances of no more than plus five-tenths foot. Cross section elevations
shall be taken at those points which represent significant breaks in slope and
at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each
cross section shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in
the number and at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to
ensure that significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require
additional cross sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those
needed for making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   (a)   In all other zones, elevated (see freeboard below in division
(A)(4)) one foot above the base flood elevation. (The Commonwealth recommends
the lowest floor be elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.)
         (b)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   (a)   Freeboard requirements add height above the base flood
elevation to account for future flood fringe development, uncertainties
inherent with the methodologies, lack of data, debris that accompanies the base
flood, and flood levels higher than that of the base flood. A freeboard
requirement means that new construction and substantial improvements of
existing structures will be protected to a higher level than the base flood
elevation.
         (b)   Freeboard may be applied not just to the elevation of the lowest
floor or floodproofing level, but also to the level of protection provided to
all components of the structure. All structure utilities, including ductwork,
must be elevated or protected to the freeboard level and all portions of the
structure below the freeboard level must be constructed using materials
resistant to flood damage. If the lowest floor of garages or accessory
structures is below the freeboard level, the structure must meet the opening
requirements of division (B)(6) of this section.
         (c)   Meets criteria for CRS credit.
         (d)   Two references on these requirements are Protecting Building
Utilities from Flood Damage FEMA-348, and Flood Resistant Materials
Requirements, FIA-TB-2.
      (5)   *Optional language.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) of this section or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation (see freeboard in division (A)
of this section) one foot above the level of the base flood elevation so that
the surface is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement (*mechanical and utility
equipment, and ductwork), elevated no lower than (see freeboard in division (A)
of this section) one foot above the level of the base flood elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
153.26(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) of this
section.
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation (see freeboard in division (A) of this section) one foot above the
base flood elevation, and shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-93) for meeting this
requirement must meet or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. No new construction or substantial improvements
of elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings, for example, that include
fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the
base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
that the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
      (4)   The total floor area of all such enclosed areas shall not exceed
300 square feet. (This is optional language.)
      (5)   For enclosures greater than seven feet in interior height, where
elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest adjacent grade, a copy
of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the conversion of the area
below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to the structures’
originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition of issue of the
final certificate of occupancy. (This is optional language.)
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction, including
elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions; or
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than (see freeboard in
division (A) of this section) one foot above the level of the base flood
elevation (the Commonwealth recommends at least one foot above the base flood
elevation); and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Excepting manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage
as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than (see freeboard in division (A) of this section) one foot above the level
of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equal strength, of no less than 36
inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed and insured in accordance
with the state motor vehicle regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system,
is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (D)(1) of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements and other proposed new development
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of floodwaters into the system; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
   (G)   Structures elevated on fill. (Optional, meets criteria for CRS
credit.) A residential or nonresidential structure may be constructed on
permanent fill in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) of the structure or addition
shall be no lower than (see freeboard in division (A) of this section) one foot
above the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the base flood elevation, the slope being no
greater than a 2:1 ratio unless a stability analysis is provided by a
registered professional engineer;
      (3)   The top of the fill shall be no lower than (see freeboard in
division (A) of this section) one foot above the base flood elevation. However,
the ten-foot minimum may be waived if a structural engineer certifies an
alternative method to protect the structure from damage due to erosion, scour
and other hydrodynamic forces;
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties;
      (5)   All new structures built on fill must be constructed on properly
designed and compacted fill (ASTM D-698 or equivalent) that extends beyond the
building walls before dropping below the base flood elevation and has
appropriate protection from erosion and scour. The design of the fill or the
fill standard must be approved by a licensed professional engineer; or
      (6)   If the community adopts and enforces the soil testing and
compaction requirements set forth by the Standard, Uniform, or National
Building Codes or the International Residential and Building Codes, it may
qualify for additional CRS credit. (Optional, meets criteria for additional CRS
credit.)
   (H)   Vegetative buffer strips (riparian zones). For all activities
involving construction within 25 feet of the channel, the following criteria
shall be met:
      (1)   A natural vegetative buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least 25 feet of the mean high water level of the channel;
      (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction; and
      (3)   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided for stream
maintenance purposes.
(Prior Code, § 153.36) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
153.07.
(Prior Code, § 153.37) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements or residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
153.41(B).
(Prior Code, § 153.38) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and adjacent grade elevations shall be certified by
a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (F)   All new subdivision proposals shall include streets for emergency
access that will be subject to no more than six inches of floodwaters during
the 1% annual chance flood (100-year flood).
(Prior Code, § 153.39) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist flotation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level one foot above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Prior Code, § 153.40) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain).
Construction of new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the
floodway; however, they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alterative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the
base flood elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be
taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
   (B)   Critical facilities shall be constructed on properly compacted fill
and have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot above
the elevation of the 500-year flood. A critical facility shall have at least
one access road connected to land outside the 500-year floodplain that is
capable of supporting a 12,500-pound vehicle. The top of the road must be no
lower than six inches below the elevation of the 500-year floodplain. (This
meets the criteria for additional CRS credit.)
(Prior Code, § 153.41) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.60 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this subchapter are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this subchapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the city to help protect its citizens from flooding.
This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a
structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from the flood
elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare. The long-
term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be met if
variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in
this subchapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be
met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to
screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are
more appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 153.50) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.61 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD.
   The Appeal Board for this chapter shall be the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 153.51) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.62 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal the decision to the Boyd County Circuit Court, as provided
in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 153.52) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.63 APPEALS/VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the proposed
facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent facility;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
(Prior Code, § 153.53) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.64 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of §§
153.25 through
153.27 and
153.40 through
153.46 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. MINIMUM
NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the city need not grant permission for the
applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposes, but only to that elevation which the city believes will both provide
relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. In the
instance of a historical structure, a determination shall be made that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not destroy the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in this chapter),
cause fraud or victimization of the public (as defined in this chapter) or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
   (H)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of this subchapter are satisfied and
that the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and does not result in additional threats
to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 153.54) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.65 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the Department of Planning and Community
Development and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain
of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 153.55) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.66 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (as defined in this chapter) upon determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 153.56) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
§ 153.67 NO IMPACT CERTIFICATION WITHIN FLOODWAY.
   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped or designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Prior Code, § 153.57) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See the following
divisions of this section.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined pursuant to the terms enumerated in KRS
534.040 or imprisoned for not more than 365 days, or both, and in addition,
shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 180-2004, passed 12-21-2004)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Application of regulations; conformance required
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Variance in cases of undue hardship
Preliminary Plat
   
154.015   Application for tentative approval of final plat
   
154.016   Preparation by registered engineer
   
154.017   Features and information to be included
   
154.018   Vicinity sketch; horizontal scale
   
154.019   Construction plans for improvements
   
154.020   Planning Commission to approve or disapprove
   
154.021   Duty to proceed with work or post bond
   
154.022   Exemption to preliminary plat regulations
Final Plat
   
154.035   Formal request for approval
   
154.036   Features and information to be included; scale
   
154.037   Prints, original tracing or transparent copy to be submitted
   
154.038   Approval procedure
   
154.039   Recordation, final sales of lots prohibited before final plat
approval
Principles of Design and Layout
   
154.050   Conformance to principles required
   
154.051   Layout to conform to major street plan, city master plan
   
154.052   Dedication of open space
   
154.053   Street and alley layout
   
154.054   Block layout
   
154.055   Minimum rights-of-way
   
154.056   Minimum pavement widths
   
154.057   Street grades; curvature
   
154.058   Intersections
   
154.059   Lots
   
154.060   Exemption from design and layout principles
Improvements
   
154.075   Conformance to regulations required
   
154.076   Completion of improvements or posting of bond before filing final
plat
   
154.077   Streets
   
154.078   Sidewalks
   
154.079   Storm sewers or drainage system
   
154.080   Sanitary sewer system
   
154.081   Water system
   
154.082   Telephone or electric poles or underground conduits
   
154.083   Monuments
   
154.084   Street name signs
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Planning and zoning, see KRS Chapter 100
   Subdivision regulations, see KRS 100.273 through 100.291
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land
contained in this chapter shall apply within the city, and to land located
within the planning area as designated under the master plan.
   (B)   In planning and developing a subdivision, the general principles and
requirements set forth in this chapter shall be observed, and in every case the
procedure set out in this chapter shall be pursued.
(Prior Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE. A passage or way affording generally a secondary
means of vehicular access to abutting properties.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city.
   COLLECTOR STREET. See LOCAL STREET or COLLECTOR STREET.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director or Superintendent of Public Works of
the city.
   HIGHWAYS, THOROUGHFARES and PARKWAYS. The HIGHWAYS, primary and secondary
THOROUGHFARES or PARKWAYS, designated as such on the official major street
plan.
   LOCAL STREET or COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to serve and to provide
access to neighborhoods or subneighborhoods.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The official plan of highways, primary and secondary
thoroughfares, or parkways, being part of the official master plan.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   MASTER PLAN. The official master plan of the city and environs as adopted by
the Planning Commission.
   MINOR STREET. Any street not a highway, primary or secondary thoroughfare,
parkway, or local street, intended to serve and provide access exclusively to
the properties abutting thereon.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   PARK AND PLAYGROUND PLAN. The official plan of parks, playgrounds,
playfields, and other public recreation facilities, being part of the official
master plan.
   PARKWAYS. See HIGHWAYS, THOROUGHFARES and PARKWAYS.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city and
county.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Secretary of the Planning Commission and Planning
Director for the city and county.
   SCHOOL PLAN. The official plan of public schools, being part of the official
master plan.
   SERVICE DRIVE. See ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots
or parcels; or the consolidation of tracts or parcels for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale, lease or building development; or if a new street
is involved, any division of a parcel of land. A division of land for
agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five acres or more and not
involving a new street shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION. SUBDIVISION includes
resubdivision and when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process
of subdivision or the land subdivided. For the purposes of this chapter, two
classes of divisions shall be established as follows.
      (1)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land which does not conform to
the definition established for MINOR SUBDIVISIONS in division (2) of this
definition. Any subdivision proposing the creation of a new street shall be a
MAJOR SUBDIVISION and shall meet the requirements prescribed herein. Hereafter
in this chapter, a MAJOR SUBDIVISION shall be referred to as a SUBDIVISION.
      (2)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land resulting in no more than
three lots, or tracts, having frontage on an existing public street, or on a
private street or drive, providing adequate access for the lots to a public
street. MINOR SUBDIVISION does not include the creation of a public street and
does not require the construction of any improvements in the public right-of-
way as a result of the MINOR SUBDIVISION. MINOR SUBDIVISION also includes
transferring land between adjoining properties which share at least one common
boundary involved in the transfer or among several adjoining lots which result
in no more lots than existed prior to the subdivision. Any redivision,
occurring within 12 months, of lots approved in a MINOR SUBDIVISION shall be
deemed a MAJOR SUBDIVISION and shall follow the requirements for a MAJOR
SUBDIVISION, unless a waiver of the MAJOR SUBDIVISION requirements is approved
by the Planning Commission. If the MAJOR SUBDIVISION requirements are waived,
the redivision will be processed as a MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   THOROUGHFARES. See HIGHWAYS, THOROUGHFARES and PARKWAYS.
(Prior Code, § 154.02) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960; Ord. 14-1982, passed 3-
4-1982)
§ 154.003 VARIANCE IN CASES OF UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   In any particular case where the subdivider can show that, by reason of
exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, strict compliance with
any requirements of the regulations set out in this chapter could cause
practical difficulty or exceptional and undue hardship, the Planning Commission
may relax the requirement to the extent deemed just and proper, so as to
relieve the difficulty or hardship. However, relief may be granted without
detriment to the public good and without impairing the intent and purposes of
these regulations or the desirable general development of the neighborhood and
the community in accordance with the adopted master plan and the zoning code.
Any modification thus granted shall be entered in the minutes of the Commission
setting forth the reasons which, in the opinion of the Commission, justified
the modification.
(Prior Code, § 154.03) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 154.015 APPLICATION FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision along with construction plans for improvements to be installed
conforming with the requirements set forth in §§
154.016 through
154.018, and file with the Planning Commission an application in writing
seeking the tentative approval of the plat, accompanied by ten black line or
blue line prints, at least one week prior to a regularly-scheduled meeting of
the Commission.
   (B)   No person shall subdivide any land or proceed with any construction
work on a proposed subdivision, including grading, before securing the
tentative approval of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision as
provided in this chapter. Before so doing, the subdivider or his or her agent
shall submit the plat in sketch form to the Planning Director, or Secretary of
the Planning Commission, to ascertain the location of proposed highways,
primary or secondary thoroughfares, parkways, parks, playgrounds, and other
planned developments.
(Prior Code, § 154.10) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.016 PREPARATION BY REGISTERED ENGINEER.
   The preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, ten black line or blue
line prints, prepared by a registered engineer, shall accompany an application
in writing to the Planning Commission seeking tentative approval of the
subdivision, in order that improvements may be installed and a formal request
for final approval submitted thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 154.11) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.017 FEATURES AND INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED.
   The preliminary plat shall clearly show and include the following features
and information:
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or
closely approximate the name of any other subdivision in the county;
   (B)   The tract designation according to the real estate records of the
county;
   (C)   The names and addresses of the owners of record, the subdivider and
the engineer who prepared the plat;
   (D)   The names of adjoining subdivisions and the names of record owners of
adjoining parcels of unplatted land;
   (E)   The boundary lines, accurate in scale, of the tract to be subdivided;
   (F)   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted streets or
other public ways and easement proration lines, established triangulation
points, or other established survey corners or lines, and other important
features such as existing permanent buildings, large trees, watercourses,
railroad lines and the like;
   (G)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto, with pipe sizes
and grades indicated;
   (H)   Contours, normally with intervals of five feet, referenced to the city
datum, or as may be required by the Planning Commission;
   (I)   The layout, proposed names and widths of proposed streets, alleys and
easements; the location and approximate sizes of proposed catch basins,
culverts and other drainage structures; and the layout, numbers, and
approximate dimensions of proposed lots;
   (J)   Proposed front yard setback or other setback lines;
   (K)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated or reserved for public
use, or to be reserved in the deeds for the common use of property owners in
the subdivision, with the purpose, conditions or limitations of the dedication
or reservation indicated;
   (L)   North point, scale and date; and
   (M)   Copies of any proposed restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 154.12) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.018 VICINITY SKETCH; HORIZONTAL SCALE.
   (A)   A vicinity sketch at a scale of 400 feet or less to the inch shall be
drawn on or shall accompany the preliminary plat. The vicinity sketch shall
show all existing subdivisions and their names; the tract lines of acreage
parcels of land, together with the names of record owners of the parcels; and
all street and alley lines immediately adjoining the proposed subdivision and
between it and the nearest existing highways or thoroughfares.
   (B)   The horizontal scale of the preliminary plat shall be 100 feet or less
to the inch.
(Prior Code, § 154.13) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.019 CONSTRUCTION PLANS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Construction plans for improvements to be installed (three copies)
shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer, whose seal shall
appear thereon, in accordance with specifications of the officials having
jurisdiction, and shall be revised as may be necessary. These plans shall
receive approval of these officials before improvements are installed.
   (B)   Construction plans for improvements shall include the following:
      (1)   A plan and profile of each street, referenced to the city datum, at
a horizontal scale of 40 feet or less to the inch, and a vertical scale of ten
feet or less to the inch, with tentative grades indicated; including plans and
profiles of proposed sanitary sewers, also storm water sewers, if required,
with grades and sizes indicated;
      (2)   A typical cross-section of each proposed street, at a horizontal
and vertical scale of ten feet or less to the inch, showing the width of
pavement, the location and width of sidewalks, and the location of utility
mains;
      (3)   Complete grading plan; and
      (4)   A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe
sizes and the location of valves and fire hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 154.14) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.020 PLANNING COMMISSION TO APPROVE OR DISAPPROVE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission will check the preliminary plat as to its
conformity with the major street plan, the school plan, the park and playground
plan, and other adopted parts of the master plan, and the principles, standards
and requirements set forth in this chapter. Copies of the preliminary plat will
be referred by the Commission to the Director of Public Works, for checking of
matters within his or her jurisdiction and approval of the construction plans
of improvements proposed to be installed. The plat shall be referred by the
Director of Public Works to any other officials having jurisdiction of matters
not directly within the jurisdiction of the Director.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, upon receipt from the Director of Public
Works of the recommendations and advice concerning matters indicated in
division (A) of this section, will tentatively approve or disapprove the plat,
or approve it with modifications. If approved, the Commission will authorize
the subdivider to proceed with the proposed improvements in accordance with
general standards established by the Board of Commissioners. The Planning
Commission then will note on the plat any changes that are required, and will
return one copy of the plat to the subdivider with the date of the tentative
approval or disapproval endorsed thereon. A similar copy also will be
transmitted by the Commission to the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 154.15) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.021 DUTY TO PROCEED WITH WORK OR POST BOND.
   The subdivider, after the tentative approval of the preliminary plat, which
shall be effective for one year unless extended by the Planning Commission, may
do either of the following:
   (A)   Secure from the appropriate officials the necessary permits to proceed
with the street and sanitary improvements; or
   (B)   Post with the Planning Commission cash, negotiable securities, or a
surety bond, sufficient to cover the full cost of the improvements based upon
an estimate approved by the officials having jurisdiction, to insure the
satisfactory installation of the improvements in accordance with the
Commission’s regulations.
(Prior Code, § 154.16) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.022 EXEMPTION TO PRELIMINARY PLAT REGULATIONS.
   Approval of a minor subdivision is authorized provided there is the
designation on the face of the plat by the Director, Acting Director or
designated staff member of the Planning and Community Development Department
that the minor subdivision is in compliance with the master plan and provided
all of the following are satisfied.
   (A)   The requested subdivision action meets the definition of a minor
subdivision contained in §
154.002.
   (B)   The owner of land subject to a minor subdivision has filed an
application and the original and two copies of the minor subdivision plat with
the Planning Commission. The minor subdivision plat shall comply with the
minimum standards of practice for land surveying in the state, as adopted in
1980 and as amended from time to time. This plat shall show to the satisfaction
of the Director of Engineering the following:
      (1)   An accurately drawn plat at a scale of 100 feet, or less, to the
inch;
      (2)   The name of the subdivision, north arrow, date, written and graphic
scale, the name and address of the subdivider, and land surveyor/professional
engineer;
      (3)   A vicinity map relating the property to a sufficient number of
streets and other landmarks to enable easy identification of the subdivision’s
location in the city;
      (4)   Angles or true bearings and distance to the nearest established
street line or existing official monuments which shall be accurately described
on the plat;
      (5)   At least one corner of the land being subdivided must be referenced
to a corner of any parent tracts, durable object or controlled network (i.e.,
the state plane coordinates) where the corner, durable physical object or
geodetic station of a controlled network is reasonably accessible;
      (6)   Notation of the location, type, material and size of all found or
set monuments and lot markers;
      (7)   For all arcs, the length, radii, central angles, internal angles,
points of curvature, tangency and the length of all tangents shall be shown;
      (8)   For all easements lands, for joint use of property owners or other
rights-of-way, the location, width, and the printed words “public easement” or
other designation as appropriate shall be shown;
      (9)   For all lot lines, the dimensions in feet and hundredths, bearings,
and angles to the nearest 30 seconds shall be shown;
      (10)   For all lots, lot numbers, building address numbers and building
setback lines shall be shown;
      (11)   Sufficient information to demonstrate that the lot pattern created
by the minor subdivision plat conforms to the adopted zoning code; and
      (12)   An owner’s certificate, engineer’s or surveyor’s certificate,
certificate of the Director of Engineering, and a certificate of the Planning
Director shall be included.
   (C)   The owner and engineer/ surveyor placed an original signature on the
appropriate certificate on the original plat and each copy of the plat.
   (D)   The Director of Engineering has signed the appropriate certificate on
the plat acknowledging that the content of the minor subdivision conforms to
the regulations set out in this chapter.
   (E)   The Director, Acting Director or staff member of the Planning and
Community Development Department designated by the Planning Commission has
signed the appropriate certificate of approval on the plat.
   (F)   If any element of this section is not shown on the minor subdivision
plat, the plat may be reviewed by the Planning Commission at its next regular
meeting at the request of the owner. The Planning Commission may grant
variances from any of the provisions of this division (F) covering minor
subdivisions and approve the plat, provided the variances are reasonable and do
not violate sound land planning and land surveying principles. The plat must be
recorded in the office of the County Clerk at the expense of the subdivider
within six calendar months of the date of the plat’s approval; otherwise, the
plat is null and void.
(Prior Code, § 154.17) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960; Ord. 11-1967, passed 3-
27-1967; Ord. 31-1967, passed 11-27-1967; Ord. 14-1982, passed 3-4-1982)
FINAL PLAT
§ 154.035 FORMAL REQUEST FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The subdivider, upon completion of all improvements required by the
regulations set out in this chapter, or upon the posting of cash, securities or
a bond, shall file with the Planning Commission the final or record plat of the
subdivision for final approval. This plat shall conform in every respect with
the requirements specified in division (B) of this section and §
154.036. The final or record plat of any portion of a larger subdivision, the
preliminary plat of which has been tentatively approved, may be submitted for
final approval.
   (B)   Six black line or blue line prints and also the original tracing or
other transparent copy of the final or record plat of the subdivision, or of
any part of a larger subdivision, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
with a formal request for approval.
(Prior Code, § 154.25) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.036 FEATURES AND INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED; SCALE.
   The final plat shall be drawn at the scale of 100 feet or less to the inch,
and shall clearly show the following features and information:
   (A)   Legal description of the property, including reference to established
triangulation points or other established survey corners or lines;
   (B)   All plat boundary lines with lengths or courses to hundredths of a
foot and bearings or angles to the closest 30 seconds, based on an accurate
survey in the field which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure
not to exceed one to 5,000;
   (C)   The exact locations and the widths along the property lines of all
existing or recorded streets intersecting or paralleling the boundaries of the
tract;
   (D)   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street bounds, other
established survey lines, triangulation points or other official monuments,
which monuments shall be located or accurately described in the plat. Any
established survey or corporation lines shall be accurately monument- marked
and located on the plat, and their names shall be lettered on them;
   (E)   The accurate location and material of all permanent reference
monuments. These monuments shall be concrete cylinders or rectangular prisms,
not less than four inches in diameter or square, and 24 inches long, located at
the extreme corners of the subdivision. Other markers shall be steel rods not
less than three-quarter inch in diameter and 24 inches long, located at all
street corners, at all points where street lines intersect the plat boundary
lines and at angle points and points of curve in each street; and shall be one-
half inch square iron pins, 24 inches in length, at all lot corners;
   (F)   The exact layout including the following:
      (1)   Street and alley lines, with their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and widths, including widths along the line of any obliquely-
intersecting street;
      (2)   The lengths of all arcs including radii, points of curvature and
tangent bearings;
      (3)   All easements or rights-of-way, when provided for or owned by
public services, with the limitation of the easement rights definitely stated
on the plat; and
      (4)   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, and with
bearings or angles if other than right angles to the street and alley lines.
   (G)   Lots and blocks numbered in numerical order;
   (H)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for dedication
for public use, and of all property that may be reserved by covenant in the
deeds for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with the
purpose indicated thereon;
   (I)   Front yard setback building lines as fixed by the zoning code, and any
other setback lines or street lines established by public authority, and those
stipulated in the deed restrictions;
   (J)   Private restrictions, if any including the following:
      (1)   Boundaries for each type of use restriction; and
      (2)   Other private restrictions for each definitely-restricted section
of the subdivision.
   (K)   Name of the subdivision and name or number of the largest subdivision
or tract of which the tract being subdivided forms a part;
   (L)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions;
   (M)   Names and addresses of the owner or owners of record, the subdivider,
and of the registered engineer who prepared the plat;
   (N)   North-point, scale and date;
   (O)   Statement that any lot transferred, except those in business
districts, will have a minimum width and area substantially the same as those
shown on the plat, and that only one principal building will be permitted on
any such lot;
   (P)   Certification by the registered engineer who prepared the plat to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by him or her, that all monuments
indicated thereon actually exist, and that their location, size and material
are correctly shown; and
   (Q)   Other certificates required by law, including certificate of title
showing ownership of the tract of land included in the subdivision, and a
certificate showing that all taxes have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 154.26) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.037 PRINTS, ORIGINAL TRACING OR TRANSPARENT COPY TO BE SUBMITTED.
   The subdivider shall file with the Planning Commission six black line or
blue line prints, and also the original tracing or other transparent copy of
the final or record plat, and a formal request for approval thereof, along with
two copies of all covenants or restrictions pertaining to the plat.
(Prior Code, § 154.27) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.038 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission will transmit a print and the original tracing
or other transparent copy of the final or record plat to the Director of Public
Works for the purpose of checking. If found satisfactory, the original tracing
or other transparent copy will be returned by the Director of Public Works to
the Planning Commission, together with a two-fold certificate showing the
following:
      (1)   The technical details of the plat itself have been checked and
found satisfactory; and
      (2)   All required improvements have been satisfactorily completed or, in
lieu thereof, cash, negotiable securities, or a surety bond has been posted
assuring their installation.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission, after the original tracing or other
transparent copy of the final plat together with the certificates have been
received by the Commission from the Director of Public Works, and provided that
the final plat is found to be in reasonable conformity with the preliminary
plat as tentatively approved, will transmit four prints of the final plat,
along with the original tracing or other transparent copy, to the Board of
Commissioners or fiscal court of the county as the case may be, for action on
the acceptance of the dedication of any streets or other public grounds shown
on the plat.
      (2)   Thereupon, the Board of Commissioners or fiscal court, as the case
may be, will return three approved prints and the approved original tracing or
other transparent copy of the final plat to the Planning Commission, one for
the Commission’s files, one for the Building Inspector, one plus the
transparent copy for the Director of Public Works, and one approved print for
the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 154.28) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.039 RECORDATION, FINAL SALES OF LOTS PROHIBITED BEFORE FINAL PLAT
APPROVAL.
   Unless approved as the final plat of a subdivision as provided in §
154.038, the following conditions apply.
   (A)   No subdivision shall be entitled to record or be recorded by the
County Clerk or have any validity.
   (B)   No lot or parcel of land within the subdivision shall be transferred,
sold, or agreed to be sold by reference to, or by exhibition, or by any other
use of a plat of the subdivision. Any instrument of transfer, sale, or contract
shall be void and shall not be subject to being recorded.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall not issue building or repair permits for
any structure on a lot in the subdivision.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners or other authority shall not permit any
public improvements or services in the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 154.29) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN AND LAYOUT
§ 154.050 CONFORMANCE TO PRINCIPLES REQUIRED.
   In laying out a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with the general
principles and requirements set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.35) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.051 LAYOUT TO CONFORM TO MAJOR STREET PLAN, CITY MASTER PLAN.
   The layout of a subdivision shall conform to the major street plan and other
parts of the adopted master plan.
   (A)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a highway,
primary or secondary thoroughfare, or parkway, as designated on the major
street plan, that part of the public way shall be platted by the subdivider in
the location and at the width indicated on the plan.
   (B)   Where a proposed park, playground or other recreational area; proposed
school site; or other public ground, shown on the adopted school plan or park
and playground plan or other adopted part of the master plan is located in
whole or in part within the proposed subdivision, the proposed public ground or
park, if not dedicated to the city, the county, or the Board of Education,
shall be reserved for a period of not less than one year from the date of final
approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission, for acquisition by the
city, the county, or the Boards of Education concerned, by purchase or other
means.
(Prior Code, § 154.36) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.052 DEDICATION OF OPEN SPACE.
   Where held appropriate by the Planning Commission, open spaces suitably
located and of adequate size for parks, playgrounds or other recreational
purposes for local or neighborhood use shall be provided for in the design of
the proposed subdivision, and, if not dedicated to the public, shall be
reserved for the common use of all property owners in the proposed subdivision
by covenant in the deeds.
(Prior Code, § 154.37) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.053 STREET AND ALLEY LAYOUT.
   The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformity with a
plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas and the entire
neighborhood.
   (A)   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be continuous
and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with which they are
to connect.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, this extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with existing layouts or the most advantageous for future development of
adjacent tracts.
   (C)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles
as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
   (D)   Wherever there exists, adjoining the tract to be subdivided, a
dedicated or platted and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-
width of the street or alley shall be platted.
   (E)   Alleys shall be platted in the rear of all lots to be used for
business; and in the rear of residential lots fronting on highways, primary and
secondary thoroughfares, or parkways (unless service roads are provided in
front thereof) as a means of safe access thereto. Alleys will not be approved
in other locations in residential areas, unless required by unusual topography
or other exceptional conditions.
(Prior Code, § 154.38) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.054 BLOCK LAYOUT.
   (A)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, this is
prevented by exceptional topography or other physical conditions.
   (B)   The lengths of blocks shall be such as are appropriate, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, for the locality and the type of development
contemplated, but shall not exceed 1,800 feet where the average size of lots
does not exceed one acre in area.
   (C)   In any block over 900 feet in length, the Planning Commission may
require that a pedestrian way, not less than ten feet wide, be provided near
the center and entirely across the block.
(Prior Code, § 154.39) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.055 MINIMUM RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The minimum rights-of-way in subdivisions shall be as follows:
   (A)   Highways and primary thoroughfares. As designated on the major street
plan, but not less than 60 feet wide in any case;
   (B)   Secondary thoroughfares and parkways. As designated on the major
street plan, but not less than 50 feet wide in any case;
   (C)   Local streets. Fifty feet wide;
   (D)   Minor streets and dead-end streets (courts or culs-de-sac). Forty
feet. All dead-end streets shall terminate in a circular turnaround having a
minimum right-of-way diameter of 100 feet, unless the Planning Commission
approved a “T”- or “Y”- shaped paved space in the place of the required turning
circle;
   (E)   Alleys and service drives. Twenty feet; and
   (F)   Easements for utilities. Easements for utilities, where required,
shall be at least ten feet wide centered on rear or side lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 154.40) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.056 MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   Pavement widths shall be in accordance with the major street plan, and the
portion of the pavement required to be installed at the subdivider’s expense
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Primary and secondary thoroughfares or parkways, designated as such on
the major street plan, and local and minor streets, 24 feet, face to face of
curb;
   (B)   Overall pavement widths, shall be as designated by the major street
plan, and the differences, if any, between the cost of the portion to be
provided at the expense of the subdivider and that of the total width
designated by the major street plan shall be borne by the city or county, as
the case may be, unless it shall be determined by the Planning Commission that
the greater width will benefit the subdivider in proportion to its cost.
However, the cost of curb and gutter shall be borne by the subdivider in any
case;
   (C)   The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a dead end street shall
have a minimum outside diameter of 80 feet. A “T”- or “Y”-shaped paved space,
when approved by the Planning Commission in place of a turning circle, shall
extend entirely across the width of the street right-of-way and shall be at
least 15 feet wide with the flared portion rounded by a minimum radii of 25
feet; and
   (D)   Alleys and service drives: 16 feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.41) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960; Ord. 55-1960, passed
10-29-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.057 STREET GRADES; CURVATURE.
   (A)   The grades of streets shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   Highways, primary and secondary thoroughfares, or parkways,
designated as such on the major street plan, 5%. Minimum grades shall not be
less than 0.5%;
      (2)   Local streets, 10%. Minor streets, service drives and alleys, 15%;
and
      (3)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, 20%, unless steps of an acceptable
design are to be constructed.
   (B)   All changes in street grades above l% shall be connected by vertical
curves of a minimum length equal to 30 times the algebraic difference in the
rate of grade for highways, major streets, and parkways, and one-half of this
minimum for all other streets.
   (C)   The radii of curvature on the centerline shall not be less than the
following:
      (1)   Highways, thoroughfares and parkways, 500 feet; and
      (2)   Local streets, minor streets, service drives and alleys, 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.42) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.058 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   At street and alley intersections in residential areas, property line
corners shall be rounded by an arc, the minimum radii of which shall be ten and
five feet, respectively.
   (B)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 25
feet.
   (C)   The above minimum radii shall be increased when the smallest angle of
intersection is less than 60 degrees.
(Prior Code, § 154.43) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.059 LOTS.
   (A)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated.
   (B)   Excessive depth in relation to width ordinarily shall be avoided. A
proportion of two to one normally shall be considered appropriate.
   (C)   Every lot shall abut on or have direct access to a public street.
   (D)   Lots for residence purposes shall be in accordance with the minimum
requirements of the zoning code, and shall be at least 50 feet wide at the
building setback line in any case, in order to permit compliance with the side
yard requirements of the zoning code and still be adequate for a building or
practicable width.
   (E)   Corner lots for residential use ordinarily shall be platted wider than
interior lots in order to permit conformance with the setback required by the
zoning code on the side street.
   (F)   Residential lots fronting on highways, thoroughfares and parkways
should have extra depth to permit deep setbacks for the buildings.
   (G)   Double-frontage lots and reversed-frontage lots shall be avoided.
   (H)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the right-of-
way line of the street on which the lot fronts.
(Prior Code, § 154.44) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.060 EXEMPTION FROM DESIGN AND LAYOUT PRINCIPLES.
   The general principles of design and minimum requirements for the laying out
of subdivisions, set forth in this chapter, may be varied by the Planning
Commission in the case of a subdivision large enough to constitute a more or
less self-contained neighborhood which is to be developed in accordance with a
comprehensive plan safeguarded by appropriate restrictions, and which, in the
judgment of the Commission, makes adequate provision for all essential
community requirements. However, no modification shall be granted by the
Commission which would conflict with the proposals of the major street plan,
the school plan, the park and playground plan, or with other features of the
adopted master plan, or with the intent and purposes of the general principles
of design and minimum requirements.
(Prior Code, § 154.45) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.075 CONFORMANCE TO REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   Improvements shall be installed in accordance with the minimum requirements
and regulations set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.55) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS OR POSTING OF BOND BEFORE FILING FINAL
PLAT.
   (A)   All of the improvements required under this chapter shall be
constructed under contract approved by the Planning Commission, on
recommendation of the Director of Public Works, and shall be completed prior to
the filing with the Planning Commission of the final or record plat and request
for final approval, in accordance with the specifications and under the
supervision of the officials having jurisdiction.
   (B)   In lieu of completing the improvements as required in division (A) of
this section, the subdivider shall furnish the Planning Commission with cash,
negotiable securities, or a surety bond, sufficient to cover the cost of any or
all of the improvements required to be installed by the subdivider, based on an
estimate approved by the Director of Public Works. The bond shall be to secure
the actual construction and installation of the improvements within one year
after the final approval of the final plat, subject to extension by the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 154.56) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960)
§ 154.077 STREETS.
   Streets shall be graded to full width and fully constructed with an all-
weather surface roadway not less than 30 feet wide, face to face of curb, and
with curb and gutter, all as required and approved by the authorities having
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 154.57) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.078 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks of such width and type of construction as required by the Director
of Public Works shall be constructed on both sides of every street where the
average width of lots is 60 feet or less. Sidewalks shall be constructed on one
or both sides of streets, irrespective of the width of lots, where, in the
opinion of the Planning Commission these are necessary to protect the safety of
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 154.58) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 STORM SEWERS OR DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   Every subdivision shall be provided with a storm water sewer or drainage
system adequate to serve the area being platted and otherwise meeting the
approval of the officials having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 154.59) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.080 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   In every subdivision, provision shall be made for the satisfactory disposal
of sanitary sewage.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer main is reasonably accessible, in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, the subdivision shall be provided with a
complete sanitary sewer system connected with the sewer main, including a
lateral connection for each lot.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewer main is not reasonably accessible, in
the opinion of the Planning Commission, proper provision shall be made for the
disposal of sanitary waste, subject to approval of the officials having
jurisdiction. Individual sewage disposal facilities may be permitted in the
case of lots of 20,000 square feet or more in area, subject to approval of the
officials having jurisdiction based on soil and other conditions, as determined
by percolation and other tests, and in consideration of the means of water
supply as set forth in §
154.081.
(Prior Code, § 154.60) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 WATER SYSTEM.
   In every subdivision, provision shall be made for an adequate supply of
water.
   (A)   Where a public water main is reasonably accessible, in the opinion of
the Planning Commission, the subdivision shall be provided with a complete
water distribution system connected to the water main adequate to serve the
area being platted and including a connection for each lot, subject to approval
of the officials having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Where a public water main is not reasonably accessible, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, a complete private water distribution system shall
be installed, subject to approval of the officials having jurisdiction. An
individual water supply may be permitted in the case of lots of 20,000 square
feet or more in area, subject to approval of the officials having jurisdiction
in consideration of the method of sewage disposal to be employed as set forth
in §
154.080.
(Prior Code, § 154.61) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.082 TELEPHONE OR ELECTRIC POLES OR UNDERGROUND CONDUITS.
   Poles or underground conduits for electric lights or telephone lines shall
be placed in easements provided along rear of side lot lines wherever this is
practicable.
(Prior Code, § 154.62) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.083 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be placed in accordance with the requirements of §
154.036.
(Prior Code, § 154.63) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.084 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs, of a type meeting the approval of and in the locations
designated by the officials having jurisdiction, shall be erected.
(Prior Code, § 154.64) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or agent thereof who violates, omits, neglects
or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of the regulations set forth in this chapter, subject to the
modifications under §
154.003, or who sells or offers for sale, transfer or lease any lot or block of
land regulated by this chapter before all the requirements of these regulations
have been complied with, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine not less than $25 nor more than $500 in the discretion of the court
or jury trying the case. Each day any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed to be a separate offense. The description of a lot or parcel by metes
and bounds in any contract or instrument of transfer or other document used in
the process of selling or transferring the lot or parcel shall not exempt the
person attempting to transfer from the penalties or deprive the purchaser of
any rights or remedies he or she may otherwise have.
(Prior Code, § 154.99) (Ord. 27-1960, passed 7-12-1960; Ord. 46-1978, passed 7-
6-1978)
CHAPTER 155: HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
155.01   Community Development Policies Plan adopted by reference
   
155.02   Residential Antidisplacement and Relocation Assistance Plan adopted by
reference
   
155.03   Existing Structures Code to be used with the PHA assisted housing
programs
   
155.04   Section 8 Certificate and Housing Voucher Programs
   
155.05   Urban Renewal Plan for Light Industrial Park
§ 155.01 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICIES PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Community Development Policies Plan, City of Ashland, 1994 - 1996, as
adopted by the Urban Renewal and Community Development Agency on October 5,
1993, is hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city, by reference, as
if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 12-1991, passed 2-19-1991; Ord. 119-1993, passed
11-4-1993)
§ 155.02 RESIDENTIAL ANTIDISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   The Residential Antidisplacement and Relocation Assistance Plan under § 104
(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. § 5304, as
amended is hereby adopted by reference, as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 155.02) (Ord. 104-1988, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 82-2006, passed
6-29-2006)
§ 155.03 EXISTING STRUCTURES CODE TO BE USED WITH THE PHA ASSISTED HOUSING
PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The Board of City Commissioners, acting as the Board of Directors of
the Community Development Agency Public Housing Authority (the PHA), institutes
a policy whereby the Ashland Existing Structures Code (Ord. 80, 1986, as
amended by Ord. 50, 1989, and as may be subsequently amended) shall be used in
place of Federal Housing Quality Standards for housing units under contract
with the PHA assisted housing programs.
   (B)   This policy is in effect upon its passage for housing units within the
city; and at the time of initial, annual or move-out inspection for program
contracted housing units outside the corporation limits of the city.
   (C)   An inspection fee of $25 shall be charged to the program contracted
landlord for any re-inspection due to violations noted during routine program
inspections (which are at no cost).
(Prior Code, § 155.03) (Ord. 15-1994, passed 1-20-1994)
§ 155.04 SECTION 8 CERTIFICATE AND HOUSING VOUCHER PROGRAMS.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the Housing Choice Voucher Program
Payment Standards, effective January 1, 2025, for the Community and Economic
Development Department, Division of Assisted Living (Section 8). The payment
standards attached to Ord. 164, 2024 are adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 155.04) (Ord. 17-2000, passed 2-17-2000; Ord. 52-2001, passed 4-
19-2001; Ord. 128-2002, passed 11-7-2002; Ord. 11-2004, passed 1-22-2004; Ord.
118-2007, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 62-2009, passed 6-2-2009; Ord. 107-2009,
passed 8-21-2009; Ord. 35-2010, passed 4-1-2010; Ord. 46-2011, passed 4-19-
2011; Ord. 26-2012, passed 4-19-2012; Ord. 43-2013, passed 4-18-2013; Ord. 36-
2014, passed 4-24-2014; Ord. 31-2015, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. 6-2016, passed 1-
14-2016; Ord. 50-2016, passed 4-14-2016; Ord. 58-2018, passed 3-22-2018; Ord.
142-2018, passed 9-28-2018; Ord. 145-2018, passed 10-11-2018; Ord. 146-2018,
passed 10-11-2018; Ord. 148-2018, passed 10-25-2018; Ord. 154-2018, passed 11-
15-2018; Ord. 27-2019, passed 3-28-2019; Ord. 152-2019, passed 11-15-2019; Ord.
38, 2020, passed 4-9-2020; Ord. 76, 2020, passed 6-18-2020; Ord. 143, 2020,
passed 10-23-2020; Ord. 144, 2020, passed 10-23-2020; Ord. 1, 2021, passed 1-
28-2021; Ord. 65, 2021, passed 5-24-2021; Ord. 192, 2021, passed 12-9-2021;
Ord. 73, 2022, passed 5-12-2022; Ord. 160, 2022, passed 9-23-2022; Ord. 189,
2022, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 163, 2023, passed 12-14-2023; Ord. 23, 2024,
passed 2-8-2024; Ord. 164, 2024, passed 10-24-2024; Ord. 5, 2025, passed 1-10-
2025)
§ 155.05 URBAN RENEWAL PLAN FOR LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK.
   The Urban Renewal Plan for Light Industrial Park as adopted by the Urban
Renewal and Community Development Agency on May 3, 1994 and the City Planning
Commission on May 17, 1994, is hereby adopted in full by the city. The Plan is
attached to Ord. 87-1994, and made a part hereof by reference.
(Prior Code, § 155.05) (Ord. 87-1994, passed 6-16-1994)
CHAPTER 156: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference
§ 156.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The comprehensive plan of the city, be and the same is hereby adopted in
full, by reference, as an ordinance of the city, as if set out in full, as
provided in KRS 100.197. Said plan is attached to Ord. 103-2013 and made a part
hereof by reference.
(Prior Code, § 156.01) (Ord. 97, 2020, passed 6-26-2020)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Short title
   
157.002   Purpose
   
157.003   Definitions
   
157.004   Greater restrictions shall apply
   
157.005   Administrative standards
   
157.006   Application of chapter
District Boundaries
   
157.020   Establishment of zoning districts
   
157.021   Establishment of districts in annexed areas
   
157.022   Zoning district boundaries
   
157.023   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
157.024   Amendment of district boundaries
Supplementary District Regulations
   
157.035   General yard regulations
   
157.036   Front yard regulations
   
157.037   Side yard regulations
   
157.038   Front or street side yards in nonresidential districts
   
157.039   Intersection visibility; sight triangle
   
157.040   Accessory structures and uses; residential
   
157.041   Accessory structures and uses; nonresidential
   
157.042   Keeping of animals; agricultural uses
   
157.043   Manufactured units as temporary construction offices; nonresidential
structures
   
157.044   Townhouse dwelling units
   
157.045   Zero lot line units
   
157.046   Height regulations
   
157.047   Outdoor storage
   
157.048   Outdoor illumination of uses
   
157.049   Floodplain development
   
157.050   Right-of-way development
   
157.051   Mixed use development
   
157.052   Home occupation
Nonconforming Situations
   
157.065   Intent
   
157.066   Nonconforming lots of record
   
157.067   Enlargement or extension of nonconforming situations
   
157.068   Abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations
   
157.069   Change in type of nonconforming use
   
157.070   Completion of nonconforming project
   
157.071   Nonconforming signs
   
157.072   Nonconformity permit
Landscaping and Buffer Requirements
   
157.085   Purpose
   
157.086   General requirements
   
157.087   Screening and buffer requirements
   
157.088   Landscaping requirements; vehicular use areas
   
157.089   Plan review and approval
   
157.090   Sight distance requirements
   
157.091   Installation and maintenance
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
157.105   Purpose
   
157.106   General requirements
   
157.107   Location of off-street parking space
   
157.108   Interpretation and modification
   
157.109   Design standards
   
157.110   Schedule of off-street parking requirements
Off-Street Loading Requirements
   
157.125   Purpose
   
157.126   General requirements
   
157.127   Location of off-street loading space
   
157.128   Interpretation and modification
   
157.129   Design standards
   
157.130   Schedule of off-street loading requirements
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
   
157.145   Purpose and findings
   
157.146   Applicability of provisions
   
157.147   Requirements; grading permit
Site Plan Regulations
   
157.160   Purpose
   
157.161   Compliance with provisions; applicability
   
157.162   Requirements for permit for construction activities
   
157.163   Review of site plan; scope
   
157.164   Action by Zoning Administrator
   
157.165   Zoning site-review permit
   
157.166   Zoning site-review charges
Conditional Uses
   
157.180   Objective and purpose
   
157.181   Conditional use permits required; issuance
   
157.182   Procedure for approval of conditional use permits
   
157.183   Regulations, standards for conditional use permits
District Regulations
   
157.195   R-12 Residential/Low Density
   
157.196   R-6 Residential/Medium Density
   
157.197   R-5 Residential/Medium Density
   
157.198   R-4 Residential/High Density
   
157.199   P-H Public/Hospital
   
157.200   B-1 Neighborhood Business
   
157.201   B-2 General Business
   
157.202   B-3 Downtown Business
   
157.203   I-1 Light Industrial
   
157.204   I-2 Heavy Industrial
   
157.205   R-E Residential Estate
   
157.206   Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
157.207   Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses
   
157.208   Table of Dimensional Requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.220   Enforcement by Zoning Administrator; appeal to Board of Zoning
Adjustment
   
157.221   Issuance of permits, certificates and licenses
   
157.222   Violations
   
157.223   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
157.224   Forms and procedures for administration
   
157.225   Fees for application for action before the Planning Commission or
Board of Adjustment
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
157.240   Establishment
   
157.241   Powers, duties and rules
   
157.242   Liability of members
   
157.243   Appeals
   
157.244   Administrative review
   
157.245   Conditional use permits
   
157.246   Variances
   
157.247   Nonconformity permits
   
157.248   Appeals from the Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
157.249   Recording of conditional use permits, variances
Amendment Procedure
   
157.260   Changes and amendments; public hearing
   
157.261   Petition for amendment; requirements
   
157.262   Action by the Planning Commission
   
157.263   Action by City Commission
   
157.264   Reasons for amendment; agreement with comprehensive plan
   
157.265   Withdrawal of petition
   
157.266   Reconsideration of petition
   
157.267   Effect of amendment petition of building permits
Abandoned or Blighted Urban Property
   
157.280   Classified as real property
   
157.281   Rate of taxation for abandoned or blighted urban properties
   
157.282   Classification of property as abandoned or blighted urban property;
right to appeal
Cellular Antenna Tower and Small Cell Tower Regulations
   
157.295   Purpose
   
157.296   General
   
157.297   Applicability
   
157.298   Definitions
   
157.299   Regulations for cellular antenna towers
   
157.300   Regulations for small cell towers and facilities
   
157.301   Small cell wireless facility and small cell tower location and design
regulations
   
157.302   Confidentiality of applications
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be commonly known as and referred to as the City of
Ashland, Kentucky Zoning Ordinance of 1986.
(Prior Code, § 157.001) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish zoning districts and regulations
governing the development and use of land within the city, and providing for
the administration, enforcement and amendment thereof, in accordance with the
provisions of KRS Chapter 100 and the comprehensive plan of the city.
(Prior Code, § 157.002) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having property or district lines in common, such as, two lots are
abutting if they have property lines in common. Lots are also considered to be
ABUTTING if they are directly opposite each other and separated by public
right-of-way.
   ACCESS. A way of approaching or entering a property. ACCESS also includes
ingress, the right to enter, and egress, the right to leave.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use which:
      (1)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
      (2)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building
or principal use;
      (3)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use; and
      (4)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use, unless otherwise permitted.
   ADDITION. Any construction which increases the bulk, area or the height of
any portion of an existing building or structure.
   ADULT USES. Establishments whose activities include the following (or any
combination thereof), and which exclude minors by virtue of their age for
reasons not related to alcohol:
      (1)   Commercial establishment, offering for sale/display, which have a
substantial or significant portion of their stock and trade books, magazines,
newspapers or other printed or written material, or any picture, drawing,
photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial representation, or any statue or
other figure, or any recording, transcription or mechanical, chemical or
electrical reproduction, or any other articles, equipment, machines or
materials depicting sexual activity;
      (2)   Personal service establishments; and
      (3)   Entertainment establishments, whether live or in some other format.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of a tract of at least five contiguous acres for
the production of agricultural or horticultural crops, including, but not
limited to, livestock, livestock products, poultry, poultry products, grain,
hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco, timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers
or ornamental plants, including provision for dwellings for persons and their
families who are engaged in the above agricultural use on the tract, but not
including residential building development for sale or lease to the public.
   AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING. Regulations governing the height of structures near
airport facilities promulgated by the state and approved by the Federal
Aviation Administration; and as such zoning relates to the city, it is by
reference incorporated into this chapter.
   ALLEY. A public way (not a street) intended as only a secondary means of
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change or modification in construction, exit facilities,
building equipment or permanent fixtures which does not include an addition to
an existing building.
   APARTMENT. A room or a suite of rooms occupied, or which is intended or
designed to be occupied, as the home or residence of one individual, family or
household, for housekeeping purposes; and which has separate kitchen and bath
facilities.
   AS-OF-RIGHT PERMITTED LAND USE. Land uses and development standards which
are determined in advance, and specifically authorized by this chapter.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. For the purposes of this chapter, an automobile
service station shall include a self-service station which is defined as that
portion of property where flammable and combustible liquids used as motor fuels
are stored and subsequently dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment
into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the service station
attendant, and which may include facilities available, for the sale of other
retail parts. All AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS, including self-service stations
shall conform to the requirements of other applicable federal, state and local
laws. The term shall also include buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries and tires and automobile accessories shall be supplied and
dispensed and retailed and where, in addition, the following services may be
rendered, and sales made, and no other:
      (1)   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries and distributors and
distributors parts;
      (2)   Tire servicing and repairs but not recapping or regrooving;
      (3)   The replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hoses, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
      (4)   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
      (5)   Washing and polishing and sale of automotive washing and polishing
materials;
      (6)   Greasing and lubrication;
      (7)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
      (8)   Minor servicing/repair of carburetors;
      (9)   Emergency wiring repairs;
      (10)   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
      (11)   Minor motor adjustments, not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor;
      (12)   Sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar
convenience goods for filling station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operations;
      (13)   Provision of road maps and other information materials to
customers, provision of restroom facilities; and
      (14)   Uses permissible at a service station do not include major
mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding,
storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other characteristics to
an extent greater than normally found in service stations. A service station is
not a repair garage nor a body shop.
   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. A use which provides short-term transient
lodging, including serving only breakfast to overnight lodgers, for which rent
is paid and subject to the conditions cited in §
157.183.
   BEEKEEPING OPERATION OR APICULTURE. The maintenance of honey bee colonies,
commonly in human-made hives, by humans. A beekeeper (or apiarist) keeps bees
in order to collect their honey and other products that the hive produces
(including beeswax, propolis, pollen and royal jelly), to pollinate crops, or
to produce bees for sale to other beekeepers.
   BLOCK. A piece of land usually bounded on all sides by streets or other
transportation routes such as railroad lines, or by physical barriers such as
water bodies or public open spaces, and not traversed by a through street.
   BLOCK FACE. A street segment, and the properties on both sides of the street
segment, between two intersecting streets.
   BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT. A local body, created by ordinance, whose
responsibility is to hear appeals from decisions of the Zoning Administrator,
and to consider requests for variances and conditional use permits permissible
under terms of this chapter.
   BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling (single-family or multiple) or
rooming house, where rooms are rented and meals are served for compensation to
not less than three and not more than nine individuals.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements (yard, setback) have been met.
   BUILDING. Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls constructed
or used for residence, business, industry or other public or private purpose,
or accessory thereto, and including trailers or mobile homes, and attached
carports consisting of a roof and supporting members, and similar structures
whether stationary or movable.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the finished lot grade at the front building line to the highest point of
the roof beams adjacent to the front of the wall in the case of a flat roof, to
the deck line in the case of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the
gables.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building, and the nearest property line when
measured perpendicularly thereto.
   BUFFER. A strip of land, identified in this chapter, established to protect
and separate one type of land use from another.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under KRS 218B as a cultivator,
dispensary, processor, producer or safety compliance facility. Such licensed
businesses shall not be located within 1,000 feet of an existing elementary or
secondary school or a day care center. For the purpose of this regulation,
1,000 feet shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest property line
of an existing elementary school, secondary school or day care center to the
nearest property line of the proposed location of a CANNABIS BUSINESS.
   CANOPY, MARQUEE OR AWNING. Any roof-like structure extending from a building
facade.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. Official certification that a premises conforms to
provisions of this chapter and Chapter 151, Buildings of this code of
ordinances, and may be used or occupied. Such a certificate is granted for new
construction or for alteration or additions to existing structures, or when the
nature of a land use changes. Unless such a certificate is validated, a
structure cannot be occupied or used.
   CITY, CITY ADMINISTRATION. Where provisions of this chapter require city
administration approval, it shall mean the City Manager and/or employees
designated by the City Manager to act upon such matter.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL AND DENTAL. A building housing facilities for two or more
licensed physicians, dentists, or other similar practitioners.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An area of land or water, or a combination of both land
and water within a site designated for development, and designed and intended
for the use and enjoyment of residents of the development or for the general
public; not including streets or off-street parking areas. COMMON OPEN SPACE
shall be substantially free of structures, but may contain such improvements as
are in the plan as finally approved and as appropriate for the benefit of the
users.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is essential to or would promote the public
health, safety or welfare in one or more zones, but would impair the integrity
and character of the zone in which it is located, or in adjoining zones, unless
restrictions on location, size, extent and character of performance are imposed
in addition to those imposed in the zoning regulations.
   CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit which the ownership or the occupancy rights to
the dwelling unit is individually owned or for sale to any individual and such
ownership is not inclusive of any land; and established in compliance with KRS
Chapter 381.
   CONVERSION. Changing the original purpose of a building or lot to a
different use.
   COVENANT. A private legal restriction on the use of land, contained in the
deed to the property or otherwise formally recorded. There may be certain legal
requirements for formal establishment of a covenant such as a written document,
a mutual interest in the property, that the covenant be concerned with the use
of the land rather than individual characteristics of ownership, and the like.
This chapter does not regulate or enforce covenants.
   CRAFT BEVERAGE/DISTILLED SPIRIT PRODUCTION (LARGE SCALE). Establishments
engaged in on-site brewing or distilling in excess of 50,000 barrels of beer or
ale or 50,000 gallons of distilled spirit annually for retail distribution.
These establishments are primarily used for the production of beer and ale or
distilled spirits and may not include food service as an accessory use but may
include an on-site tasting room. The operation processes ingredients to make
beer and ale or distilled spirits by mashing, cooking and fermenting.
      (1)   All processing, production, manufacturing. distilling, brewing,
bottling associated with such establishment shall be located within a fully
enclosed building.
      (2)   Outdoor storage of materials, equipment or supplies associated with
such use is not allowed, unless otherwise allowed by the underlying zoning.
   DAY. Unless specifically mentioned otherwise in the text, DAY shall refer to
calendar days, including weekends and holidays.
   DAY CARE. Any child care arrangement under which a child less than 13 years
of age receives care away from his or her own home by persons other than his or
her parents, grandparents, guardians or full-time custodians.
   DAY CARE CENTER/NURSERY. Any child care arrangement which provides day care
on a regular basis for more than four hours per day, more than five children,
wherever operated and whether or not operated for profit, except that the
following are not included; public schools, nonpublic schools whether or not
accredited, which regularly and exclusively provide a course of grade school
instruction to children who are public school age; summer camps having children
in full-time residence; summer day camps; and Bible schools normally conducted
during vacation periods.
   DEDICATION. The offer to transfer property from private to public ownership.
Such transaction is not completed unless and until the appropriate public
agency accepts the offer.
   DENSITY. The average number of families, persons or housing units per unit
of land.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied by
three or more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding
the number of dwelling units provided, with separate bath and kitchen
facilities for each unit; and further designated by the following sub-
categories:
      (1)   Small scale: one structure per lot and no more than four units;
      (2)   Mid scale: one or more structure per lot and between five and eight
units; and
      (3)   Large scale: more than one structure per lot and/or more than eight
units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit other than a
mobile home, designed for and occupied by one family only. It does not include
fraternal or society type houses occupied by five or more unrelated adults.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE, ATTACHED. A single-family dwelling unit erected in a
row as part of a single building, on separate adjoining lots, each being
separated from adjoining units by an approved fire resistant party wall. See §
157.044.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY, DUPLEX. A detached residential building containing two
dwelling units, other than a mobile home, designed for occupancy by not more
than two families, with separate bath and kitchen facilities for each unit.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease, physically separated from other dwelling units which may be in the
same structure, and containing independent cooking, bath and sleeping
facilities.
   DWELLING, ZERO LOT LINE. A detached single-family dwelling unit which is
constructed against one side lot line. See §
157.045.
   EASEMENT. A right given by the owner of land to another party for specific
limited use of that land. For example, a property owner may give an easement on
this property to allow utility facilities, like power lines or pipelines, to
allow light to reach a neighbor’s windows, or to allow access to another
property.
   EATING/DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. Sale of prepared food and/or beverages for
on- and off-premises consumption. Typical uses include restaurants. taverns and
craft beverage production.
      (1)   RESTAURANT. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of
prepared food for consumption on or off the premises. Such establishments may
sell or serve beer, ale, wine or liquor.
         (a)   Where permitted, a RESTAURANT may include drive-in or drive-
through service where food and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for
consumption and where a significant portion of the consumption takes place or
is designed to take place outside the confines of the building.
         (b)   Such use often includes an intercom or speaker system, a menu
board, and an outside service window and may include vehicular attendant
service.
      (2)   TAVERN. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of
alcoholic drinks such as beer, ale, wine, and liquor for consumption on the
premises. Such establishments may sell or serve food.
      (3)   CRAFT BEVERAGE/DISTILLED SPIRIT PRODUCTION (SMALL SCALE).
Establishments engaged in on-site brewing or distilling and sales of the
product for on- or off-premises consumption. These establishments are primarily
used for the production of beer and ale or distilled spirits and may include
retail and food service as an accessory use. The operation processes
ingredients to make beer and ale or distilled spirits by mashing, cooking and
fermenting.
         (a)   All processing, production. manufacturing, distilling, brewing,
bottling associated with such establishment shall be located within a fully
enclosed building.
         (b)   Outdoor storage of materials, equipment or supplies associated
with such use is not allowed, unless otherwise allowed by the underlying
zoning.
         (c)   On-site production cannot exceed 50,000 barrels of beer or ale
or 50,000 gallons of distilled spirit annually.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A pre- primary, primary or grammar, public,
parochial or private school; a high school, preparatory school or academy,
public or founded or owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious or charitable organization, a private preparatory school or academy
furnishing courses of instruction substantially equivalent to the courses
offered by public high schools for preparation of admission to colleges or
universities which award BA or BS degrees; a junior college or university,
public or founded or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or
charitable organization or a private school when not conducted as a commercial
enterprise for the profit of individual owners or stockholders. This definition
shall not be deemed to include trade or business schools nor a home-based
educational program that is operated from a residential dwelling.
   EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. Whenever the term is used it includes binding,
contractual commitments to make future expenditures, as well as any other
substantial changes in position.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit.
For the purposes of this chapter such persons may include gratuitous guests and
domestic servants employed on the same premises. Four or fewer unrelated adults
are considered a FAMILY.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A facility which provides resident care for four or fewer
individuals of whom one or more are unrelated, who for various reasons cannot
reside with their families or independently. Service and supervision are
provided according to the individual needs. FAMILY CARE HOMES are considered
single-family dwellings, and are regulated as such.
   FINDING. A determination or conclusion based on the evidence presented and
prepared by a hearings body in support or its decision.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration as having a 1% chance of flooding in any given year.
   GAME ROOM. The commercial use of electronic/ mechanical games, bingo/card
tables and the like where three or more such games or tables are located on a
premises. A lesser number at a commercial establishment shall be considered
accessory to a permitted commercial use.
   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL AND PUBLIC. A structure or land area where the principal
use is for the storage of vehicles for compensation.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or space used as an accessory to or a part of
the main building permitted in any district that provides storage space for
motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation or service for profit is in
any way conducted, unless specifically allowed by this chapter.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total habitable or occupiable floor area enclosed
within a building.
   GROUP CARE HOME. A facility which provides resident care for five or more,
but less than 21, children, adolescents or adults who, for various reasons
cannot reside with their families or independently. Adult supervised care is
provided, as well as a program of service in a home setting. This category is
limited to uses licensed or supervised by a federal, state or county human
services agency; and includes uses such as foster homes, half-way houses,
resident schools and battered spouse centers.
   GUN RANGE, INDOOR. A fully enclosed building or part of a fully enclosed
building designated and operated by a person for the shooting of firearms and
not available for that use by the general public without payment of a fee,
membership contribution, or dues, or by invitation of an authorized person. The
building shall have safeguards in place to prevent any projectile from exiting
the building and continued to be maintained as long as the building is utilized
as an indoor gun range.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a residential dwelling for gainful
employment that is clearly incidental to the principal residential use, §§
157.045 through
157.052.
   HOSPITALITY HOUSE. A facility which provides temporary sleeping and dining
accommodations; operates completely on donations and gifts from guests and
friends; does not exceed 25 sleeping rooms; and is operated for the use of
patients, relatives and supporting friends referred by a hospital for patients
receiving treatment at a hospital in the city.
   HOTEL, MOTEL. A building or group of buildings or other structure used,
maintained, advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where
sleeping accommodations are available for compensation to transient or
permanent guests or tenants, and in which ten or more rooms are furnished for
the accommodation of such guests. Such facilities may have one or more dining
rooms or restaurants where meals are served to such transients or permanent
guests. Sleeping accommodations and dining rooms or restaurants, if existing,
shall be located in the same building or buildings in connection therewith.
Gift shops, lounges and personal services are often incidental accessories to
hotels and motels.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals normally and traditionally considered PETS. This
classification does not include animals kept, raised and bred for commercial
purposes, except the incidental breeding and littering/whelping/birthing of
such animals for fee or subsequent sale. This classification does not include
animals normally and traditionally considered farm animals, such as horses,
poultry and bees; and does not include undomesticated animals.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. A structure illuminated by an external light
directed primarily toward such structure. Such illumination shall be shielded
that no direct rays from the light are visible elsewhere than on the lot where
said illumination occurs.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, designed to be self-propelled, which, by
virtue of broken or missing component parts, is no longer capable of self-
propulsion; and remaining in such condition for more than 30 days.
   INTENSITY. The degree to which land is used. While frequently used
synonymously with density, intensity has a somewhat broader meaning, referring
to levels of concentration or activity in uses such as residential, commercial,
industrial, recreation or parking.
   LANDSCAPING. Changing, rearranging or adding to the original vegetation or
scenery of a lot to produce an aesthetic effect appropriate for the use to
which the land is put. It may include reshaping the land by moving the earth,
as well as preserving the original vegetation or adding vegetation.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles. Required off-street loading space is not to be
included as off-street parking space in computation of required off-street
parking space.
   LOT. Includes the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   LOT COVERAGE. A ratio, expressed in percent, of the area of a zoning lot
occupied by principal and accessory structures/uses in relation to the total
lot area.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line,
measured from the midpoint of the front lot line to the midpoint of the rear
lot line.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The frontage, or front, of a lot is defined as the side
abutting the street. For the purposes of determining yard requirements on
corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated by §§
157.035 through
157.052.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The rear lot line is that opposite to the front lot line.
Where lot lines are irregular, the rear lot line shall be assumed to be a line
not less than 20 feet long, lying within the lot and parallel to the front lot
line at its midpoint.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. The distance along a lot boundary which connects the front
and rear lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Clerk of Boyd County, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES.
      (1)   The diagram (below) illustrates terminology used in this chapter
with reference to corner lots, interior lots, double frontage lots and through
lots; in the diagram a CORNER LOT (A) is defined as a lot located at the
intersection of two or more streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or
streets shall be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from the
foremost points of the side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at
an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. See lot marked (A-1) in the
diagram. An INTERIOR LOT (B) is defined as a lot other than a corner lot with
only one frontage on a street. A THROUGH LOT (C) is defined as a lot other than
a corner lot with a frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two
streets may be referred to as double frontage lots. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT (D)
is defined as a lot on which the frontage is at right angles or approximately
right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees to the general pattern in
the area.
      (2)   A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot (A-D in the
diagram), and interior lot (B-D) or a through lot (C-D). (See illustration.)
      (3)   This illustrates the basic types of lots.
         (a)   A = Corner lot;
         (b)   B = Interior lot;
         (c)   C = Through (or double frontage) lot; and
         (d)   D = Reversed frontage lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured at
right angles to the depth and at the required front yard setback line.
   LOT, ZONING LOT. For the purposes of this chapter, a zoning lot is a parcel
of land for use and development, of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for its use, coverage, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such lots shall have frontage on an
improved public street and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
      (3)   A combination of complete lots or record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of records; and
      (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any lots be created which do not meet
requirements of this chapter.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS. Marijuana as defined in KRS 218A.010 when cultivated,
harvested, processed, produced, transported, dispensed, distributed, sold,
possessed or used in accordance with KRS 218B. This definition includes
medicinal cannabis, products and raw, plant material; but does not include
industrial hemp or industrial hemp products as defined in KRS 260.850.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS CULTIVATOR.
      (1)   A business that is licensed in compliance with KRS 218B to:
         (a)   Acquire, possess, plant, cultivate, raise, harvest, trim or
store cannabis seeds, seedlings, plants or raw plant material;
         (b)   Deliver, transport, transfer, supply, or sell raw plant material
or related supplies to other licensed cannabis business in this state; and
         (c)   Sell cannabis seeds or seedlings to similar entities that are
licensed to cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction.
      (2)   MEDICINAL CANNABIS CULTIVATORS are regulated by KRS 218B in four
tiers, as follows:
         (a)   A Tier I cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
2,500 square feet;
         (b)   A Tier II cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
10,000 square feet;
         (c)   A Tier III cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
25,000 square feet; and
         (d)   A Tier IV cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
50,000 square feet.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A business that is licensed in compliance
with KRS 218B to:
      (1)   Acquire or possess medicinal cannabis from a cultivator, processor
or producer in this state;
      (2)   Acquire or , possess medicinal cannabis accessories or educational
materials;
      (3)   Supply, sell, dispense, distribute or deliver medicinal cannabis,
medicinal cannabis accessories, and educational material to cardholders or
other dispensaries;
      (4)   Sell cannabis seeds to similar entities that are licensed to
cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction; or
      (5)   Acquire, accept, or receive medicinal cannabis products from a
cardholder pursuant to KRS 218B.110.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS PROCESSOR. A business that is licensed in compliance with
KRS 218B to:
      (1)   Acquire or purchase raw plant material from a cultivator, processor
or producer in this state;
      (2)   Possess, process, prepare, manufacture, manipulate, blend or
package medicinal cannabis;
      (3)   Transfer, transport, supply or sell medicinal cannabis and related
supplies to other cannabis businesses in this state; or
      (4)   Sell cannabis seeds or seedlings to similar entities that are
licensed to cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS PRODUCER. A business that is licensed in compliance with
KRS 218B to:
      (1)   Acquire, possess, plant, cultivate; raise; harvest; trim; or store
cannabis seeds, seedlings, plants, or raw plant material;
      (2)   Deliver, transport, transfer, supply, or sell raw plant material,
medicinal cannabis products, or related supplies to other licensed cannabis
businesses in this state;
      (3)   Sell cannabis seeds or seedlings to similar entities that are
licensed to cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction;
      (4)   Acquire or purchase raw plant material from a cultivator in this
state; or
      (5)   Possess, process, prepare, manufacture, manipulate, blend or
package medicinal cannabis.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A business that is licensed
in compliance with KRS 218B to:
      (1)   Acquire or possess medicinal cannabis obtained from cardholders or
cannabis business in this state;
      (2)   Return the medicinal cannabis to cardholders or cannabis business
in this state;
      (3)   Transport medicinal cannabis that was produced by cannabis
businesses in this state;
      (4)   Produce or sell approved educational materials related to the use
of medicinal cannabis;
      (5)   Produce, sell or transport equipment or materials other than
medicinal cannabis, including, but not limited to, lab equipment and packaging
materials that are used by cannabis businesses and cardholders, to cardholders
or cannabis businesses licensed in compliance with KRS 218B;
      (6)   Test medicinal cannabis produced in this state, including testing
for cannabinoid content, pesticides, mold, contamination, vitamin E acetate and
other prohibited additives;
      (7)   Train cardholders and cannabis business agents;
      (8)   Receive compensation for actions allowed under KRS 218B.125; and
      (9)   Engage in any noncannabis-related business activities that are not
otherwise prohibited or restricted by state law.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A system of describing and identifying land by measures
(metes) and direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference such as
a monument or other marker.
   MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT. A movable or portable dwelling over
32 feet in length and over eight feet wide, constructed to be transported on
its own chassis and designed without a permanent foundation, whether or not a
permanent foundation is subsequently provided, which may include one or more
components that can be retracted for transporting purposes and subsequently
expanded for additional capacity, or two or more units separately transportable
but designed to be joined into one integral unit.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land under single ownership which has
been planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for dwelling
purposes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground, within a mobile home park, designed to
accommodate one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. That part of an individual mobile home space reserved for
the placement of the mobile home and additions to attachments thereto.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed with one or more modules which are
prefabricated and hauled to the site that are capable of producing a dwelling
which is indistinguishable from conventionally built homes and which meets the
construction requirements of the Kentucky Building Code, as amended.
   MOTEL. See definition of HOTEL.
   NAMEPLATE. A nonelectrical sign identifying only the name, occupation and/or
profession of the occupant of premises on which the sign is located. For
residential structures, a NAMEPLATE may identify the name of the owner or
occupant and/or property numbers. Maximum area of a NAMEPLATE shall not exceed
two square feet per occupant. If a larger or more than one NAMEPLATE is
necessary, the total square footage allowed shall not exceed eight square feet
per building.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter or
any amendment to this chapter (and not created for the purpose of evading the
restrictions of this chapter) that cannot meet the minimum area or lot width
requirements of the district in which the lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this chapter, or amendment thereto, and
would be inconsistent with any applicable new regulations of the district in
which it is located if completed as proposed or planned.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter as of the effective date of its adoption, or amendment thereto, or any
sign erected after the effective date of this chapter, or amendment thereto,
which does not comply with all of its provisions.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective date
of this chapter or any amendment to thereto, an existing lot or structure or
use of an existing lot or structure does not conform to one or more of the
regulations applicable to the district in which the lot or structure is
located. Among other possibilities, a NONCONFORMING SITUATION may arise because
a lot does not meet minimum area requirements, because structures do not
satisfy maximum height or minimum floor-space limitation, because the
relationship between existing buildings and the land (in such matters as
density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with the ordinance, or
because land or buildings are used for purposes made unlawful by the ordinance.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building or structure which is being used for a
conforming use, but which does not meet the requirements of this chapter or
amendment thereto.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. The term also
refers to the activities that constitute the use made of the property.
   NURSING, CONVALESCENT HOME. An institution, which is advertised, announced
or maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing nursing or
convalescent care for persons unrelated to the license. A NURSING HOME is a
home for chronic or convalescent patients who, on admission are (not as a rule)
acutely ill and who do not usually require special facilities, such as an
operating room, X-ray facilities, laboratory facilities or obstetrical
facilities. A NURSING HOME provides care for persons who have remedial ailments
or other ailments, for which continuing medical and skilled nursing care is
indicated; who, however, are not ailing enough to require general hospital
care. Nursing care is their primary need, but they will require continuing
medical supervision. A major factor which distinguishes NURSING HOMES is that
the residents will require the individualization of continued and routine
medical care.
   NUISANCE. Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property,
endangers personal health or safety, or is offensive to the senses.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter, including any amendments, unless otherwise
indicated. Whenever the effective date of this chapter is referred to, the
reference includes the effective date of any amendment to it.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any sign or billboard which directs attention
to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not conducted, sold or
offered on the premises where the sign is located.
   OUTDOOR (OUTSIDE) STORAGE. The placement of any item outside of an enclosed
building for a period of more than 48 hours shall be considered OUTDOOR
STORAGE. In the instance of vehicles, OUTDOOR STORAGE shall in addition mean
the routine and reoccurring (more than twice a week) parking of such vehicle
for more than six hours at a time.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, lessee, receiver, trustee, guardian,
or personal representative, holding legal title or right to occupy or carry on
business in a structure or any facility. Where there is more than one owner, as
defined, their duties and obligations under this chapter are joint, and
several.
   PARCEL. A lot, or contiguous group of lots in single ownership or under
single control, and usually considered a unit for purposes of development.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. For the purposes of this chapter, consists of a
space adequate for parking an automobile for the public right-of-way with room
for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a
public street or alley and maneuvering room.
   PAVING. The installation of an all-weather hard surface material that must
be asphalt or concrete. Gravel or stone of any type is not permitted as a final
surface material.
   PERMANENT MAKEUP. A tattoo, whether permanent, semipermanent or temporary,
by someone other than a licensed physician, which includes, but is not limited
to, eyebrows, eyelids, lips, and other parts of the body for beauty marks, hair
imitation, lash enhancement or areola repigmentation. This term includes any
procedures whether referred to as, but not limited to, “permanent makeup”,
“microdermapigmentation”, “micropigment implantation”, “microblading”, “micro-
needling with the use of pigment”, “dermagraphics”, “cosmetic tattooing” or any
other similar procedures but shall not include “fine line tattooing”. For the
purposes of these zoning regulations, application of permanent makeup shall not
be considered an adult use.
   PERMITTED USE. A use by right which is specifically authorized in a
particular zoning district. It is contrasted with a conditional use which is
authorized only if certain requirements are met and after review and approval
by the Board of Zoning Adjustment or other public body.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
corporation, trust and company, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. A land use activity where, for compensation, a customer
receives services of a personal, as opposed to a professional, or retail
nature. PERSONAL SERVICE is distinguished by the customer obtaining a household
or bodily service; and such activities include, among others: barber,
cosmetologist, manicurist, hairdresser, individual tailoring, tanning salon and
permanent makeup.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A form of development usually characterized
by a unified site design for a number of housing units, clustering buildings;
and providing common open space, density increases, and a mix of building types
and land uses. It permits the planning of a project and the calculation of
densities over the entire development, rather than on an individual lot-by-lot
basis.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The public agency established by city ordinance to
prepare a comprehensive plan and to evaluate proposed changes in land use,
either by public or private developers, for conformance with the plan. The
PLANNING COMMISSION hears, deliberates and make recommendations to City
Commission on all zoning ordinance and map amendments.
   PLAT. A map showing the location, boundaries and ownership of individual
properties.
   PLOT. A term referring to a piece of usable property, often used
synonymously with parcel or lot.
   PREMISES. A single piece of property as conveyed in a deed, or a lot or a
number of adjacent lots on which is situated a land use, a building or group of
buildings designed as a unit, or on which a building or a group of buildings
are to be constructed.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building containing the
principal use of the lot.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
intended to serve.
   PRIVATE DRIVE, ROAD OR STREET. Any road or street, within a mobile home
park, large scale multi-family housing project, shopping center, industrial
park or planned unit development which is not publicly maintained and is used
for access by the occupants of the development, their guests and the general
public.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICE. A land use activity where, for compensation, a
customer receives the services of a “professional”, as opposed to a personal or
retail, nature. PROFESSIONAL SERVICE is distinguished by the long and intensive
academic preparation of the provider.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage system which is owned by the city, by any other unit
of government or authority, or by a private corporation, person or association,
and which is designed to serve uses locating along existing lines or within the
service area of the system, should additional collection lines be constructed.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any approved system furnishing potable
(drinkable) water for ten or more residences or businesses or a combination of
residences and businesses.
   RESTRICTED USE CLASSIFICATION. Language in KRS Chapter 100, § 253, referring
to nonconforming uses.
   RETAIL. The business of selling personal property directly to the ultimate
consumer for any purpose other than resale.
   RETIREMENT HOME, CONGREGATE LIVING CENTER. A multi-family residential
complex with individual apartments, which offers both independent and assisted
independent living quarters for the elderly. This classification differs from a
nursing home in the fact that it has individual apartments, even though common
kitchen, dining and recreation areas may be available. Nursing care may be
available under this classification, on a limited and emergency-rather than
routine-basis.
   REZONING. An amendment to or a change in this chapter. REZONINGS can take on
three forms as follows:
      (1)   A comprehensive revision or modification of the zoning text and
map;
      (2)   A text change in zone requirements; and
      (3)   A change in the map; such as, the zoning designation of a
particular parcel or parcels.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof which contains rooms designed
or intended to be used for residential occupancy by not less than three nor
more than nine individuals for compensation.
   SETBACK. See YARD.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed,
and managed as a unit and related in location, size, and type of shops to the
needs or the trade area that the unit services. Individual businesses within a
shopping center may be serviced by private drives when approved by the city.
   SIGN. Any structure or device, or part thereof, painted on, or represented
on a building or other structure, upon which is displayed or included any
letter, figure, design, symbol, trademark, decoration, devices or
representations used as, or which is in the nature of, any announcement,
direction, advertisement, or any other attention directing device.
   SIGN, CANOPY, MARQUEE OR AWNING. A sign other than a projecting sign
designated on, or suspended under, a canopy, marquee or awning and identifying
the name or address of a building or an establishment contained therein.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign erected which is wholly independent of any
building for support. All such signs shall be permanently affixed to or
constructed upon the lot where they are located.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The height of a sign structure as measured from the street
grade which a zoning lot fronts upon or from the ground level where a sign
support is located (whichever is greater) to the uppermost portion of the sign
structure, including any embellishment thereto.
   SIGN, INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. A sign illuminated by an external light
directed primarily toward such sign and so shielded that no direct rays from
the light are visible elsewhere than on the lot where said illumination occurs.
   SIGN, NUMBER AND SURFACE AREA.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the NUMBER of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a
random manner without organized relationship of elements, or where there is
reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each shall be considered
to be a single sign.
      (2)   The SURFACE AREA of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within a regular geometric form or combination of regular geometric
forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Architectural trim and structure members not
bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of SURFACE
AREA.
      (3)   Freestanding, suspended and projecting signs shall be computed on
the basis of one surface only, provided the opposite surface identical in size
and shape, not necessarily in copy or advertisement less than 90 degrees V-
shaped or back-to-back.
      (4)   The allowable SIGN AREA computed by applying the square feet/linear
feet multiplier shall cover all regulated signs on the building or structure.
   SIGN, MOBILE. A temporary sign having the capability of being readily
transported from one site to another.
   SIGN, OFFICIAL, PUBLIC. Any sign, symbol or device erected and maintained by
a public agency for the purpose of informing or guiding the public.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, BILLBOARD. Any sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service or entertainment not conducted, sold or offered on
the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign other than a wall sign which is attached to and
projects more than 12 inches from a building face or wall.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon, against or directly above a roof which
extends above the ridge; or extends above the parapet of a building.
   SIGN, WALL, FLAT-MOUNTED. Any sign attached to, or erected against the wall,
parapet of a building or structure, or which is an integral part of the
building or structure. No such sign shall project more than one foot from the
building, and not above any portion of the roof line. The maximum one foot
projection may be within a public right-of-way.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
zoning lot as required by §§
157.160 through
157.166.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic
and pedestrian circulation. The following classification shall apply:
      (1)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE (ARTERIAL). A traffic artery designed primarily
to carry heavy volumes of through vehicular traffic as shown on the major
street plan.
      (2)   MINOR THOROUGHFARE (ARTERIAL). A street designed to carry high
volumes of vehicular traffic as shown on the major street plan.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designed to carry medium volumes of
vehicular traffic, provide access to the major street system and collect the
vehicular traffic from the intersecting minor streets.
      (4)   LOCAL STREET. A street designed primarily to provide vehicular
access to properties abutting it.
      (5)   CULS-DE-SAC. A street intersecting another street at one end and
permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around at the other.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or minor service street which
parallels and is immediately adjacent to a major street or highway, and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic and
control of intersections with major traffic streets.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground; may be
permanent or temporary. STRUCTURE includes the word BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels; for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, or
building development, or if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land; provided that a division of land for agricultural use and not
involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision. The term includes re-
subdivision and when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of
subdivision or to the land subdivided; any division or redivision of land into
parcels of less than one acre occurring within 12 months following a division
of the same land shall be deemed a SUBDIVISION within the meaning of this
definition.
   TATTOOING. The act of producing scars on a human being or the act of
inserting pigment under the surface of the skin of a human being, by pricking
with a needle or otherwise, to produce indelible marks or figures visible
through the skin, including the application of permanent makeup. For the
purposes of these zoning regulations, the application of permanent makeup shall
be considered a personal service whereas tattooing shall be considered an adult
use.
   TOURIST HOME. See ROOMING HOUSE.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a piece of land or its buildings is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Includes the words INTENDED, DESIGNED, DESIGNATED or
ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED.
   VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property, and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for
height, area, and size of a structure, or size of yards and open spaces;
establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed
by variance, nor shall a VARIANCE be granted because of the presence of
nonconformities in the zoning district or use in an adjoining zoning district.
   WAREHOUSING, WAREHOUSE. The storage of goods of any type without retailing
on a lot or within a structure; the structure and facilities for such use.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods or merchandise to retailers or jobbers for
resale to the ultimate consumer.
   YARD. A required open space which shall not be occupied or obstructed by a
structure or portion thereof with the exception of minor uses or structures
permitted under provisions of this chapter. See §§
157.035 through
157.052.
   YARD, FRONT AND DEPTH. A yard extending across the front of a lot which is
bounded by the front lot line, the two side lot lines and a line extending
along the yard setback permitted on the lot. Depth of the required front yards
shall be measured along a line or lines drawn perpendicular to the front lot
line.
   YARD, REAR and DEPTH. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between
inner side yard lines and the rear property line. Depth of required rear yards
shall be measured along a line or lines drawn perpendicular to the rear lot
line.
   YARD, SIDE and WIDTH. A yard extending from the rear line of the required
front yard to the rear property line and being parallel to the side lot lines.
Width of required side yards shall be measured along a line drawn perpendicular
to the side lot line on the side of the lot in question, from the front yard
setback line to the rear yard setback line.
   ZONING. A police power measure, enacted primarily by general purpose units
of local government, in which the community is divided into districts or zones
within which permitted and special uses are established; as are regulations
governing lot size, building bulk, placement, and other development standards.
Requirements vary from district to district, but they must be uniform within
districts. The zoning ordinance consists of two parts: a text and a map.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons employed by the city to enforce
this chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area of the city designated in this chapter and
delineated on the zoning map, in which requirements for the use of land and
building and development standards are prescribed. Within each district, all
requirements are uniform.
   ZONING LOT. See LOT.
   ZONING MAP. The map delineating the boundaries of districts which, along
with the zoning text, comprises the zoning ordinance. The OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 157.003) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 71-1988, passed
8-2-1988; Ord. 56-1998, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 22-2001, passed 2-15-2001; Ord.
158-2009, passed 11-19-2009; Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012; Ord. 45-2013,
passed 5-16-2013; Ord. 77-2016, passed 6-23-2016; Ord. 100-2017, passed 10-12-
2017; Ord. 39-2018, passed 3-8-2018; Ord. 115, 2021, passed 8-26-2021; Ord. 21,
2024, passed 2-8-2024; Ord. 22, 2024, passed 2-8-2024; Ord. 113, 2024, passed
6-28-2024)
§ 157.004 GREATER RESTRICTIONS SHALL APPLY.
   Whenever regulations or restrictions imposed by this chapter are either more
or less restrictive than regulations or restrictions imposed by any
governmental authority though legislation, rule or regulations, those rules or
restrictions which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 157.004) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.005 ADMINISTRATIVE STANDARDS.
   In the administration of this chapter, when it is necessary or desirable to
make any administrative decision, then, unless other standards are provided in
this chapter, the decision shall be made in harmony with the spirit and purpose
of this chapter, and not injurious to the surrounding neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 157.005) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.006 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be held to be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, and particularly the following.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, altered or
moved except in conformity with applicable regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Off-street parking or loading space required in connection with any
structure and/or use for the purpose of complying with this chapter shall not
be part of off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building/use unless specifically permitted.
   (C)   No yard or zoning lot existing on the effective date of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein, unless such yard or zoning lot is reduced by governmental acquisition
for a public purpose. Yards or zoning lots created after the effective date of
this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
chapter.
   (D)   Every principal single-family residential building hereafter erected,
altered or moved shall have provided and continuously maintained for it a
zoning lot as herein defined. In no case shall there be more than one single-
family building and its permissible accessory structures on a single zoning
lot, except as specifically authorized by other provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   No principal building, structure or land use may occupy a zoning lot
unless the zoning lot fronts on a public street, except as specifically
authorized by other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 157.006) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
§ 157.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into the following zoning districts with
the designations and purposes listed below.
   (B)   The districts included in this chapter are adopted for the promotion
and protection of the public health, safety, morals and/or general welfare. The
purpose of each district is to provide specific regulations for use of land and
control of other land development features such as lot size, lot width and
yards, maximum lot coverage, and height of structures. The purposes of each
district is further defined as follows.
      (1)   R-12 Residential/Low Density. These districts are composed
primarily of areas occupied by or suitable for one-family dwellings on large
lots, resulting in low density development. The district regulations are
designed to protect the residential character of the districts by prohibiting
commercial activities, and to encourage a suitable environment for family life.
      (2)   R-6 Residential/Medium Density. These districts are composed
primarily of areas occupied by or suitable for one-family dwellings at a medium
density. The district regulations are designed to protect the residential
character of the districts by limiting commercial activities, and to encourage
a suitable environment for family life.
      (3)   R-5 Residential/Medium Density. These districts are composed
primarily of areas occupied by or suitable for either one-family or a mixture
of one-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings in a medium density range.
The district regulations are designed to encourage the construction of mixed
single- and multi-family units, and to protect the residential character of the
areas by limiting commercial activities, to encourage a suitable environment
for family life, to prevent overcrowding of the land by requiring certain
minimum yard and other open spaces for all buildings, to avoid excessive
population density by requiring a certain minimum building site area for each
dwelling unit, and to protect the abutting and surrounding areas by requiring
certain minimum yard and area standards.
      (4)   R-4 Residential/High Density. These districts are composed mainly
of areas occupied by or suitable for high density multi-family uses located in
proximity to business, service or employment centers. These districts may also
contain public and semi-public uses to support high density residential
development. The district regulations are designed to encourage and protect the
high density residential character of the districts by limiting the permitted
uses primarily to dwellings and requiring certain minimum yard and area
standards.
      (5)   B-1 Neighborhood Business. These districts are composed of land and
structures occupied by or suitable for uses supplying retail goods and services
to surrounding residential neighborhoods. Often located on a thoroughfare or
near the intersection of two thoroughfares, these districts are small and
conveniently located for the areas they serve. The district regulations are
designed to permit the controlled development of the districts to protect the
abutting and surrounding residential areas.
      (6)   B-2 General Business. These districts are composed of land and
structures occupied by or suitable for uses supplying a wide range of retail
goods and services. Usually located on a thoroughfare or highway or near the
intersection of principal thoroughfares or highways, these districts are
relatively large and within convenient distance of the area they serve. The
district regulations are designed to allow commercial development while
protecting the abutting and surrounding residential areas.
      (7)   B-3 Downtown Business. These districts are composed of land and
structures occupied by or suitable for uses furnishing the wide range of retail
goods and services required by residents of the regional trade area. Located at
the convergence of the principal thoroughfares and highways, the downtown is
the focus of commerce and administrative business of the trade area. The
district regulations are designed to permit further development of the district
for its purpose in a compact and convenient arrangement of uses and structures
that are urban in character.
      (8)   I-1 Light Industrial. These districts are composed of land and
structures occupied by or suitable for light manufacturing, wholesaling,
warehousing and similar uses. Uses located in these districts should have a
minimum negative environmental impact (including, but not limited to noise,
glare and vibration) on adjoining properties. Located for convenient access to
present and future thoroughfares, highways and railway lines, these districts
are usually separated from residential areas by business districts or by
natural barriers; if they are adjacent to residential areas, an artificial or
natural separation is required. The district regulations are designed to allow
a range of light industrial activities subject to limitations designed to
protect nearby residential and business districts.
      (9)   I-2 Heavy Industrial. These districts are composed of land and
structures occupied by or suitable for heavy manufacturing and related
activities. Located for convenient access to present and future arterial
thoroughfares, highways, and railway lines, these districts are usually
separated from residential areas by business districts or natural barriers; if
they are adjacent to residential areas, an artificial or natural separation is
required. The district regulations are designed to promote the development of
the districts for industrial use subject to conditions necessary for the mutual
benefit of the uses and the city.
      (10)   P-H Public/Hospital. These districts are designed to support the
unique development needs associated with large scale health care institutions.
Hospitals and related medical service offices, support commercial uses, and
accessory parking facilities are compatible uses in these districts. When these
districts adjoin residential areas, provisions are included to preserve the
privacy and uses of dwelling units.
      (11)   R-E Residential Estate. These districts are composed of land and
structures occupied by or suitable for one-family dwellings on very large lots.
The regulations are designed to accommodate residential development
opportunities for those who desire low density estate living in more remote or
topographically difficult locations for urban development; and who are willing
to assume the costs of providing many of their own services and amenities. The
regulations further are designed to minimize disruption to natural features
such as steep slopes and unstable soils; and to protect the estate character of
the district by prohibiting commercial uses and heavy traffic generators.
(Prior Code, § 157.015) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 9-1993, passed
1-29-1993)
§ 157.021 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS IN ANNEXED AREAS.
   Where by reason of annexation the area included in the city is increased,
that new part of the city shall be classified as R-12 Residential/Low Density
on the effective date of the annexation. For the effective date of such
annexation, the Planning Commission shall have 45 days to conduct a zoning
sturdy of such area and recommend a zoning map amendment to the City
Commission. After the City Commission has acted upon such recommendation, or
absent a Planning Commission recommendation within the 45-day period, any
property owner may request a zoning map amendment in an annexed area. No other
zoning map amendment requests shall be processed during this 45-day period in
an annexed area.
(Prior Code, § 157.016) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.022 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts shall be as shown
on the map accompanying Ord. 101-1986 and made a part hereof, entitled “Zoning
Map of the City of Ashland.” The zoning map and the authorized notations,
references and amendments thereto, and other information shown thereon, are
hereby made a part of this chapter. The zoning map, properly attested by the
signatures of the Mayor and City Clerk with the seal of the municipality
affixed, shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk and shall be
available for inspection by the public.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter governing within each type of district
the use of land and buildings, dimensional requirements and other matters as
are hereinafter set forth, are hereby established and declared to be in effect
upon all land included within the boundaries of each and every district as
shown upon said map, including water areas and rights-of-ways.
   (C)   In the creation of the respective districts, consideration was given
to the existing character of each district and its peculiar suitability for
particular future uses, and with a view to enhance the value of property
interests and encouraging the most appropriate and beneficial use of land
throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 157.017) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.023 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines shall be
construed to be such lot lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following streets, alleys or
other transportation rights-of-way shall be construed to be midway between the
rights-of-way lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the city limits shall
be construed as following such city limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be the centerline of the railroad right-of-way.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore lines, it
shall be construed as moving with the actual shore lines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as following the centerlines of streams, rivers,
canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (G)   In unsubdivided property or where a district boundary divides a lot,
the location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions,
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (H)   Where any street, road or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to the portion of such street, road or alley added to the property by
virtue of such vacation or abandonment.
   (I)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (F) of this section, shall be so construed.
   (J)   If an area is not shown on the official zoning map as being included
in any district, it shall be deemed to be in the R-12 Residential/Low Density
District.
   (K)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall interpret the intent of the map as to location of district boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 157.018) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.024 AMENDMENT OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   If, in accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapter 100 and of this
chapter, changes are made in districts boundaries or other matters portrayed on
the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Such changes shall be entered on the zoning map promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the City Commission, together with a reference
to a more complete descriptive record of such changes which shall be kept as a
permanent record in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Entries on the zoning map shall be noted by index number. The number
shall appear again on the map in a space provided, that correctly specifies the
zoning case number and the date the change was approved.
   (C)   No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map, or
matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons
shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Zoning map amendments shall comply with the provisions of §§
157.260 through
157.267.
(Prior Code, § 157.019) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 157.035 GENERAL YARD REGULATIONS.
   Every part of a required yard shall remain open, with the following
exceptions:
   (A)   Sills, belt courses, buttresses, chimneys, ornamental features and
eaves, but not porches, may project into a required side yard not more than 12
inches, and into a required front or rear yard not more than four feet. A four-
foot side yard shall be maintained beyond the projection;
   (B)   Open or enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies may project into a required yard not more than four feet. A four-foot
side yard shall be maintained beyond the projection;
   (C)   Unenclosed carports which are attached to a dwelling may extend to
within four feet of any side property line (not a corner lot line). This
distance shall be measured from the furthest projection of the carport to the
lot line;
   (D)   Eaves and awnings attached to existing structures for solar energy
and/or protection, may extend into a required yard not more than four feet. A
four-foot side yard shall be maintained beyond the projection; and
   (E)   Accessory structures and uses may in certain instances be located in
required yards. See §§
157.040 and
157.041.
(Prior Code, § 157.030) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.036 FRONT YARD REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all districts.
   (A)   Where lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage in any block face
are already developed with buildings whose front yards are less than the
minimum required front yard as specified in this chapter, the required front
yard may be reduced so that a structure may be erected, reconstructed, altered
or moved so as to project to the average front building line established by
adjacent existing buildings. This provision likewise applies to side yards on
corner lots, except that the intersection visibility requirements of §
157.039 shall be met.
   (B)   The front yard requirements as specified in the table of dimensional
requirements (§
157.208) shall apply to each street frontage of a through lot, and each shall
be considered a front yard.
   (C)   The front yard requirements as specified in the table of dimensional
requirements (§
157.208) shall apply to each street frontage of a corner lot, and each shall be
considered a front yard.
(Prior Code, § 157.031) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.037 SIDE YARD REGULATIONS.
   If a structure is not required to provide a side yard by this chapter, but
is not placed on the side lot line, then the side yard provided shall not be
less than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 157.032) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.038 FRONT OR STREET SIDE YARDS IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Unless a front yard of a greater depth is required for a nonresidential
zoning district, any lot in a nonresidential district that abuts a residential
zoning district shall have a front yard setback at least equal to the
requirements of the abutting residential district, for the entire width of the
nonresidential zoning lot or 200 feet (whichever is less).
(Prior Code, § 157.033) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.039 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY; SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   (A)   To ensure that structures, signs and landscaping do not constitute a
driving and pedestrian hazard, a “sight triangle” shall be observed at all
street intersections, and all intersection of streets with railroad tracks.
Within the sight triangle, no obstruction of any kind shall be permitted
between a height of two feet and eight feet above the mean elevation of the
street. The B-3 Downtown Business District shall be exempt from these
requirements because of large scale development, low traffic speeds and
adequate traffic controls.
   (B)   The sight triangle shall consist of the following; or other dimensions
having a similar effect when intersections are not 90 degrees.
      (1)   Intersecting streets shall have a sight triangle with two sides
being 15 feet along the abutting rights-of-way lines, measured from their point
of intersection, and the third side being a line connecting the ends of the
other two lines.
      (2)   A street intersecting a railroad track shall have sight triangle
with two sides being 25 feet along the abutting rights-of-way lines, from their
point of intersection, and the third side being a line connecting the other two
lines.
      (3)   A street intersecting a driveway shall have a sight triangle with
one side being 15 feet along the right-of-way edge, one side being ten feet
along the abutting driveway pavement, and the third side being a line
connecting the other two lines. Driveways to single- and two-family homes are
exempt from this provision.
(Prior Code, § 157.034) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.040 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES; RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Accessory structures and uses are permitted in any residential
district in connection with any use which is permitted. Accessory structures
and uses, as defined in §
157.003, shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A private garage or carport when not attached to the principal
structure;
      (2)   A structure for enclosed storage incidental to a permitted use;
      (3)   Satellite antennas and alternate energy devices;
      (4)   A private swimming pool and/or bath house;
      (5)   Statuary, arbors, trellises, awnings, canopies, barbecue equipment,
gazebos, flag poles, non-mechanical laundry drying equipment, terraces,
recreational equipment, fences, walls and hedges;
      (6)   Fallout shelters;
      (7)   Outdoor parking of trailers, recreational vehicles, boats and
campers;
      (8)   Personal passenger vehicles and their storage are exempt from
residential accessory use regulations. Disabled vehicles are subject to
division (B) of this section; and
      (9)   Within the R-E District only, accessory uses may also include
secondary dwelling units (guest house, caretaker’s quarters), for the
convenience and necessity of the principal residential use.
   (B)   In all residential districts, detached accessory structures and uses
are prohibited in required front yards, but may be located in a required rear
and side yard subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No accessory structure or use shall be located closer than ten feet
to any principal building, except as in division (A)(5) and (A)(7) of this
section.
      (2)   On through and corner lots, no accessory building or use shall
extend beyond the front yard setback required on the street frontage to the
rear/side of the principal structure, except as in division (A)(5) of this
section.
      (3)   No part of an accessory structure or use shall extend to within
four feet of any side or rear property line, except fences, walls and
vegetation.
      (4)   No fence, wall or hedge that obstructs sight shall be erected,
altered or placed in any required front yard to exceed a height of four feet
above grade.
   (C)   Outdoor storage of interior household furnishings or washing machines,
refrigerators and non-household items is not allowed in residential areas
unless specifically permitted by the Schedule of District Regulations or by the
Board of Adjustment as a conditional use.
   (D)   Signs, a special type of accessory use, shall be permitted as
specified in
Chapter 158.
   (E)   Outdoor storage of trucks and/or trailers larger than two ton capacity
is prohibited in residential zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 157.035) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 9-1993, passed
1-29-1993) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.041 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES; NONRESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Accessory structures and uses are permitted for any nonresidential
permitted principal use (as of right or conditionally). Accessory structures
and uses, as defined in §
157.003, shall include, but not be limited to, the following, unless
specifically prohibited in the Schedule of District Regulations or the Board of
Zoning Adjustment in the case of conditional uses:
      (1)   Outdoor storage, when specifically permitted as a right or
conditionally;
      (2)   Canopies, free standing or attached, for weather protection;
      (3)   Service station islands;
      (4)   Outdoor parking of trucks, buses and other large vehicles; and
      (5)   One dwelling unit for each nonresidential zoning lot, constructed
as an integral part of the principal nonresidential structure, for proprietor
or employee occupancy.
   (B)   For all nonresidential uses, accessory structures and uses shall be
excluded from required front yards, but may be located in the required rear or
side yard, provided the landscaping and buffer provisions of §§
157.085 through
157.091 are met.
   (C)   Off-street parking and paved service areas may be located in any
required yard of a nonresidential district lot, provided that the landscaping
and buffer requirements of §§
157.085 through
157.091 are met.
   (D)   Signs, a special type of accessory use, shall be permitted as
specified in Chapter 158.
(Prior Code, § 157.036) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.042 KEEPING OF ANIMALS; AGRICULTURAL USES.
   (A)   No animals other than household pets shall be permitted in any zoning
district unless specifically permitted.
   (B)   Where agricultural uses are permitted by this chapter, such activity
is exempt from building permits or certificates of occupancy, and dimensional
requirements, in accordance with KRS Chapter 100.203(4). Street setback lines
and floodplain regulations shall be observed. See §
157.003 for definitions of “Agricultural Use.”
(Prior Code, § 157.037) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.043 MANUFACTURED UNITS AS TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION OFFICES; NONRESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Manufactured units, such as mobile homes, may be used as
temporary construction offices when located on the same property as the
construction project. Such offices shall as closely as possible comply with the
yard requirements of the zoning district in which they are located. The unit
shall be removed immediately after completion of the construction.
      (2)   Manufactured units may be used as temporary offices while a project
is under construction/development, provided the following:
         (a)   Written approval is granted by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (b)   Approval shall be for six months only in the case of residential
development.
   (B)   Manufactured units, such as mobile homes may be used as temporary
nonresidential structures where such nonresidential uses are permitted by this
chapter. Nonresidential manufactured units usage shall comply with the
following provisions in order to protect the structure and neighboring
structures from fire and storm damage, and to protect the nature and
characteristics of the neighborhood.
      (1)   The unit shall be situated on the lot so as to meet all applicable
dimensional requirements, and in addition shall provide rear/side yards of at
least 15 feet.
      (2)   The unit shall be installed with its longest dimension parallel to
the lot frontage.
      (3)   A minimum of 15 feet shall separate the unit from other principal
or accessory buildings on the same lot.
      (4)   The unit shall meet the specifications of the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development, National Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards.
      (5)   Manufactured units as nonresidential structures shall not be
installed where such installation is in conflict with state or local fire
codes.
      (6)   No temporary nonresidential use of a manufactured unit shall be
permitted on a lot for longer than 12 consecutive months.
      (7)   When a temporary nonresidential use of a manufactured unit on a lot
has ended, 12 months shall elapse before another such unit (or use therefor) is
allowed on that lot.
      (8)   A manufactured unit used as a sales office on a lot which sells
similar units is exempt from division (B)(6) and (B)(7) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 157.038) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.044 TOWNHOUSE DWELLING UNITS.
   Where townhouse dwelling units are permitted as of right or conditionally by
this chapter (see §
157.207), the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Front yard, rear yard, and lot dimensions shall comply with §
157.208.
   (B)   Minimum side yards shall be 15 feet for townhouse end units, with zero
feet for interior units.
   (C)   Townhouse rows developed as a complex shall be separated by at least
20 feet end to end, and 30 feet in all other configurations.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage for a townhouse unit shall be 50%.
   (E)   No less than four, nor more than eight units shall be allowed in each
townhouse “row”.
   (F)   Townhouses shall be constructed without interior side yards; and no
windows, doors or other openings shall face the sides except at end units.
   (G)   Manufactured (mobile) homes shall not be considered townhouses in any
manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 157.039) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.045 ZERO LOT LINE UNITS.
   Where zero lot line dwelling units are permitted as of right or
conditionally by this chapter (§
157.207), the following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Front yard, rear yard and lot dimensions shall comply with §
157.208.
   (B)   Zero lot line units shall have no minimum yard requirements on one
side, with ten feet on the opposite side. If a yard is provided where none is
required, such yard shall be at least four feet wide. At least 15 feet shall
separate a zero lot line development side from adjacent property or street
lines.
   (C)   Maximum lot coverage for a zero lot line unit shall be 50%.
   (D)   No less than four units shall be allowed in a zero lot line
development.
   (E)   Zero lot line residences shall be constructed against the lot line on
one side of the lot; and no windows, doors or other openings shall face this
side. Where adjacent zero lot line units are not constructed against a common
lot line, the developer shall provide a perpetual wall maintenance easement of
four feet in width along the adjacent lot and parallel with such wall.
   (F)   Manufactured (mobile) homes shall not be considered zero lot line
units in any manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 157.040) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.046 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all zoning districts, unless stated
otherwise in this chapter.
   (A)   Chimneys, water tanks, penthouses, towers, scenery lofts, elevator
shafts, smokestacks, ornamental spires, wireless or broadcasting towers,
cupolas, domes, false mansards, parapet walls and similar structures and
necessary structural mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height 15
feet above the maximum building height indicated by §
157.208.
   (B)   In locations where adopted airport hazard zoning regulations are
applicable, the height of structures shall in addition comply with those
requirements.
   (C)   No other building or structure or appurtenance shall exceed the height
limits as set forth in §
157.208, unless the required depth/width of the yards in all directions shall
be increased one foot for each one foot of height in excess of the maximum
permitted by §
157.208 and further that the City Fire Department shall approve such maximum
height extensions where such would involve routine human occupancy or use.
(Prior Code, § 157.041) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.047 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   Where outdoor storage is permitted as a principal or accessory use, the
following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Storage of vehicles and household items in residential districts shall
comply with §
157.040(B).
   (B)   Storage of items in nonresidential districts (and nonresidential uses
in residential districts) shall be completely enclosed by a security fence at
least six feet in height. Where such storage area abuts or is within 100 feet
of a residential district, it shall be screened from view on residential
property. Passenger vehicle storage is exempt from this enclosure/ screening
requirement.
(Prior Code, § 157.042) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.048 OUTDOOR ILLUMINATION OF USES.
   Outdoor nonresidential lighting facilities and fixtures used to illuminate
signs, the exterior of structures, parking areas, or for other purposes shall
be so arranged that the source of light does not shine directly into adjacent
residential properties and does not interfere with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 157.043) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.049 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   Any construction and or land disturbing activity proposed to take place in a
designated flood hazard area requires a separate development permit, and is
controlled by the Chapter 152, Flood Damage Prevention.
(Prior Code, § 157.044) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.050 RIGHT-OF-WAY DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Any construction or other development or private land usage within the
public rights-of-way is prohibited unless specifically allowed by other
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The city recognizes that there are presently various parties using the
city’s public right-of-way. Those parties who have obtained city permission for
temporary use of the public right-of-way shall maintain any approvals granted
by the city. Such permission is subject to the terms of the individual
agreement and consistency with this chapter. Parties using the public right-of-
way without city approval receive no additional rights through this section.
      (1)   All changes to existing uses of right-of-way shall require city
permission. The zoning chapter remains effective. Permission is subject to a
written agreement as required by the Board. The Board authorizes the city
Manager to review requested use and recommend agreements to the Board.
      (2)   Upon recommendation of the City Manager, the Board may approve all
future agreements for use of right-of-way. Further, the City Manager may,
without Board action, approve a continued limited use of the right-of-way which
does not expand the existing use. The City Manager, in his or her discretion,
may require the applicant to execute documents which memorialize such use.
      (3)   Parties who are in arrears on any property taxes or other fees due
the city shall not receive permission for use of public rights-of-way. Also,
parties who maintain any property violating a Property Maintenance Code shall
not receive permission.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall establish administrative
procedures for the consistent enforcement of this section. These may include
application forms, a reasonable review procedure and approval of the Legal
Department of all agreements. The Division of Code Enforcement shall administer
this section.
(Prior Code, § 157.045) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 37-1995, passed
3-20-1995) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.051 MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT.
   In the B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business Zoning Districts, residential dwelling
units developed above or below the ground floor of commercial uses are
permitted, and are exempt from the dimensional and parking requirements of this
chapter. Such dwelling units shall comply with all other applicable housing and
development codes.
(Prior Code, § 157.046) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 116-1988, passed
10-18-1988) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.052 HOME OCCUPATION.
   Home occupations as defined in §
157.003 are permitted in all zoning districts, subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   The occupation or profession shall be conducted entirely within the
principal residential structure.
   (B)   No more than one person outside the resident family shall be employed
in the home occupation.
   (C)   There shall be no outside or accessory building storage; nor any
exterior display or other indication of the home occupation, except signs as
permitted by
Chapter 158.
   (D)   No more than 25% of the area of one floor of the principal residence
shall be devoted to the home occupation.
   (E)   The sale of products shall be limited to those manufactured on the
premises.
   (F)   The home occupation shall not involve the routine use of commercial
vehicles for delivery of materials to and from the premises.
   (G)   The home occupation shall be designed and operated so that customers
(if any) shall be limited to one at a time on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 157.047) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 157.065 INTENT.
   Within the districts established by this chapter and amendments that may
later be adopted there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and
characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter was adopted or
amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms
of this chapter or future amendment. It is the intent of this subchapter to
permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
necessarily encourage their survival. The city, however, desires that
nonconforming situations be maintained in standard condition until such time
that they can become conforming with this chapter. It is further the intent of
this subchapter that such situations shall not be made nonconforming to a
greater extent than exists at the time this chapter is adopted. To these ends,
the regulations of this subchapter encourage nonconforming situations to be
well maintained and to become more, rather than less, conforming over time.
(Prior Code, § 157.060) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.066 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Where the owner of a lot of record does not own and cannot reasonably
acquire sufficient adjacent land to enable conformance to the required open
space, yard and other requirements herein prescribed, such lot of record may be
used by such owner as a single- family residential building site; provided that
the required open space and other provisions conform as closely as possible to
the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. Parking,
landscaping, buffer and loading requirements shall be met in those instances of
new development or expansion of existing development; and four-foot side yards
shall be maintained.
(Prior Code, § 157.061) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.067 ENLARGEMENT OR EXTENSION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   Except as specifically provided below, it shall be unlawful for any person
to engage in any activity that causes an increase in the nonconformity.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any portion of a
complete building. However, a nonconforming use may not be extended to
additional buildings or to land outside the original building except in
accordance with §
157.070.
   (B)   Subject to §
157.070, a nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more
land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming.
   (C)   Physical alteration of structures or the placement of new structures
on open land are unlawful if they result in:
      (1)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming
use; and/or
      (2)   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions such
as yard requirements, height limitations, parking or density requirements.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) of this section, any structure used for a
single-family residential purposes and maintained as a nonconforming use may be
replaced with a similar structure of a larger size, so long as the replacement
does not create new nonconformities or increase the extent of existing
nonconformities with respect to yard and setback requirements. Division (D) is
subject to §
157.068.
   (E)   A structure that is nonconforming in any respect, or a structure that
is used in a nonconforming manner, may be reconstructed or replaced is
partially or totally destroyed, subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
increased, except that a larger single-family residence may replace smaller
one.
      (2)   The reconstructed structure may not be more nonconforming with
respect to dimensional restrictions such as yard, height, parking or density
requirements, except for single-family houses as provided for in division (E)
(1) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 157.062) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.068 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period of
180 calendar days, the property involved may thereafter be used only for
conforming purposes, unless the Board of Zoning Adjustment issues a
nonconformity permit to allow the same or another nonconforming use upon
finding all of the below:
      (1)   The nonconforming use has been discontinued for less than two
years;
      (2)   The discontinuance resulted from factors that, for all practical
purposes, were beyond the control of the person maintaining the nonconforming
situation; and
      (3)   The proposed use is not more nonconforming than the previous
nonconformity.
   (B)   For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a
nonconforming situation is lost pursuant to the provisions of this section, all
of the building, activities, and operations maintained on a lot are generally
to be considered as a whole. For example, the failure to rent one multi-family
unit shall not result in a loss of the right to rent that unit thereafter so
long as the multi-family building as a whole is continuously maintained. But if
a nonconforming use is maintained in conjunction with a conforming use,
discontinuance of the nonconforming use for the above stated time period shall
terminate the right to maintain it thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 157.063) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.069 CHANGE IN TYPE OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   If a nonconforming use exists on the effective date of this chapter
that would be allowed under the terms of this chapter, the nonconforming use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use. Thereafter
the property may not revert to a nonconforming use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use
only in accordance with a nonconformity permit issued by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment. The Board shall issue such permit if it finds that the proposed use
will be in the same or more restricted use classification.
   (B)   If a nonconforming use and conforming use, or any combination of
conforming and nonconforming uses, or any combination of nonconforming uses
exist on one lot, the use made of the property may be changed substantially
(except to a conforming use) only in accordance with a nonconformity permit
issued by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board shall issue such a permit
if it finds that the proposed use will be in the same or more restricted use
classification.
(Prior Code, § 157.064) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.070 COMPLETION OF NONCONFORMING PROJECT.
   Projects made nonconforming by provisions of this chapter or amendments
thereto may be completed if a valid building permit was issued, or substantial
expenditures were made, prior to the effective date of this chapter or
subsequent amendments thereto. The mere purchase of property shall not be
considered a substantial expenditure under these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 157.065) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.071 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   All nonconforming signs in all zoning districts shall comply with
Chapter 158.
(Prior Code, § 157.066) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.072 NONCONFORMITY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment is authorized to issue nonconformity
permits under certain provisions of this subchapter. No building or other
development permit or certificate of occupancy may be issued in these instances
without a nonconformity permit.
   (B)   The Board shall determine whether the proposed changes comply with the
standards set forth in this subchapter, and may attach conditions with the
issuance of a nonconformity permit, to further the intent of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 157.067) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
LANDSCAPING AND BUFFER REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.085 PURPOSE.
   Landscaping and buffer requirements are established to improve the
appearance of vehicular use areas and property abutting public rights-or-way;
to require buffering between incompatible land uses; to protect, preserve and
promote the visual appeal, character, and value of surrounding neighborhoods;
and to promote public health and safety through the reduction of pollution.
(Prior Code, § 157.080) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.086 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No new site development, building, structure, or vehicular use area
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, or used unless landscaping is provided
as required by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   No property lines shall be altered, nor shall any building, structure
or vehicular use area be expanded, unless the minimum landscaping required by
this subchapter is provided for the property to the extent of its alteration or
expansion, but not necessarily for the entire property.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued until the required landscaping plan
has been submitted and approved, and no certificate of occupancy shall be
issued until the landscaping is completed as certified by the Zoning
Administrator, unless a performance bond or other acceptable guarantee of
improvements has been posted.
   (D)   Where site plan approval by the Zoning Administrator or Board of
Zoning Adjustment is required, no building permit or certificate of occupancy
shall be issued until such approval has been granted. In the event that the
requirements of this subchapter conflict with those of other provisions of this
chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (E)   The City Administration may vary specific planting standards of this
subchapter when it is determined that the purpose statement and other
provisions have been otherwise exceeded.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may reduce through the variance
procedure outlines in §
157.246 certain standards of this subchapter; however, the Board shall not have
the power to waive any specific provision.
(Prior Code, § 157.081) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 126-1989, passed
11-21-1989) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.087 SCREENING AND BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   Screening and buffering shall be provided in the locations and in accordance
with the following provisions.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   In all residential major subdivision development, approved pursuant
to the
Chapter 154, Subdivisions, a buffer strip at least 20 feet in depth or width
shall be provided adjacent to all limited access highways, all railroad rights-
or-way, and commercial and industrial zoning districts (along side and rear
property line). The buffer strip shall be in addition to the depth or width
required, and shall be a part of the platted lots, having the following
restriction designated on the plat: “This strip reserved for the planting of
trees or shrubs; the building of structures hereon is prohibited.”
      (2)   The buffer strip shall be planted with deciduous and/or evergreen
trees, spaced not more than 40 feet apart, with a row of shrubs, spaced not
more than five feet apart.
   (B)   Nonresidential.
      (1)   In all commercial and industrial zoning districts, a buffer strip
shall be provided along the side and/or rear property lines adjoining
residentially zoned lots. Within the buffer strip, grass, trees, shrubs and/or
fencing shall be placed together which form a dense year-round barrier designed
to effectively screen the uses within the subject property from the view of
adjacent residential uses (existing or future). Such buffer strips may be
included in part of a required yard.
         (a)   For nonresidential lots one-half acre or larger, the buffer
strip shall be at least ten feet wide.
         (b)   For nonresidential lots smaller than one-half acre, the buffer
strip shall be at least five feet wide.
      (2)   Fencing may be a solid wall or a barrier of wood, brick or other
material. All walls and fences shall be at least six feet in height, and
vegetation shall attain that height within two normal growing seasons.
(Prior Code, § 157.082) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 126-1989, passed
11-21-1989) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.088 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS; VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
   (A)   Areas regulated. Vehicular use areas covered by the requirements of
this section include off-street parking for five or more vehicles, including
the internal vehicular circulation system for five or more vehicles. Also
covered are the loading areas (and access thereto) for two or more loading
bays. Lesser areas are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Street frontage landscaping requirements. On the site of a building or
structure or open lot use providing off-street parking, loading or other
vehicular use area, where such area will not be entirely screened visually by
an intervening building or structure, landscaping shall be required along any
side that abuts the right-or-way of a street or highway. Such landscaping shall
be provided as follows.
      (1)   A landscaping strip of at least five feet in depth shall be located
between the abutting right-of-way and any off-street parking, loading or other
vehicular use area, except where driveway openings are to be provided.
      (2)   The landscaping strip shall be planted in accordance with the
following standards as a minimum:
         (a)   One tree shall be planted for each 50 linear feet of the
landscaping strip, or portion thereof;
         (b)   A hedge, wall or other landscape barrier shall be planted or
erected adjacent to the street right-of-way line; and
         (c)   All portions of the landscaping strip not planted with the
shrubs and trees, or covered by a wall or other barrier, shall be planted in
grass or other ground cover.
      (3)   In areas of the city where there is 15 or more feet between the
property line and the paved edge of the road, the street frontage landscaping
strip may be situated within the public right-of-way. A formal limited use of
right-of-way agreement must be approved by the City Commission in accordance
with Ord. 122, 1986 (as may be amended) for this provision to be used. The
property owner shall be responsible for maintenance and liability associated
with such right-of-way landscaping.
   (C)   Peripheral coverage requirements. In addition to the requirements of
division (B) of this section, peripheral landscaping shall be provided along
the sides of regulated off-street parking, loading or other vehicular use areas
that abut adjoining property not a right-of-way. Such landscaping shall be, as
a minimum, provided as follows.
      (1)   A landscaping strip at least three feet in width shall be located
between the parking, loading or other vehicular use area and the abutting
property lines, except where driveway openings are to be provided. Landscaping
is not required along an improved alley.
      (2)   The landscaping strip shall be planted in accordance with the
following standards as a minimum:
         (a)   One tree shall be planted for each 60 linear feet of landscaping
strip, or portion thereof;
         (b)   A hedge, wall or other durable landscape barrier shall be
planted or erected adjacent to the common lot line (if a yard is required or
likely to be provided on the abutting property); and
         (c)   All portions of the landscaping strip not planted with shrubs or
trees, or covered by a wall or other barrier, shall be planted in grass or
other ground cover.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (C) shall not be applicable in
following situations:
         (a)   Where any off-street parking, loading or other vehicular use
area will be entirely screened visually by an intervening building or structure
from abutting property;
         (b)   Where any vehicular use area is immediately adjacent to a
structure built on the side property line; and
         (c)   Where planting and/or fencing is required for screening between
incompatible land uses, pursuant to §
157.087.
   (D)   Interior coverage requirements. Not less than 5% of the interior of
any regulated parking, loading, or other vehicular use area shall be
landscaped. The location of such landscaping is at the option of the owner or
developer, except in the case of large scale commercial, industrial, or
residential parking development. In such instances, at least every eighth row
of parking shall be separated by a median strip, for landscaping and pedestrian
purposes, of not less than eight feet in width. Additionally, and in all other
cases, landscaping shall be reasonably dispersed throughout the parking lot in
end planters and median strips. Such interior landscaping shall include trees,
shrubs, and ground cover. Planting required by this division (B) and (C) and §
157.087, shall not be considered as part of the interior landscaping
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 157.083) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 126-1989, passed
11-21-1989) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.089 PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Whenever any property is affected by these landscape and buffer
requirements, the property owner or developer shall prepare a plan for
submittal to, and approval by, the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall follow the requirements of this section in approving any
plan required herein. The contents of the plan shall include the following:
   (A)   The dimensions and acreage of the lot or plot or portion thereof to be
built upon or otherwise used;
   (B)   The layout of the entire project, including the proposed uses of all
structures, and its relation to adjoining properties;
   (C)   The layout of all off-street parking and loading areas, including the
location of entry and exit points, the internal vehicular circulation pattern,
and the location and dimensions of required parking and loading spaces;
   (D)   The location and dimensions of present and proposed streets and
highways (and private drives if applicable);
   (E)   The location of all existing and proposed plantings and screenings,
including name, installation size and quantities;
   (F)   The location of wall, fences and railings, and an indication of their
height and construction materials; and
   (G)   Title, north arrow, scale, names of owner, developer, person
responsible for plan preparation and the date of plan preparation.
(Prior Code, § 157.084) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.090 SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   To ensure that landscape materials do not constitute a driving and
pedestrian hazard, a “sight triangle” will be observed at all street
intersections or intersections of driveways with streets. Within the sight
triangle, no landscape material, wall or other obstruction shall be permitted
between the height of two feet and eight feet above the street or driveway
elevation. The sight triangle shall consist of the following; or other
dimensions having a similar effect when intersections are not 90 degrees.
Driveways to single-family and two-family residences are exempt.
   (A)   Intersecting streets shall have a sight triangle with two sides being
15 feet along the abutting rights-of-way lines, measured from their point of
intersection, and the third side being a line connecting the ends of the other
two lines.
   (B)   A street intersecting a railroad track shall have a sight triangle
with two sides being 25 feet along the abutting rights-of-way lines, measured
from their point of intersection, and the third side being a line connecting
the other two lines.
   (C)   A street intersecting a driveway shall have a sight triangle with one
side being 15 feet along the right-of-way, one side being ten feet along the
abutting driveway edge, and the third side being a line connecting the other
two sides.
   (D)   The B-3 Downtown Business District shall be exempt from these site
distance requirements because of the large scale dense development, low traffic
speeds and adequate traffic controls.
(Prior Code, § 157.085) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.091 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Existing landscape material in satisfactory condition may be used to
satisfy these requirements in whole or in part when such material achieves the
objectives of this subchapter. Otherwise, all landscaping shall be of good
quality and installed in a sound, workmanlike manner.
   (B)   Parking vehicles may overhang a landscaped area no more than one-half-
foot, provided curbing or other wheel stops are installed to ensure no greater
overhang or penetration of the landscaped area. Landscaping, walls, fences and
any other material shall be so located to prevent its damage and/or destruction
by over-hanging vehicles.
   (C)   The type of landscape material used in meeting the requirements of
this subchapter is at the option of the owner or developer. However, a
recommended plant list shall be maintained by the city to provide detailed
information on appropriate plant materials.
   (D)   All trees to be used shall be a minimum of eight feet in overall
height upon planting. Shrubs shall be a minimum of two feet in height when
measured immediately after planting. In any event, plant material required for
the purpose of screening shall be of such initial size to reach the required
height and density within two normal growing seasons.
   (E)   The owner and tenant of the property shall be responsible for the
continued, proper maintenance of all landscaping materials, and shall keep them
in a proper, neat and orderly appearance, free from refuse and debris, at all
times. All landscaped areas shall be provided with a readily available water
supply. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced within one year,
or by the next planting season, whichever comes first.
(Prior Code, § 157.086) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.105 PURPOSE.
   Off-street parking requirements are established in order to assure the
proper and uniform development of parking areas throughout the city to relieve
traffic congestion in the streets, and to minimize detrimental effects of off-
street parking areas on adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 157.095) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.106 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to off-street parking
lots provided for five or more vehicles, as determined by §
157.110. Lesser areas are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter except
that the off-street parking spaces required by §
157.110 shall be provided for all land uses.
   (B)   Off-street parking lots provided in the B-3 Downtown Business
District, and other lots provided, though not required by §
157.110, shall conform with this section and §
157.109.
   (C)   Each application for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
shall include plans and other information of sufficient detail to enable the
Zoning Administrator to determine whether or not the requirements of this
section have been met. Parking plans shall include information as to (not
required for one- and two-family dwellings):
      (1)   The location and dimensions of driveway entrances, access aisles
and parking spaces;
      (2)   The provisions of vehicular and pedestrian circulation;
      (3)   The location of sidewalks and curbs;
      (4)   The location of signs;
      (5)   Typical cross-section of pavement;
      (6)   Storm drainage facilities, utilities and such other information or
plans as circumstances may warrant; and
      (7)   Landscaping plan showing compliance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (D)   The building permit or certificate of occupancy for the construction
or use of any building, structure or land where off-street parking space is
required shall be withheld by the Zoning Administrator until the provisions of
this subchapter have been met. If at any time such compliance ceases, any
certificate of occupancy which shall have been issued for the use of property
shall become void.
(Prior Code, § 157.096) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.107 LOCATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE.
   The off-street parking space required by this subchapter shall be located on
the same lot with the uses served. Where off-street parking required in the
connection with a use cannot be located on the lot with the use, such parking
may be provided off the lot, subject to the following standards.
   (A)   The off-street spaces shall be within 500 feet of the main entrance of
the use for which the parking is required. The distance shall be measured along
routes generally available to the pedestrians.
   (B)   Off-lot spaces shall be located only in those zoning districts in
which similar off-street parking is permitted.
   (C)   The off-lot parking area shall be held in fee simple by the same owner
as the use requiring the off-street parking spaces; or under lease, rental or
other form of agreement satisfactory to the city as assuring continuing
availability of required off-street parking for the use.
   (D)   In the event that the lease or agreement expires, or that the off-lot
area is used for other than parking space for the use for which it is required,
the use and/or structure shall not be continued or occupied until the
requirements of this section have been met.
(Prior Code, § 157.097) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.108 INTERPRETATION AND MODIFICATION.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the application of the requirements of this
subchapter, or where the applicant for a permit for a building or use finds
that the required off-street parking is in excess of the needs of the use or
building proposed, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where other sections of this chapter impose additional or greater
requirements than those set forth in §
157.110, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   Parking requirements for a use not listed in §
157.110 shall be the same as for a listed use of the same general
characteristics of traffic generation.
   (C)   When more than one use occupies a building or premises, the parking
requirements shall be equal to the sum of the requirements of each use.
   (D)   If the applicant for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
finds that the off-street parking requirements are in excess of the needs of
the proposed building or use, the Board of Adjustment may reduce the number of
spaces required and the extent of parking area to be improved, upon finding
that any proposed modification shall be sufficient to serve the traffic
generated, and that no hazard or traffic congestion shall result. If the
building or premises for which the modification is requested is thereafter
occupied by a use which requires a greater number of off-street parking spaces,
the use and/or building shall not be continued or occupied until the
requirements of this subchapter have been met.
   (E)   Up to 50% of the required parking for a theater, auditorium, night
club or similar use not normally open during regular business hours, and up to
100% of the required space for a church, may be provided and used jointly by
banks, offices, retail stores and similar uses not normally open or operated
during the same hours, provided that a formal agreement between the parties
concerned is properly executed and filed with the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 157.098) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.109 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All regulated off-street parking areas shall conform with the following
design standards:
   (A)   All parking spaces shall have minimum dimensions of nine feet in width
and 18 feet in length. All access or backup aisles shall conform to the
following minimum dimensions:
 
Parking Angle (Degree) Aisle Dimension (Feet)
Parallel               12
 
   (B)   Where off-street parking is provided for ten or more vehicles, 30% of
the stalls may be designated for compact cars. The dimensions for compact car
stalls shall be at least eight feet in width and 16 feet in length. A majority
of such compact car stalls shall be located closer to the main entrance of the
use for which the parking is provided than the majority of other parking
stalls. Such compact car stalls shall be readily identified as such by some
form of signage.
   (C)   The use of streets, sidewalks or other public rights-or-way for
parking or maneuvering to and from off-street parking spaces is prohibited. All
off-street parking areas shall be so arranged that ingress and egress is by
forward motion of the vehicle. One- and two-family dwellings are exempt from
this provision. Improved alleys are likewise exempt from this provision.
   (D)   Parking structures on more than one level shall be designed in
accordance with the standards set forth herein for grade level parking
facilities insofar as they are reasonably applied.
   (E)   Required off-street parking areas, including drives and access ways,
shall be paved with an all-weather hard surface material.
   (F)   Parking area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing to prevent
vehicular encroachment on a public right-of-way or on adjacent property, and to
protect the public right-of-way and adjoining properties from the damaging
effects from surface drainage from parking lots.
   (G)   Where parking or loading areas are provided adjacent to a public
street, ingress or egress thereto shall be made only through driveways not
exceeding 30 feet in width at the curb line of said street, except where the
Zoning Administrator finds that a greater width is necessary to accommodate the
vehicles customarily using the driveway.
   (H)   Where two or more driveways are located on the same lot, the minimum
distance between such drives shall be 30 feet or one-third of the lot frontage,
whichever is greater.
   (I)   Businesses integrated into a unified shopping center or cluster of
commercial facilities shall use the common access with other business
establishments in that center.
   (J)   No driveway shall be located closer than 25 feet to any street
intersection.
   (K)   Nonresidential facilities for ten or more spaces shall be lighted, and
any lighting of parking areas shall be shielded so as to cast no glare upon
adjacent properties and streets.
   (L)   Landscaping shall comply with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
(Prior Code, § 157.099) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.110 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking shall be provided and maintained as specified in the
following schedule. These requirements shall apply to all new buildings and
uses and to expansion of existing buildings and uses (where such are expanded
by 30% or greater, and to the extent of such expansion), in all districts
except the B-3 Downtown Business District.
Use Parking Requirements
Use                                                 Parking Requirements
Residential                                          
   Dwellings (includes mobile homes)             1 space per unit
   Multi-family designed for elderly             2 space per 2 units
   Institutional (nursing home, orphanage, group 2 spaces per 5 beds, 1
home)                                               space per employee
                                                    1 space per company owned/
All nonresidential                                  inventoried vehicle, in
                                                    addition to below
                                                    requirements
Automobile service station, repairs                 3 spaces per bay
Bowling alley                                       4 spaces per lane
Day care center                                     1 space per employee, 1
                                                    space per 5 children
Drive in/up facility (bank, dry cleaning, car wash, 5 stacking spaces per
restaurant and the like)                            window/bay (in addition to
                                                    other requirements)
Flea market                                         2 spaces per booth
                                                    2 spaces per 3 employees
Hospital                                            (largest shift), 1 space
                                                    per resident doctor, 1
                                                    space per 2 beds
                                                    2 spaces per 3 employees
Industrial manufacturing, and warehousing           (largest shift), 1 visitor
                                                    space per 10 employees
                                                    6 visitor spaces per
Medical, dental and veterinary care                 doctor, 2 spaces per 3
                                                    employees
                                                    1 space per each room, plus
Motel, boarding house                               1 additional space per 5
                                                    rooms
Offices                                             1 space per 200 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Open air uses (building materials; salvage yards;
car, trailer and boat lots with less than 1,000     1 space per 1,500 square
square feet of enclosed display and sales area;     feet of gross lot area
markets)
                                                    1 space per 50 square feet
Public/private assembly (auditorium, theater,       gross club, floor area, or
church, museum, recreation, funeral home, and the   1 indoor space per 4
like)                                               persons at maximum capacity
                                                    (whichever is more)
Restaurant, lounge                                  1 space per 75 square feet
                                                    gross floor area
Retailing and personal service                      1 space per 200 square feet
                                                    gross floor area
Retailing of bulk items (vehicles, furniture, and   1 space per 500 square feet
the like)                                           gross floor area
                                                    2 spaces per 3 employees, 1
Schools, all                                        space per 10 seats in
                                                    gymnasium or auditorium
                                                    (largest one)
   Senior high, college                          Additionally, 5 spaces per
                                                    classroom
Self service laundry                                1 space per 2 washing
                                                    machines
Trade, vocational school                            1 space per 200 square feet
                                                    gross floor area
 
(Prior Code, § 157.100) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.125 PURPOSE.
   Off-street loading requirements are established in order to assure the
proper and uniform development of loading areas throughout the city to relieve
traffic congestion in the streets and to minimize any detrimental effects of
off-street loading areas on adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 157.130) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.126 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each application for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
shall include plans and other information of sufficient detail to enable the
Zoning Administrator to determine whether or not the requirements of this
subchapter have been met. Plans for off-street loading areas shall include
information as to:
      (1)   The location and dimensions of driveway entrances, access aisles,
loading spaces;
      (2)   The provisions for vehicular and pedestrian circulation;
      (3)   The location of sidewalks and curbs;
      (4)   Typical cross-section of pavement;
      (5)   Storm drainage facilities, utilities; and
      (6)   Such other information or plans as circumstances may warrant.
   (B)   A building permit or certificate of occupancy for the construction or
use of any building, structure or land where off-street loading space is
required shall be withheld by the Zoning Administrator until the provisions of
this subchapter have been met. If at any time such compliance ceases, any
certificate of occupancy which shall have been issued for the use of the
property shall become void.
(Prior Code, § 157.131) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.127 LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   The off-street loading space required by this subchapter shall be provided
for standing, loading and unloading operations either inside or outside a
building and on the same lot with the use served.
(Prior Code, § 157.132) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.128 INTERPRETATION AND MODIFICATION.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the application of the requirements of this
subchapter, or where the applicant for a permit for a building or use finds
that the required off-street loadings is in excess of the needs of the use or
building proposed, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where other provisions of this chapter impose additional or greater
requirements than those set forth in §
157.130, the greater shall apply.
   (B)   Loading requirements for a use not listed in §
157.130 shall be the same as for a listed use of the same general
characteristics.
   (C)   Where more than one use occupies a building or premises, the loading
requirements shall be equal to the sum of the requirements of each use.
   (D)   If the applicant for a building permit or certificate of occupancy
finds that the off-street loading requirements is in excess of the needs of the
proposed building or use, the Board of Adjustment may reduce the number of
spaces required and the extent of the loading area to be improved, upon finding
that any proposed modification shall be sufficient to serve the building or
use, and that no hazard or traffic congestion shall result. If the building or
premises for which the modification is requested is thereafter occupied by a
use which requires a greater number of off-street loading spaces, the use and/
or building shall not be continued or occupied until the requirements of this
subchapter have been met.
(Prior Code, § 157.133) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.129 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All off-street loading areas required by this subchapter shall conform with
the following design standards.
   (A)   For uses containing a gross floor area of less than 20,000 square
feet, each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 13 feet in
width and 45 feet in length.
   (B)   For uses containing a gross floor area of 20,000 square feet or more,
each off-street loading space shall be 15 feet in width and 55 feet in length
as a minimum.
   (C)   All off-street loading spaces shall have a minimum vertical clearance
of 15 feet.
   (D)   Access aisles or apron spaces shall be of sufficient width to allow
for proper backing and/or turning movements.
   (E)   Required off-street loading areas including drives and access aisles
shall be paved with an all-weather hard surface material.
   (F)   Loading spaces and access ways shall be located in such a way that no
truck or service vehicle using such area shall block or interfere with the
free, normal movement of other vehicles on a service drive or on any off-street
parking area, public street, aisle or pedestrian area used for general
circulation.
   (G)   Loading area edges shall be protected by suitable curbing to prevent
vehicular encroachment on a public right-of-way or on adjacent property, and to
protect the public right-of-way and adjoining properties from the damaging
effects of surface drainage from off-street loading areas.
   (H)   Driveways shall be provided as required in §
157.109(H) and (I).
   (I)   Any lighting of loading areas shall be shielded so as to cast no glare
upon adjacent properties and streets.
(Prior Code, § 157.134) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.130 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street loading shall be provided and maintained as specified in the
following schedule. These requirements shall apply to all buildings and uses in
all districts except the B-3 Downtown Business District where development is at
such density that they cannot reasonably be imposed.
   (A)   Uses which normally handle large quantities of goods, including, but
not limited to, industrial plants, wholesale establishments, storage
warehouses, freight, terminals, hospitals or sanitariums, and retail sales
establishment shall provide off-street loading facilities in the following
amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area           Minimum Number of Spaces Required
(Square Feet)
5, 000—20,000            1
20,001—50,000            2
50,001—80,000            3
80,001—130,000           4
For each additional 50,000 1 additional
 
   (B)   Uses which do not handle large quantities of goods, including, but not
limited to, office buildings, restaurants, funeral homes, hotels, hospitals and
places of public assembly, shall provide off-street loading facilities in the
following amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area            Minimum Number of Spaces Required
(Square Feet)
5,000—80,000              1
80,001—200,000            2
200,001—320,000           3
320,001—520,000           4
For each additional 200,000 1 additional
 
(Prior Code, § 157.135) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 157.145 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Erosion and resultant sedimentation problems are caused from rainfall
and runoff over unprotected soil. Erosion is increased by intense rainfalls,
long slopes, steep slopes and lack of adequate vegetative cover. These
conditions are in part caused by or aggravated by improper construction,
grading or excavation which results in removal of natural ground cover without
taking appropriate steps to control erosion problems.
   (B)   It is hereby determined that unnecessary soil erosion and
sedimentation necessitates costly repairs and maintenance of storm sewers,
gutters, and other public works, reduces the clarity of public water, increases
the costs of providing pure drinking water, and reduces the attractiveness and
safety of water-oriented recreation facilities; that the public health, safety
and welfare requires regulation of land balancing, development and construction
activities to avoid unnecessary soil erosion; and that the regulations
contained in this chapter are the minimum regulations which will help avoid the
consequences herein set forth and protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 157.145) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.146 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to every lot in the city except
where the following occur.
   (A)   Excavation below finished grade:
      (1)   For basements and footings of a one-family or two-family
residential structure;
      (2)   For retaining walls;
      (3)   For swimming pools;
      (4)   For cemeteries for human or animal burial; or
      (5)   For accessory structures related to one-family or two-family
structures authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   An excavation or fill provided it:
      (1)   Is less than four feet in vertical depth/height at its deepest
point as measured from the natural ground;
      (2)   Does not result in a total quantity of more than 100 cubic yards of
material being removed from, deposited on or disturbed on any lot, parcel or
subdivision thereof;
      (3)   Does not impair existing surface drainage, constitute a potential
erosion hazard, or act as a source of sedimentation to any adjacent land or
watercourse;
      (4)   Has no final slopes steeper than one foot vertical for three feet
horizontal;
      (5)   Has proper vegetative cover reestablished as soon as possible on
all disturbed areas; and
      (6)   Has no fill placed on a surface having a slope steeper than five
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (C)   Accepted agricultural land management practices such as plowing,
cultivation, construction of agricultural structures, nursery operations such
as the removal and/or transplanting of cultivated sod, shrubs and trees, tree
cuttings at or above existing ground level, and logging operations leaving the
stump, ground cover and root mat intact.
   (D)   Grading, provided:
      (1)   The aggregate area(s) affected, or stripped at any one time does
not exceed 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   The grade change does not exceed 18 inches at any point and does
not alter the drainage pattern;
      (3)   Proper vegetative cover is reestablished as soon as possible on all
disturbed areas; and
      (4)   The grading does not involve a quantity of material in excess of
100 cubic yards.
   (E)   Installation of lateral sewer lines, telephone lines, electricity
lines, gas lines or other public service facilities.
(Prior Code, § 157.146) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.147 REQUIREMENTS; GRADING PERMIT.
   For uses and activities covered under this section, no grading, excavation
or filling shall occur and a building permit shall not be issued until a
grading permit has been issued by the Zoning Administrator. To receive approval
of a grading permit, the owner must submit an erosion control plan that applied
accepted soil erosion and sediment control procedures to the lot’s unique
physical conditions and the type of proposed construction or soil-disturbance
activity. In reviewing the plan, the Zoning Administrator may seek comments of
the Boyd and Greenup Counties Soil Conservation District or any city department
or government agency. The objectives of the review will be to determine whether
the plan will adequately reduce soil erosion and result in stable soil
conditions at the conclusion of the construction or soil-disturbance activity.
If the applicant is required to submit a site development plan under provisions
of §§
157.160 through
157.166, the soil erosion plan shall be an integral part of the site
development plan.
(Prior Code, § 157.147) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
SITE PLAN REGULATIONS
§ 157.160 PURPOSE.
   Under the provisions of this chapter, the use of land and various other
characteristics of property development are controlled. The purpose of this
subchapter is to provide a means for the Planning Commission or its
representative to review and approve a site development plan that demonstrates
how the regulations will be complied with for the subject lot(s) and how
optional or discretionary choices are coordinated with requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 157.160) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.161 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be complied with prior to the
issuance of a building or other development permit on every lot in the city
except for the construction of or any addition to one and two-family structures
or any other existing principal uses or principal structures that are to be
expanded in area by less than 50%.
(Prior Code, § 157.161) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.162 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   An applicant seeking a permit for construction activities covered by this
subchapter shall first submit three copies of a development plan to the Zoning
Administrator. The development plan shall show the following information. The
Zoning Administrator shall have the right to waive certain information
requirements from the following list that are not necessary to determine
compliance of a specific plan with this chapter:
   (A)   The boundary lines of the area included in the site plan, including
angles, dimensions and references to an existing street intersection, an arrow
pointing north and the area of the land included in the site plan;
   (B)   Existing and proposed grades and drainage systems and structures; and,
when erosion control plans are required, topographic contours at intervals not
exceeding two feet shall be provided;
   (C)   The shape, size, location, height and floor area of all existing and
proposed structures;
   (D)   Natural features such as trees, streams, lakes or ponds, the 100-year
flood hazard area, and human-made features such as existing roads and
structures, with indication as to which are to be retained and which removed or
altered. The location and type of landscaping treatment to be installed.
Adjacent properties and their uses shall be identified;
   (E)   Proposed streets, driveways, parking spaces, and sidewalks with
indication of direction of travel for one-way streets and drives and inside
radii of all curves. The width of streets, driveways and sidewalks and the
total number of parking spaces shall be shown;
   (F)   The size and location of all existing and proposed public and private
utilities, and their easements;
   (G)   A vicinity sketch showing the location of the site in relation to the
surrounding street system;
   (H)   A legal description of the lot; the name, address and telephone number
of the owner, developer and designer; and
   (I)   Any other information necessary to establish compliance with this
chapter and ordinances or the availability of adequate utility capacity.
(Prior Code, § 157.162) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.163 REVIEW OF SITE PLAN; SCOPE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any site plan, the Zoning Administrator shall review
it to determine whether it is in proper form and contains all of the required
information. The Zoning Administrator shall thereafter review the plan to
determine:
      (1)   Compliance with the rules and regulations contained in this
chapter; and
      (2)   The location and character of certain items that could effect the
health, safety and welfare of the community such as entrance drives, parking
lots, on-site and off-site provisions for storm water drainage, landscaped
areas, pedestrian walkways, availability of utilities and provisions to
mitigate negative impacts on adjacent development.
   (B)   Other city departments or governmental agencies may be called upon for
review and advice.
(Prior Code, § 157.163) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.164 ACTION BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   Upon completing the review, the Zoning Administrator shall select the most
appropriate course of action from the following list of actions. The Zoning
Administrator’s actions and reasons for the actions shall be stated in writing.
The Zoning Administrator shall act within 20 working days after receipt of a
properly prepared plan.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may determine the site development plan
complies with all of the applicable provisions of this chapter and approve the
plan in writing;
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may determine that certain changes in the
development plan must be made to comply with this chapter or should be made to
alleviate potential safety problems or negative impacts on adjoining property
that could result from optional decisions made during preparation of the
development plan. After presenting the proposed changes to the applicant, and
after the applicant has resubmitted the plan either altered or unaltered, the
Zoning Administrator shall take final action and approve or deny the plan
within ten working days of the plans resubmittal; or
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may deny approval of the development plan in
writing, setting forth in detail the reasons, which shall be limited to any
defect in form or required information, any violation of any provision of this
chapter, or the inadequacy of any utility, with any changes which would make
the plan acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 157.164) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.165 ZONING SITE-REVIEW PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to commence any construction,
modification or change of usage, or activity included within the zoning site-
review charges schedule as set out in §
157.166 before payment of the required fee and the issuance of a zoning site-
review permit to proceed.
   (B)   Application. All zoning site-review permit applications shall be made
upon forms supplied by the city.
   (C)   Issuance. If the proposed construction, modification or change of
usage, or regulated activity is in conformity with this chapter and other
ordinances or laws then in force, then the city shall issue a zoning site-
review permit. Except as may be regulated by this subchapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall act within ten working days after receipt of a properly
prepared permit application.
   (D)   Refusal. If the proposed activity does not conform to the requirements
of this chapter and other ordinance or laws then in force, the city shall not
issue a zoning site-review permit. When a zoning site-review permit is refused,
the city shall state such refusal in writing, setting forth all reasons for
refusal.
   (E)   Expiration of zoning site-review permit. If the activity approved by
the zoning site-review permit has not begun and/or a building permit has not
been obtained within 90 days of the date of issuance of the zoning site-review
permit, then the zoning site-review permit shall become null and void for any
and all purposes.
   (F)   Building and development permits. No building permit shall be issued
until a zoning site-review permit has been issued first where appropriate under
the schedule of charges.
(Prior Code, § 157.165) (Ord. 15-1987, passed 1-20-1987) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.166 ZONING SITE-REVIEW CHARGES.
   (A)   Zoning site-review charges. The Board of City Commissioners hereby
authorizes and adopts zoning site-review charges for the city. Said zoning
site-review charges are set out in division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Credit of fees. The first $25 of any site design review permit fee
shall be credited towards any subsequent building permit fees issued for that
particular project.
   (C)   Table of charges.
Site Design Review Permit Fee
Site Design Review Permit                                                    Fee
Residential uses
   Single-family:
      Repairs and alterations (which increase size of structure or its $7
occupancy)
      New construction                                                 $25
   Multi-family:
      Repairs and alterations
         Up to 4 units                                              $15
         Each additional unit                                       $3
      New construction
         Up to 4 units                                              $75
         Each additional unit                                       $5
Nonresidential uses:                                                         $25
Repairs and alterations (which increase size of the structure up to 1,000    $25
square feet)
   Each additional 1000 square feet gross floor area or fraction thereof  $3
New construction up to 1,000 square feet gross floor area                    $75
   Each additional 1000 square feet gross floor area or fraction thereof  $5
Change of use in existing building                                           $10
Outdoor uses                                                                 $50
Parking areas:
   Private parking lots up to 1,000 square feet                           $25
      Each additional 1000 square feet or fraction thereof             $3
   Commercial parking lots                                                $50
      Each additional 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof            $3
Signs:
   Business signs (per application)                                       $15
   Off-premises signs                                                     $15
Miscellaneous:
Private swimming pools                                                       $25
Home occupations                                                             $25
Mobile home parks                                                            $100
   Each pad                                                               $5
Accessory building and structures (residential)                              $10
Accessory building and structures (nonresidential)                           $25
Fences                                                                       $10
Retaining or decorative walls                                                $20
Flood control permit                                                         $100
Grading/filling (more than 100 cubic feet)                                   $20
 
   (D)   No building or other development permit shall be issued until a zoning
permit has been approved.
   (E)   No fees shall be charged for work which has a valuation of $1,000 or
less.
   (F)   One hundred percent surcharge for zoning permit requests received
after-the-fact.
(Prior Code, § 157.166) (Ord. 15-1987, passed 1-20-1987; Ord. 42-1997, passed
4-3-1997)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 157.180 OBJECTIVE AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is based on the division of the city into districts which the
use of land and buildings, and the bulk and location of structures in relation
to the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there
are some land uses which are basically in keeping with the intent and purpose
of the district, but which may have an impact on the area around them which can
only be determined by review of the specific proposals. These uses may be
established, under certain conditions and with proper controls on site
development, in such a manner as to minimize any adverse affects. In order to
ensure that these uses, in their proposed location, would be compatible with
surrounding development and in keeping with the purpose of the district in
which they are located, their establishment shall not be as a matter of right,
but only after review and approval of a conditional use permit application.
(Prior Code, § 157.175) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.181 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   The uses for which conditional use permits are required are listed in §
157.207. A description of the procedures and standards which must be followed
in the issuance of a permit are detailed in §
157.183. Should any interpretation conflict arise between these two sections, §
157.207 shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 157.176) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.182 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   A conditional use permit may be issued by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment for uses designated in §
157.207. Prior to rendering a decision on the issuance of a conditional use
permit, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hold a public hearing. Each
application for a conditional use permit shall be made upon forms provided by
the city.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a notice of a public hearing to be posted on the property for which the
conditional use permit is sought; and duly advertised in a local newspaper. The
Zoning Administrator shall review all applications and present his or her
recommendations to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. Other applicable agencies
may be asked to comment on the application prior to the public hearing. The
Zoning Administrator shall also notify by mail all property owners within 200
feet of the applicant’s site with notice of the public hearing.
   (C)   Either the applicant or a designated agent shall present the proposal
and its merits at the public hearing.
   (D)   A site development plan as detailed in §§
157.160 through
157.166 is required prior to Board action on a conditional use permit
application. Such plan shall be approved by the Board as to the general design,
and standards listed in this subchapter. The Zoning Administrator shall conduct
a technical review as to the provisions of §
157.160 through
157.166 prior to the Board hearing.
   (E)   After the public hearing where the applicant, supporting, and opposing
testimonies are heard, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may grant or deny the
conditional use permit requested. The conditional use permit, if granted, shall
include approval of such plans as may be required. In granting the permit, the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall find each and all of the following:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment which justifies the issuance of the permit; and
      (2)   A statement of the specific conditions which must be met in order
for the use to be permitted.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may approve, modify or deny any
application for a conditional use permit. If it approves such permit, the Board
may attach necessary conditions to render the proposed use more compatible with
the area in which it is to be located. Any such conditions shall be recorded in
the Board’s minutes and on the conditional use permit. All conditions shall run
with the land (except in the case of temporary permits, the duration of which
shall be stated within the conditions). Such conditions may not relax the
adopted standards in §
157.183, but may be more restrictive or in addition thereto.
   (G)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have the power to revoke
conditional use permits for noncompliance. Furthermore, the Board shall have a
right of action to compel offending structures or uses removed at the cost of
the violator.
   (H)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all conditional use
permits, except those for which all conditions have been permanently satisfied,
at least once annually in order to ascertain that the landowner is complying
with all of the conditions listed on the permit.
      (2)   If the landowner is not complying with all the conditions, the
Zoning Administrator shall report the fact to the Board of Zoning Adjustment
and the landowner, specifying the noncompliance. The Board shall hold a public
hearing on the report, with notice of the hearing furnished to the landowner at
least one week in advance. If the Board finds such noncompliance, it may
authorize the Zoning Administrator to revoke the conditional use permit and
take the necessary legal action to cause the termination of the activity.
(Prior Code, § 157.177) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 158-2009, passed
11-19-2009)
§ 157.183 REGULATIONS, STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   The uses for which conditional use permits are required, and detailed
regulations and standards for the conditional uses governed by this subchapter
are set forth in this section. In addition to the requirement contained herein,
conditional uses shall comply with the area, height, parking and other
regulations applicable in the zoning district in which they are located, unless
specifically covered by the following standards or by conditions attached by
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (A)   Adult uses.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Adult uses may be permitted as a conditional
use in the B-3 Zoning District.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Adult uses shall comply with dimensional
requirements of the district in which the use is located.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §
157.085 through
157.091.
      (5)   Other standards.
         (a)   No adult use may operate within 300 feet of any residential
zone.
         (b)   No adult use may operate within 300 feet of any public, private,
or parochial school, library, park, playground, church or other places where
minors tend to congregate.
         (c)   No adult use may operate within a 300-foot radius of two other
such uses.
         (d)   Advertisements, displays or other promotional materials shall
not be shown or exhibited so as to be visible to the public from public rights-
of-way or from public/semi-public pedestrian walkways. Such displays shall be
considered as signs. Permitted signs shall be limited to those whose copy
includes only the name of the business, organization, place, building or person
it identifies; and the size and location of such signs are controlled by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Animal/pet boarding, kennel.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Pet boarding may be permitted as a conditional
use in the B-2, and I-1 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The boarding of pets shall comply with
the dimensional requirements of the district in which the facility is located;
provided, however, that no pen, run or other enclosure for animals be closer
than 100 feet from the property lines.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §§
157.085 through
157.091. Buffers shall effectively screen the operation from view of adjacent
residences.
   (C)   Art gallery, museum.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Art galleries and museums may be permitted as
conditional uses in the R-S and R-4 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Art galleries and museums shall comply
with the dimensional requirements of the district in which it is located.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §§
157.085 through
157.091.
      (5)   Other requirements. The applicant shall submit with the site plan a
narrative description of the proposed use, detailing: hours of operation,
provision of studios, presence of retail sales activity, character of proposed
events and exhibits, and anticipated number of visitors, employees, and
volunteers.
   (D)   Bed and breakfast.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Bed and breakfast operations may be permitted
as a conditional use in the R-5 Zoning District only.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for this use
shall be the same as for the zoning district in which the property is located,
as indicated in the Table of Dimensional Requirements, §
157.208, unless provided otherwise herein.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be in compliance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required by §§
157.085 through
157.091. In addition, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may require a vegetative
buffer strip or screen where this proposed operation abuts low density existing
or future housing.
      (5)   Buffer. It is the intent of this conditional use to provide a
buffer between intense land uses and low density single-family residences. To
that extent the Board of Zoning Adjustment may permit conditionally bed and
breakfast operation at the fringe of low density residential zones where it
abuts more intense and/or incompatible land uses. The Board may further permit
such operations near the intersection of two major streets where highway
traffic may not be conducive to single-family residential development.
      (6)   Other requirements. No more than one bed and breakfast operation
shall be located on a single zoning lot. Bed and breakfast operation permitted
under this division (C)(6) shall have no more than one structure on a single
zoning lot. No bed and breakfast operation permitted under this division (C)(6)
shall have more than four units per structure.
      (7)   Room accommodation. Each room to be rented shall be designed and
intended to accommodate no more than two persons.
      (8)   Length of rental. Each room shall be rented for no longer than
seven consecutive days. Any facility which rents rooms for more than seven days
shall be regulated as a boarding house.
      (9)   Guest log and other records. The owner-operator shall maintain a
guest log and other records, which shall be subject to annual review and
inspection.
      (10)   Transfer of property. The conditional use permit shall become null
and void upon the sale or transfer of the property.
      (11)   Compliance. The use shall be in compliance with all applicable
state and local laws, including Health Department rules and regulations.
   (E)   Beekeeping operations. The Board shall consider and apply those
following requirements that the Board, in its discretion, deems appropriate in
granting the conditional use:
      (1)   Permitted districts. Beekeeping operations may be permitted as a
conditional use in all residential zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   Hives may be located only on lots with residential use.
         (b)   No more than four hives may be located on a lot.
         (c)   No hive shall exceed 20 cubic feet in volume.
         (d)   No hive shall be located closer than ten feet from any property
line.
         (e)   No hive shall be located closer than 20 feet from a public
sidewalk or 25 feet from a principal building on an abutting lot.
         (f)   A constant supply of water shall be provided for all hives.
         (g)   A flyway barrier at least six feet in height shall shield any
part of a property line that is within 25 feet of a hive. The flyway barrier
shall consist of a wall, fence, dense vegetation or a combination thereof and
it shall be positioned to transect both legs of a triangle extending from an
apex at the hive to each end point of the part of the property to be shielded.
         (h)   A swarm trap shall be installed on the property from April 1
through October 31 of each year.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §§
157.085 through
157.091. Buffers shall effectively screen the operation from view of adjoining
residence(s).
   (F)   Cemetery.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Cemeteries may be permitted as conditional use
in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Lot size. A cemetery shall contain at least 15 acres of land.
      (3)   Building height. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
      (4)   Structure location. No structure permitted by these standards shall
be located closer than 100 feet to any abutting residential structure, or any
structure for routine occupancy.
      (5)   Access. There shall be at least one access point to a cemetery.
Such access shall be by way of a private drive entering from a public street
and of sufficient width to accommodate two-way vehicular traffic. A gate or
other means of closing the entrance shall be provided.
      (6)   Landscaping and buffers. A perimeter buffer strip of 50 feet shall
be maintained around the entire cemetery. No burial sites, decorations or
structures shall occupy this buffer strip.
      (7)   Hours of operation. Cemeteries shall be open only during daylight
hours. The entrance shall be closed and locked at night.
      (8)   Structures permitted. Chapels, mortuaries, undertaking
establishments, crematoriums, mausoleums, and sales and administrative offices
are permitted within a cemetery.
   (G)   Day care center, nursery.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Day care centers, and/or nurseries, may be
permitted in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. A day care center/nursery shall comply
with the lot, yard and height requirements of the zoning district in which the
facility is located.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Signs. Signs shall be in compliance with
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
      (5)   Landscaping and buffers. Where any outdoor play area is directly
adjacent to a residential lot, a solid fence or wall at least six feet, or an
open fence at least four feet in height with a screen planting of six feet in
height, shall be installed. Vegetative material shall meet the required height
within two growing seasons.
      (6)   Other requirements.
         (a)   There shall be 25 square feet of indoor space for use per child.
Closets, corridors, kitchens and baths will be excluded in determine compliance
with this requirement. (Floor plan required.)
         (b)   There shall be 75 feet of outdoor play area per child in
residential districts, and 45 square feet per child in nonresidential
districts. The outdoor play areas shall be located in a fenced side or rear
yard.
         (c)   Each day care center/nursery shall be duly licensed or certified
by the Commonwealth, where applicable.
         (d)   An off-street area shall be provided where passengers may safely
exit an automobile to enter the building, and vice-versa.
   (H)   Duplex and multi-family dwelling.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Duplex and small scale (one structure per lot
and no more than four units) multi-family residential development may be
permitted as a conditional use in the R-6 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for duplex
and multi-family residential development, as a conditional use, shall be the
same as those for the zoning district in which the property is located; as
indicated in §
157.208.
      (3)   Location with zoning districts.
         (a)   It is the intent of this conditional use to provide a buffer
between intense land uses and low density single-family residences. To that
extent the Board of Zoning Adjustment may permit conditionally duplexes or
multi-family at the fringe of low density residential zones where it abuts more
intense and/or incompatible land uses. The Board may further permit such
housing near the intersection of two major streets where highway traffic may
not be conducive to single-family residential development.
         (b)   This conditional use is not intended to change the character of
the R-9 and R-6 Zoning Districts to one of higher density development.
Therefore, such conditional use shall be allowed only for the single zoning lot
which abuts a land use incompatible with R-9 and R-6 type development.
Thereafter, the permitted conditional use will be considered a compatible land
use with the R-6 District.
      (4)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be in compliance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (5)   Landscaping and buffers. Duplex and multi-family development as a
conditional use shall comply with the landscaping and buffer requirements of §§
157.085 through
157.091. In addition, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may require a vegetative
buffer strip or screen where this proposed development abuts low density
existing or future housing.
      (6)   Other requirements. No more than one duplex structure shall be
located on a single zoning lot. Multi-family development permitted under this
division (G)(6) shall have no more than one structure on a single zoning lot.
No multi-family development permitted under this division (G)(6) shall have
more than four units per structure.
   (I)   Dwelling, multi-family-large scale.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Large scale multi-family dwelling developments
(more than one structure and/or more than eight units) may be permitted as a
conditional use in the R-5, R-4 Residential and B-3 Downtown Business Zoning
Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Large scale multi-family dwelling
developments shall comply with the lot, yard and height requirements of the
district in which the development is located, unless otherwise provided herein
or by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The dimensional requirements shall apply
to the entire development proposal rather than to only individual structures.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffering shall include a
20-foot buffer strip adjacent to all railroad rights-of-way, limited access
highways, and commercial and industrial uses or zoning districts. The buffer
strip shall be planted with evergreen or deciduous trees spaced not more than
50 feet apart and supplemented with grass and shrubs to effectively screen the
view of adjacent properties from the use(s) within the subject property. The
Board of Zoning Adjustment may require additional landscaping to ensure a safe
and healthy residential environment.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Individual structures shall be separated by at least 30 feet
end-to-end, and 40 feet in all other configurations.
         (b)   No multi-family structure shall be more than 200 feet in length.
         (c)   There shall be provided a minimum of 300 square feet of usable
open space for each multi-family unit. Such open space shall be improved active
and passive recreation area for the use of residents thereof. Housing for the
elderly or housing near public recreation sites may be exempt from the
provision, upon a finding that residents’ recreational needs are satisfied.
         (d)   Private, hard surface, drives are permitted, when approved by
the Director of Public Works. Individual structures or land uses need not front
on a public street. Private drives shall allow for public safety vehicles to
efficiently maneuver. The developer shall provide assurances, acceptable to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment, that the owner, homeowners association or agent
thereof, will assume maintenance responsibilities for all private drives. The
city will not accept any road into its system unless it meets city street
standards.
         (e)   Utilities, including storm sewers, sanitary sewers, refuse
collection, and water system shall be approved by the Directors of Public Works
and Utilities, and shall be designed by a registered engineer. As-built
drawings of the facilities will be required where the utilities are to be
dedicated to, and accepted by, the city. The developer shall provide
assurances, acceptable to the Board of Zoning Adjustment, that the owner,
homeowners association, or agent thereof, will assume maintenance
responsibilities for all private utility systems.
   (J)   Dwelling, townhouse.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Townhouse residences may be permitted as a
conditional use in the R-6 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Townhouse residential development as
conditional use shall comply with dimensional requirements as specified in §
157.208.
      (3)   Location within zoning districts.
         (a)   It is the intent of this conditional use to provide a buffer
between intense land uses and low density single-family residences. To that
extent the Board of Zoning Adjustment may permit conditionally townhouses at
the fringe of a low density residential zone where it abuts more intense and/or
incompatible land use. The Board may further permit such density housing near
the intersection of two major streets where highway traffic may not be
conducive to single-family residential development.
         (b)   This conditional use is not intended to change the character of
the R-6 Zoning District to one of higher density development, Therefore, such
conditional use shall be allowed only for the single zoning lot or development.
Thereafter, the permitted conditional use will be considered a compatible land
use within the R-6 District.
      (4)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be in compliance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (5)   Landscaping and buffers. Townhouse development as a conditional use
shall comply with the landscaping and buffer requirements of §§
157.085 through
157.091. In addition, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may require a vegetative
buffer strip or screen where this proposed development abuts low density
existing or future housing.
      (6)   Other requirements. No more than four townhouse units may be
constructed under the provisions of this conditional use per zoning lot or
development.
   (K)   Emergency services.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Emergency services facilities may be permitted
as a conditional use in all residential zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Emergency service facilities shall comply
with the yard, lot and height requirements of the district in which they are
located.
      (3)   Landscaping and buffers. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may require
a vegetative buffer and/or screen as it deems necessary to retain the character
of the affected zoning district.
   (L)   Flammable of hazardous chemical: bulk storage above ground.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Above ground bulk storage facilities for
flammable and hazardous chemicals may be permitted as conditional uses in the
I-1 and I-2 Industrial Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The minimum lot area, width and setback
requirements shall be the same as for the I-1 Light Industrial District, unless
provided otherwise herein. No tank constructed above ground, nor basin or dike,
nor truck loading dock shall not be located closer than 20 feet to a property
or street right-of-way line.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading areas shall be
provided as required by §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively. Vehicular access to the facility shall be provided in
such a manner so as not to require the use of residential streets.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required by §§
157.085 through
157.091. In all instances, a chain link fence shall be provided to completely
enclose and secure the loading and storage facilities.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   The proposed storage and loading facilities as well as any
warehousing structures shall conform to the requirements of applicable federal,
state, and local laws.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide with the site development plan: the
layout of the entire project including the location of buildings, storage
tanks, loading facilities, pumps and other apparatus. The plan shall show the
storage tank location, design, diameter, height and storage capacity as well as
the location, height, storage capacity and method of construction of dike
systems. A statement of the fuels to be stored in each tank shall be included
on the plan.
   (M)   Flammable of hazardous chemicals: bulk storage below ground.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Underground bulk storage facilities for
hazardous and flammable chemicals may be permitted as conditional uses in the
B-2 General Business and the I-1 and I-2 Industrial Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The minimum lot area, width, and setback
requirements shall be the same as for the zoning district in which the facility
is located, unless provided otherwise herein. All storage tanks, loading
facilities, pumps and other appurtenances shall be located at least 20 feet
from any property or street right-of-way line.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading areas shall be
provided as required by §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Other requirements.
         (a)   The proposed storage and loading facilities as well as any
warehousing structures shall conform to the requirements of applicable federal,
state, and local laws.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide a report, completely describing the
types of materials stored.
   (N)   Group care home.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Group homes with more than four residents may
be permitted as a conditional use in the R-4, the B-3 Downtown Business, and
the P-H Public Hospital zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. A group home shall comply with the lot,
yard and height requirements of the district in which such facility is located.
Additional yard requirements may be set by the Board to protect the group home
residents and to preserve the neighborhood character of the surrounding area.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may require
a vegetative buffer and/or screen as it deems necessary to retain the
neighborhood character of the surrounding area and to protect the group home
residents.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Group care facilities shall be allowed only when licensed by an
appropriate state or local agency. If such licensing is contingent upon the
approval of the city, the issuance of a conditional use permit shall be
conditioned upon obtaining the required license within 90 days after approval
of the permit.
         (b)   In order to prevent concentration of group care facilities to
the detriment of the group home residents and the impaction of a residential
block or neighborhood, the Board shall exercise care in considering a request
to establish a group care facility. In no instance shall the Board approve a
proposed group care facility which would be located within 1,500 feet of
another facility or similar institution.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide a written statement addressing each
of the following items:
            1.   The number of staff personnel to reside and/or work in the
facility, with their backgrounds and qualifications;
            2.   The number of individuals to be housed in the facility (not
counting the staff personnel) and their backgrounds, ages, sex and the like. If
this information is not known, the applicant shall explain the purpose of the
facility and the purpose of group home residency;
            3.   The estimated length of stay for individuals in the facility;
            4.   The intake criteria which have been or will be used in
screening the persons who will live in and benefit from the facility; and
            5.   The applicant shall provide a floor plan of the group care
facility, drawn to scale, and showing the use and dimensions of each room and
the location of entrances and exits.
   (O)   Industrial operations (not specifically listed in the table of
permitted uses (§ 157.207)).
      (1)   Permitted districts. Industrial operations may be permitted on a
conditional basis in the I-1 Light Industrial and the I-2 Heavy Industrial
Zoning Districts. The potential for community nuisances created by such
operations will allow the Board of Adjustment to determine whether such
operations are “light” or “heavy” industrial, in light of the purpose
statements for each district (§
157.020).
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for
industrial operations as conditional uses shall be the same as the I-1 or I-
2 Districts (§
157.208). The Board of Zoning Adjustment may, however, require additional yard
requirements for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. Such
greater yard requirements shall be based upon the nature of the industrial
operation and the proximity of the facility to surrounding structures and land
uses (existing or future).
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading areas shall be
provided as required by §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required by §§
157.085 through
157.091.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   No industrial operation shall be permitted which may become an
annoyance or nuisance by reason of unsightliness or the excessive emission of
noise, dust, odor, fumes or particulates. Determination of whether a proposed
establishment may be objectionable shall be the judgement of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment.
         (b)   Industrial operations which contain, utilize or manufacture
products or materials considered hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion shall conform to national, state and local fire codes. Where such
codes conflict with this chapter or each other, the more restrictive shall
apply.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide a report, in writing, completely
describing the proposed operation, including the types of products and
materials used in the manufacturing process, and finished products and
materials.
   (P)   Keeping of animals, non-household.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Keeping of animals, non-household may be
permitted as a conditional use by educational institutions located in the R-
6 and R-5 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The keeping of animals, non-household
shall comply with the dimensional requirements of the district in which the use
is located; provided, however, that the lot must have at least five contiguous
acres, and that no coop or other enclosure for the animals be closer than 200
feet from any property line.
      (3)   Other requirements.
         (a)   A conditional use permit may be issued to an educational
institution seeking to keep domesticated hens on school grounds for educational
purposes. A DOMESTICATED HEN shall mean a female chicken and does not include
any other type of fowl or a male chicken.
         (b)   An educational institution may keep no more than 12 domesticated
hens.
         (c)   All domesticated hens maintained for educational purposes shall
be maintained in sanitary conditions that prevent excessive offensive odors
from becoming a source of discomfort to persons living in the vicinity, and
that prevent an inordinate amount of flies from existing and breeding.
         (d)   Ground feeding shall be prohibited. A feeding container shall be
used for feeding and all unused or unconsumed food shall be adequately secured
and stored after every feeding as to prevent access by other animals or
rodents. All feeding shall be conducted in a manner as to prevent unconsumed
food to be le ft open or accessible by other animals or rodents.
   (Q)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Mobile home parks are permitted as conditional
uses in all residential zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   Minimum tract size shall be three acres.
         (b)   Minimum tract frontage shall be 100 feet along a public road.
         (c)   Mobile home sites and park structures shall be set back at least
50 feet from any abutting public street right-of-way line; and at least 30 feet
from any other abutting property line.
         (d)   Each mobile home space shall have an area of at least 4,000
square feet.
      (3)   Roads. Private, hard surface roads are required within a mobile
home park. Each mobile home space shall be directly accessible from an internal
private road, with no direct access to public streets. Layout and construction
of the private roads shall be approved by the Director of Public Works and City
Engineer.
      (4)   Utilities. Each mobile home park created under this conditional use
shall be provided with an approved public water supply and sewage disposal
system, and shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Parking. Each mobile home space shall be provided with one off-
street parking space, located conveniently to the mobile home space.
      (6)   Recreation. Not less than 10% of the area of each mobile home park
shall be developed for active and passive recreation, including children’s
equipment and a fenced tot lot. Required setbacks and laundry drying yards
shall not be considered recreation areas.
      (7)   Pedestrian access. Walkways, two feet wide for individual mobile
home space and three feet wide for common areas shall be provided. They shall
be smooth surfaced with asphalt, concrete, or gravel; and shall be free from
mud, dust and standing water at all times. All roads serving more than 15
mobile homes spaces shall have a three-foot wide sidewalk along one side of the
road.
      (8)   Individual mobile home spaces.
         (a)   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other by not less than
30 feet in all directions, and 40 feet when located on opposite sides of an
internal road. Expandable rooms, double-wides, and additions to mobile homes
shall be considered integral parts of the structure for these spacing
requirements.
         (b)   Mobile home stands shall be provided with anchorage and each
mobile home shall be anchored.
         (c)   Each mobile home shall be curtained around its base. Such
curtain shall be completely enclosed to control rodent harborage.
         (d)   No storage shall be allowed on or around a mobile home space
other than in completely enclosed storage facilities.
      (9)   Refuse and debris.
         (a)   All refuse shall be stored in water tight, rodent-proof
containers; which shall be located within 100 feet of each mobile home space
and common structures.
         (b)   Mobile home parks shall be maintained free of debris and
undergrowth.
         (c)   Refuse shall be collected on a regular basis to assure a healthy
and safe residential environment.
      (10)   Accessory uses. Self-service laundries and community centers may
be included in a mobile home park; provided they are operated for the
convenience of the park’s residents, and that no signs regarding such accessory
uses shall be visible from outside the park’s borders.
   (R)   Natural resources extraction.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Natural resources extraction may be permitted
as a conditional use in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. No excavation shall take place closer
than 50 feet to any property line, street right-of-way line, or shore line of
any watercourse, and no drilling shall take place within 15 feet of such lines.
      (3)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Access to and from the site shall be provided so as to assure
that the traffic flow on any adjacent street or highway will not be impeded.
         (b)   Any temporary or permanent building used in connection with this
operation shall meet the setback requirements of the zoning district in which
the property is located. No such building shall be occupied for residential
purposes.
         (c)   The loading of trucks shall be accomplished in such a way to
prevent spillage on any street or roads.
         (d)   Upon termination of the operation, all buildings and equipment
shall be removed, all excavation areas shall be graded so as to provide for
natural drainage, and vegetation shall be planted to prevent erosion.
         (e)   Any blasting operations in connection with the use shall be
conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Blasting shall be performed in such a
manner as to protect neighboring properties from flying debris.
         (f)   No extractive operations shall interfere with the natural
drainage flow of the area, endanger any surrounding property, or cause undue
vibration, noise or wind-blown dust or sand.
         (g)   The entire area of operation shall be enclosed by a six-foot
fence to make the area inaccessible to the general public.
      (4)   Plan requirements. The applicant shall provide a site plan drawn to
scale, showing the following:
         (a)   The dimensions and acreage of the site and its relation to
surrounding properties and streets;
         (b)   The topography of the site at contour intervals of two feet
indicating existing contours as well as proposed contours after the excavation
has occurred;
         (c)   The plan for rehabilitation of the site after the excavation,
describing the areas to be refilled, topsoiled and seeded;
         (d)   An estimate of the total volume of soil and other materials to
be removed from the site and the length of time requested to conduct the
operation;
         (e)   All existing utility lines, water courses, and drainage
easements; and
         (f)   Title, north arrow, scale, name of owner, surveyor and the date
of plan preparation.
   (S)   Nursing homes.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Nursing homes may be permitted as conditional
uses in the R-5, R-4, B-1 and B-3 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Nursing homes, shall comply with the
dimensional requirements of the district in which the facility is located.
Additional yard requirements may be set by the Board to preserve the
neighborhood character of the area, and to protect the home residents.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §§ 157.080 through
157.086. The Board may require additional landscaping/buffers in order to
protect home residents and the surrounding neighborhood character.
   (T)   Public utility substation/stations.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Public utility substations/stations may be
permitted as conditional uses in the R-12, R-6, R-5, R-4, B-1, B-3 and P-
H Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The setback of any building or structure,
or any use instituted, shall be a minimum of 25 feet, or the required setbacks
of the district, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers.
         (a)   Portions of properties not used for facilities, parking or
related services shall be maintained with grass or other suitable ground cover.
         (b)   A durable wall, fence or hedge or other natural planting shall
be provided along the exterior property lines of any lot within residential
districts, and along any exterior property line that adjoins any lot in
residential districts. Such wall, fence or hedge shall be at least six feet in
height, measured from the ground along the lot lines of adjoining properties.
Hedges or comparable natural planting shall be planted at an initial height of
at least three feet and shall be of such variety that an average height of six
feet could be expected by normal growth within two years from the time of
planting.
         (c)   Where hedges or other natural landscape materials are used, a
six-foot high chain fence shall be erected inside the hedge to make the
facility inaccessible to the general public.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Whenever possible, facilities should be located on interior
properties, rather than on properties aligned with other lots of continuous
street frontage.
         (b)   The design of buildings, structures and facilities on the site
shall conform as closely as possible to the character of the area or
neighborhood, so that facilities or structures will not adversely affect the
safe and comfortable enjoyment of nearby properties.
         (c)   Outdoor storage shall be completely screened from view of
adjoining properties and streets.
   (U)   Recreation facilities: public and non-profit.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Public and non- profit recreation facilities
may be permitted as conditional uses in all residential and the B-1 Zoning
Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for public
and non-profit recreational facilities as conditional uses shall be the same as
for zoning district in which the property is located unless provided otherwise
herein.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be in compliance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Public and non-profit recreation
facilities as conditional uses shall comply with the landscaping and buffer
requirements of §§
157.085 through
157.091. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may, in addition, require further
landscaping in order to protect the residential character of surrounding
properties.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Noise emanating from the amusement shall be governed by the
following provisions.
            1.   Every use and activity shall be operated so that regularly
recurring noises are not disturbing or unreasonably loud, and do not cause
injury or detriment to surrounding properties.
            2.   Every use and activity shall be so operated that regularly
recurring noises, as detected by the human sense of hearing, without
instrument, at adjoining residential property lines, shall not exceed the
normal noise level generated by uses permitted in residential districts.
         (b)   Lighting, if provided, shall be so designed and located to be
directed away from residential areas or shielded to protect them.
         (c)   The vehicular traffic generated by such a facility shall be of a
volume which will not create any safety hazards, or disrupt the residential
character of the neighborhood.
         (d)   The applicant shall provide a statement detailing the proposed
activities and uses of the grounds and facilities.
   (V)   Recreational facilities: for profit.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Recreation facilities operated for profit may
be permitted as a conditional use in the B-1 and B-2 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for this
conditional use shall be the same a for the zoning district in which the
property is located, unless provided otherwise herein.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be in compliance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.131, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required by §§
157.085 through
157.091. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may require additional landscaping in
order to protect the neighborhood character.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Noise emanating from the amusement shall be governed by the
following provisions.
            1.   Every use and activity shall be operated so that regular
recurring noises are not disturbing or unreasonably loud, and do not cause
injury or detriment to surrounding properties.
            2.   Every use and activity shall be so operated that regularly
recurring noises, as detected by the human sense of hearing, without
instruments, at adjoining property lines, shall not exceed the normal noise
level generated by uses permitted in the zoning district.
         (b)   Lighting, if provided, shall be so designed and located as to be
directed away from residential areas or shielded to protect them.
         (c)   Vehicular access to the site shall be provided from major
streets and not residential local streets.
         (d)   The applicant shall provide a statement detailing the proposed
activities and uses of the grounds and facilities.
   (W)   Temporary uses (not otherwise addressed by other provisions).
      (1)   Permitted districts. Temporary uses may be permitted as conditional
uses in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements shall be the
same as for the zoning district in which the temporary use is to be located.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be
provided as required by §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Temporary uses are exempt from the
landscaping and buffer requirements of §§
157.085 through
157.091; provided, however, that the Board of Zoning Adjustment may require
appropriate screening when necessary to protect surrounding or adjacent
residential uses.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Temporary uses, as conditional uses, shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
            1.   The uses of open land for revivals, circuses and carnivals; or
the sale of Christmas trees, baked goods, or collected clothing, produce, and
the like, if no structure is erected other than tents or booths; and
            2.   The use of a building and surrounding land by any non-profit,
charitable, religious, or educational organization for the purpose of
exhibiting and purveying, indoor or out-of-door, arts, and crafts, products,
jewelry, clothing, foods, beverages, horticultural specimens, home furnishings
and decorations, and similar or related items; and for presenting musical or
theatrical programs.
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall take into account the
adverse effect, if any, of the temporary use on its neighbors and the public;
the temporary nature of the use; the necessity of the use; the hardship of the
owner; the zoning of the property and the surrounding area; and any other
relevant factors in the particular circumstances.
         (c)   The temporary use permitted under this division (V) shall be
limited to the uses as specified by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
         (d)   Each applicant shall furnish assurances that at the termination
of the temporary use permit, all properties of every nature moved onto the site
under the permit shall be removed, and that no unsightly residue of property or
land displacements shall be allowed to remain on the site.
         (e)   The temporary use shall not involve the use of advertising signs
on any site located in a residential zoning district, other than one small (ten
square feet) announcement sign, unilluminated. In all other zoning districts,
signs shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 158 of this code of
ordinances for the district in which the use is to be located.
         (f)   The duration of the temporary use shall be specified on the
permit issued by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. A conditional use permit,
granted for a temporary use, is not intended as a means to circumvent the use
restrictions of individual zoning districts. Therefore, a temporary use permit
issued under these provisions shall not be valid for more than six consecutive
weeks, nor 12 non-consecutive weeks within any 12-month period.
      (6)   Conditional use permit. A conditional use permit is not required
for a temporary use which meets all three of the following circumstances: the
use is permitted as-of-right or under a valid conditional use permit; it is
housed in a permanent structure designed for such a use; and adequate off-
street parking is available. Further, a conditional use permit is not required:
residential yard sales as defined by the City Commission; door-to-door
solicitations; and public activities approved by the City Commission on public
lands.
      (7)   Non-profit organizations. Non-profit organizations are exempt from
the conditional use permit application fee of $100.
   (X)   Transmission tower and antenna, commercial.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Installation of a commercial transmission
tower may be permitted as a conditional use in the R-12 Zoning District.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Commercial transmission towers shall
comply with the dimensional requirements of the district in which it is
located. In addition, the applicant shall comply with the provisions of §
157.045.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §§
157.085 through
157.091.
      (5)   Other requirements. No outdoor storage is allowed with this
conditional use.
   (Y)   Professional services use of historic structures.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Professional services uses may be permitted as
conditional uses in historic structures in the R-4, R-5 and R-6 Zoning
Districts.
      (2)   Permitted properties. Utilization of this conditional use category
is additionally limited to structures which are individually listed in the
National Register of Historic Places; or designated as “significant” structures
within a National Register of Historic Places Historic District.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for
professional services uses of historic structures as conditional uses shall be
the same as for residential uses within the permitted district. However, the
Board may impose additional or greater dimensional restrictions in order to
maintain the historic setting of the subject property and surrounding area, and
to maintain the primarily residential character of the neighborhood.
      (4)   Parking and loading. Stated parking and loading requirements will
be waived for this conditional use category and replaced with the following. On
a case by case basis, off-street parking must be provided based on the demand
generated by the applicant. All needed parking shall be provided off the
street. Parking may be provided off the subject property as per division (W)(3)
of this zoning ordinance. All aspects of provided parking shall be reviewed and
approved by the Board with the objectives of maintaining the historic character
of the subject property and surrounding area, and maintaining the primarily
residential character of the neighborhood. Loading berths will not be required;
the nonresidential use proposed shall not be at such a scale to need large
scale deliveries.
   (Z)   Communication antenna attachments/rooftop communication facilities.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Installation of a commercial antenna
attachment/rooftop facility may be permitted as a conditional use in the B-
3 Zoning District. They shall be considered as accessory uses to existing
structures and uses.
      (2)   Definition. Facilities or antennas that are located on rooftops or
attached to an existing structure that contain communication equipment,
transmission or reception, and are used to transmit or receive radio frequency
signals utilized by commercial, governmental or other public or quasi-public
organizations. These facilities will be limited to antennas, panels, equipment
cabinets and support lines. Transmission towers are specifically prohibited
from this classification.
      (3)   General standards. The following standards shall apply.
         (a)   These facilities may be placed on rooftops and existing
structures only.
         (b)   They may not extend in excess of ten feet above the highest
finished rooftop elevation.
         (c)   They may not extend more than three feet from the facade of the
building and may not encroach into required setbacks.
         (d)   They may not exceed six feet in height, three feet in width and
one foot in depth.
         (e)   Equipment cabinets may not be visible from the base of the
building.
         (f)   There shall be no advertising signage placed on these
facilities.
         (g)   They shall be as architecturally similar in design as possible
to the exterior appearance of the structure to which they are attached.
         (h)   They shall not alter or change the intent of the structure or
building design.
         (i)   These facilities shall be designed to current applicable
building standards and wind load requirements.
         (j)   All such facilities shall be reviewed and approved by the Board
of Zoning Adjustment prior to the issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance form.
   (AA)   Warehousing; mini-storage.
      (1)   Permitted districts. Mini-storage warehouses are permitted as
conditional use in the B-1 Zoning District.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Mini-storage warehouses, shall comply
with the dimensional requirements of the district in which the facility is
located.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall comply with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffer shall be provided
as required in §§
157.085 through
157.091.
      (5)   Signs. Signs shall be in compliance with Chapter 158 of this code
of ordinances.
      (6)   Other requirements. No outdoor storage is allowed with this
conditional use.
   (BB)   Indoor gun range.
      (1)   Permitted districts. An indoor gun range may be permitted as a
conditional use in the I-1, I-2 and B-2 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements for this use
shall be the same as for the zoning district in which the property is located,
unless provided otherwise herein.
      (3)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be in compliance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
      (4)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided
as required in §§
157.085 through
157.091.
      (5)   Noise. Noise emanating from the use shall be governed by the
following.
         (a)   Every use and activity shall be operated so that regular
recurring noises are not disturbing or unreasonably loud, and do not cause
injury or detriment to surrounding properties.
         (b)   The use must comply with all provisions of Chapter 94 of this
code of ordinances.
      (6)   Lighting. If provided, lighting shall be so designed and located as
to be directed away from residential areas or shielded to protect them.
      (7)   Vehicular access. Vehicular access to the site shall be provided
from major streets and not residential local streets.
      (8)   Statement. The applicant shall provide a statement detailing the
proposed activities and uses of the grounds and facilities as well as all
safety and security measures as well as the disposal of waste.
      (9)   Projectiles. Buildings shall be constructed in such a fashion as to
prohibit any projectile from exiting the building.
      (10)   Facility requirements. Facilities shall make use of all safety
required under state and federal statutes and regulations and comply with NRA
recommended codes for sight and hearing protection.
(Prior Code, § 157.178) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 24-1987, passed
2-18-1987; Ord. 144-1990, passed 11-19-1990; Ord. 6-1995, passed 1-19-1995;
Ord. 6-1999, passed 1-21-1999; Ord. 128-1999, passed 11-4-1999; Ord. 144-1999,
passed 12-16-1999; Ord. 77-2016, passed 6-23-2016; Ord. 100-2017, passed 10-12-
2017; Ord. 39-2018, passed 3-8-2018; Res. 12, 2021, passed 6-10-2021; Ord. 116,
2021, passed 8-26-2021; Ord. 21, 2024, passed 2-8-2024)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 157.195 R-12 RESIDENTIAL/LOW DENSITY.
   Within the R-12 Residential zoning district as shown on the official zoning
map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following minimum
requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(1)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a R-12 Zoning District shall
be used and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the R-12 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a R-12 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208 or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Sign shall be permitted as regulated by Chapter 158
of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.190) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.196 R-6 RESIDENTIAL/MEDIUM DENSITY.
   Within the R-6 Residential Zoning District as shown on the official zoning
map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following minimum
requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(2))
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in an R-6 Zoning District shall
be used, and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the R-6 column of the table in §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a R-6 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.191) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.197 R-5 RESIDENTIAL/MEDIUM DENSITY.
   Within the R-5 Residential Zoning District as shown on the official zoning
map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following minimum
requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(3)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a R-5 Zoning District shall be
used and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged, or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the R-5 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a R-5 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard, and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.192) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.198 R-4 RESIDENTIAL/HIGH DENSITY.
   Within the R-4 Residential Zoning District as shown on the official zoning
map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following minimum
requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(4)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a R-4 Zoning District shall be
used and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the R-4 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a R-4 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.193) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.199 P-H PUBLIC/HOSPITAL.
   Within the P-H Public Hospital Zoning District as shown on the official
zoning map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following
minimum requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(10)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a P-H Zoning District shall be
used and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the P-H column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a P-H Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208 or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.194) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.200 B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS.
   Within the B-1 Neighborhood Business Zoning District as shown on the
official zoning map, all development and land uses shall comply with the
following minimum requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(5)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a B-1 Zoning District shall be
used, and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the B-1 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a B-1 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208 or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.195) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.201 B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS.
   Within the B-2 Zoning District as shown on the official zoning map, all
development and land uses shall comply with the following minimum requirements,
and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(6)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a B-2 Zoning District shall be
used and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the B-2 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a B-2 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided in
accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.196) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.202 B-3 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS.
   Within the B-3 Downtown Business Zoning District as shown on the official
zoning map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following
minimum requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(7)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in a B-3 Zoning District shall be
used, and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the B-3 column §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in a B-3 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yards rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in Accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.197) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.203 I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   Within the I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District as shown on the official
zoning map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following
minimum requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(8)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in an I-1 Zoning District shall
be used, and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the I-1 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in an I-1 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard, and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Other requirements. No discernable glare, noise, dust, fumes or odors
(in excess of that likely to occur in the other zoning districts) shall be
discernable from adjacent nonindustrial districts.
(Prior Code, § 157.198) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.204 I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL.
   Within the I-2 Heavy Industrial Zoning District as shown on the official
zoning map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following
minimum requirements, and with the district intent statement (§
157.020(B)(9)).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in an I-2 Zoning District shall
be used, and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the I-2 column of §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in an I-2 Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with the lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffer requirements. Landscaping and buffers shall be
provided in accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
   (E)   Sign requirements. Signs shall be permitted as regulated by
Chapter 158 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 157.199) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.205 R-E RESIDENTIAL ESTATE.
   Within the R-E Residential Estate Zoning District as shown on the official
zoning map, all development and land uses shall comply with the following
minimum requirements, and with the district intent statement, §
157.020(B)(11).
   (A)   Permitted and conditional uses. Land in an R-E Zoning District shall
be used and buildings shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used only for the
permitted or conditional uses indicated in the R-E column of the table of
permitted and conditional uses, §
157.207.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Land in an R-E Zoning District shall be
developed and used only in compliance with lot area, lot width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard and lot coverage standards indicated in the table of
dimensional requirements, §
157.208, or as otherwise provided by other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and loading areas
shall be provided in accordance with §§
157.105 through
157.110 and §§
157.125 through
157.130, respectively.
   (D)   Landscaping and buffers. Landscaping and buffers shall be provided in
accordance with §§
157.085 through
157.091.
(Prior Code, § 157.200) (Ord. 9-1993, passed 1-29-1993)
§ 157.206 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Planned Unit Development District is to
encourage flexibility in the development of land in order to promote its most
appropriate use; to improve the design, character and quality of new
development; to facilitate the provision of streets and utilities; and to
preserve the natural and scenic features of open space.
      (2)   This district is best suited to undeveloped areas, where “planned
unit development” is a superior response to less coordinated development, as
permitted elsewhere in this chapter. It is also an appropriate response in
relatively large areas undergoing redevelopment.
   (B)   District requirements. In order to qualify as a Planned Unit
Development District, a project request must meet the following minimum
requirements.
      (1)   The site must contain not less than one-half acre and have a
minimum width between any two opposite boundary lines of 125 feet, and must
adjoin or have direct access to at least one public street. However, the
Planning Commission and City Commission may reduce this requirement by 25% to
encourage better design and site application of PUD Districts.
      (2)   The site shall be in one ownership, or if in several ownerships,
the application for amendment to the zoning regulations shall be filed jointly
by all of the owners.
      (3)   At the time of application for rezoning, the site shall not be
divided by any public right-of-way, unless all tracts so divided contain the
minimum site size for a PUD: off-site parking shall not be used in the
calculation of the minimum site size and is therefore, excluded from this
requirement.
      (4)   A site plan shall be submitted with the request for change and
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The proposed title of the project and the name of the engineer,
architects, designer, or landscape architect, and the developer;
         (b)   The northpoint, scale and date. The scale of the site plan shall
not be more than 50 feet to one inch;
         (c)   Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries and proposed
changes;
         (d)   The boundaries of the property involved, the general location of
all existing easements, property lines, existing streets, buildings and other
existing physical features on or adjoining the project;
         (e)   The approximate location and sizes of existing and proposed
sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
facilities in or near the project on a topographic map using contour lines at
appropriate intervals;
         (f)   The general location and dimensions of construction of proposed
streets, alleys, driveways, curb cuts, entrances and exits, parking and loading
areas (including number of parking and loading spaces);
         (g)   The general location of proposed lots, setback lines, easements
and a generalized land use plan;
         (h)   The location and approximate heights of all proposed main and
accessory buildings and dimensions of structures drawn to scale;
         (i)   Identification of all lands in private or common ownership;
         (j)   General location, height, width and material of all fences,
walls, screens, plantings and landscaping;
         (k)   Proposed location and number of dwelling units (by bedroom type)
for each structure;
         (l)   General location, character, size and height or orientation of
proposed signs; and
         (m)   The Planning Commission and City Commission may establish
additional requirements for site plan approval, and in specific cases, may
waive a particular requirement, if, in their opinion, the inclusion of that
requirement is not essential to a proper assessment of the project.
      (5)   In addition to the above, an application for a PUD District shall
be accompanied by:
         (a)   Proposed standards for the development of the project, including
restrictions on the use of property, density standards, yard requirements and
restrictive covenants, if any;
         (b)   A statement defining the manner in which the city is to be
assured that all improvements and protective devices are to be installed and
maintained; and
         (c)   A construction schedule. In any case where a planned unit
development which has been denied wholly or in part by the City Commission
shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of said order of
denial except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of change of conditions.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Any use proposed by the developer and considered by
the Planning Commission and City Commission as being compatible to other nearby
uses within and beyond the district may be permitted in such district, upon the
approval by the Planning Commission and City Commission. A listing of permitted
uses within a particular PUD district shall be adopted as part of the
regulations applying to that district. After approval by the Planning
Commission and City Commission, the list or portion thereof shall be adopted as
part of the regulations applying to that particular PUD District. Thereafter,
the uses permitted in the district shall be restricted to those listed,
approved and adopted.
   (D)   General design criteria and development standards.
      (1)   Overall site design shall be harmonious in terms of landscaping,
enclosure of principal and accessory uses, sizes of structures, street
patterns, and use relationships. Variety in building types, setbacks and size
of open spaces shall be encouraged.
      (2)   Parking requirements for each PUD district shall be assessed based
upon common parking standards and parking standards contained in this chapter.
Areas designated for parking and loading or for trafficways shall be physically
separated from streets by suitable barriers against unchanneled motor vehicles
ingress and egress.
      (3)   Fifteen percent of each project shall be developed into common open
space and no more than 75% of any lot or parcel shall have an impervious
surface. Regulation golf courses shall be excluded from the total acreage in
determining that 15%.
      (4)   Signage within PUD Districts will be harmonious with the proposed
uses and will be architecturally integrated with the overall project design.
Actual allowed signage within a PUD District will be determined at the time a
particular PUD District is established or amended. Moreover, it is generally
not the intent to allow signage of greater intensity than would be allowed
similar uses within other zoning districts.
   (E)   Administrative procedures.
      (1)   Requests for PUD zoning shall be as provided for amendments
generally. Any request pertaining to the establishment of a PUD District shall
be considered an amendment to the zoning ordinance, and shall be administered
and processed in accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
157.260 through
157.267. The City Commission may approve the request in accordance with the
site plan and other applicable regulations, may make specific modifications to
the plan or may deny the request. The final action shall occur following a
public hearing and recommendation held by the Planning Commission. No
application for a planned unit development which has been denied wholly or in
part by the City Commission shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from
the date of said order of denial except on the grounds of new evidence or proof
of change or conditions.
      (2)   Once a PUD District is established on the official zoning map, no
building permit shall be issued therein unless approved plans and reports for
the development as a whole or in stages or portions thereof are deemed
satisfactory in relation to the total development. The form and content of such
site plans and reports shall be as prescribed in the zoning, subdivision
regulations and other regulations involved generally, and in rules of other
affected agencies.
      (3)   Upon approval by the City Commission, one copy of the site plan and
the PUD agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Boyd County Clerk of
Court.
      (4)   Building permits shall then be issued in the same manner as for
building permits generally. Except as provided below, the plans and reports
approved shall be binding on the applicant and any successors in the title so
long as the PUD zoning is applicable.
   (F)   Changes and modifications.
      (1)   Minor changes in the planned unit development may be approved by
the Planning Commission or its designated agent provided that such changes:
         (a)   Do not increase the densities;
         (b)   Do not change the outside (exterior) boundaries;
         (c)   Do not change any use; however, a change from multi-family
residential to single-family residential shall be considered a minor change
provided densities are not increased;
         (d)   Do not materially change the location or amount of land devoted
to specific land uses;
         (e)   Do not significantly change the exterior appearance from those
shown on any plans which may be submitted or presented by the developers; and
         (f)   Minor changes may include, but are not limited to: minor
shifting of the location of buildings, proposed streets, public or private
ways, utility easements, parks or other open spaces, or other features of the
plan.
      (2)   Major changes in the planned unit development shall be treated as
amendments to the ordinance, and shall only be approved subject to rezoning
requirements. Major changes may include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Increases in density;
         (b)   Changes in boundary lines;
         (c)   Changes in land use;
         (d)   Changes in location or amount of land devoted to specific land
uses; and
         (e)   Changes that significantly alter the appearance of structures.
   (G)   Public facilities, surety, cost, fees and charges. All public
facilities and improvements made necessary as a result of the planned unit
development shall be either constructed in advance of the approval of the final
plat, or, at the discretion of the City Manager, escrow deposits, irrevocable
letters of credit (in a form approved by the City Manager) or performance bonds
shall be delivered to guarantee construction of the required improvements. Any
such guarantee shall be 125% of the estimated installed cost.
   (H)   Maintenance. In the event that the organization established to own and
maintain common open space, recreation areas and related facilities, or any
successor organization, shall at any time after establishment of the planned
unit development fail to maintain the common open space, recreation areas and
related facilities in reasonable (as per the intent of the specific PUD
District section) order and condition, in accordance with the plan, the city
may serve written notice upon such organization or upon the residents of the
planned unit development setting forth the manner in which the organization has
failed to maintain the space in the reasonable condition and said notice shall
include the following:
      (1)   A demand that such deficiencies of maintenance be rectified within
30 days; and
      (2)   If such deficiencies are not rectified within said 30 days, the
city shall serve notice of hearing. Said notice shall state the date and place
of the hearing and shall be sent by registered mail not less than five days nor
more than ten days prior to the hearing date. At the hearing, if the city finds
the deficiencies cannot be rectified by the responsible party, the city in
order to preserve the taxable values of the properties within the planned unit
development, and to prevent the common open space from becoming a public
nuisance, may enter upon said property and maintain the same for a period of
one year. Said entry and maintenance shall not vest in the public any right to
use the common open space or recreation areas when the same is voluntarily
dedicated to the public by the owner. Before the expiration of said year, the
city shall, upon its initiative or upon the request of the organization
theretofore responsible for the maintenance of the common open space, call a
public hearing upon notice of such organization, or to the residents of the
planned development to show cause when such maintenance by the city shall not,
at the election of the city, continue for a succeeding year. If the City
Commission determines that such organization is not ready and able to maintain
said common space and recreation areas in a reasonable condition, the city may
in its discretion continue to maintain such common open space during the next
succeeding year and subject to a similar hearing and determination in each year
thereafter. The decision of the City Commission in any case shall constitute a
final administrative decision, subject to review in accordance with appropriate
provisions of this section. The cost of such maintenance by the city shall be
assessed ratably against the properties within the planned unit development
that has a right of enjoyment of the common open space and recreation space.
The city may pursue such payment by appropriate legal action.
(Prior Code, § 157.200.1) (Ord. 6-1999, passed 1-21-1999)
§ 157.207 TABLE OF PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Within the various districts as indicated on the official zoning map
of the city, no land, building, or structure shall be used, and no buildings or
structure shall be erected or altered, except in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. Any use not specifically permitted or prohibited is
prohibited. Where more than one use occupies a building or premises, the zoning
requirements for each use shall be adhered to as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Districts in which particular uses are permitted as a use-by-right are
indicated by a “P” in this table.
   (C)   Districts in which particular uses are permitted as a conditional use,
upon approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, are indicated by a “C,” which
directs the reader to §
157.183 for more information about such a conditional use.
   (D)   Districts in which particular uses are prohibited are indicated by a
blank space in the following table.
   (E)   The zoning districts are as follows:
R-12 Residential/Low Density
R-6  Residential/Medium Density
R-5  Residential/Medium Density
R-4  Residential/High Density
B-1  Neighborhood Business
B-2  General Business
B-3  Downtown Business
I-1  Light Industrial
I-2  Heavy Industrial
P-H  Public/Hospital
R-E  Residential/Estate
Permitted Uses Zoning Districts
               R-12 R-6 R-5 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2 P-H R-E
                                         Zoning Districts
Permitted Uses                           R- R- R- R- B- B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2 P-H R-E
                                         12 6  5  4  1
Accessory structures and uses. See §§
157.035—                               P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P   P   P   P
157.052
Adult uses                                                  C
Alcoholic beverages, packaged retail                    P   P
sales
Alcoholic beverages, wholesale                          P       P
distribution
Animals, non- household, for personal
use
Animals, non- household, for personal
use with a non-profit recreation use,    P
not to be within 500 ft. of another
residential district
Animals, non-household, for educational        C  C
institutions
Animal hospital, veterinary clinic (no                  P   P   P
outdoor animal storage)
Animal/per boarding, kennel                                 C       C
Animal rendering operation                                              P
Antique shop                                            P   P   P
Apparel and accessories, retail sales                   P   P   P
Apparel manufacture                                                 P   P
Armory                                                      P       P
Art gallery, museum                               C  C  P   P   P
Assembly hall, stadium                                      P   P
Auction sales                                               P   P   P
Auto parking lots, with permitted use    P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P   P   P   P
Auto parking lots, commercial                               P   P   P
Auto repair and body work, excluding
outdoor storage of junk vehicles or                         P   P   P
parts
Auto sales, new and used                                    P   P   P
Auto service station                                    P   P   P   P   P
Auto washing operation                                      P       P
Baking, production and wholesale                                    P   P
Baking, retail sales of on-premises                     P   P   P   P
production
Bank, financial institution                             P   P   P
Barber and beauty shop                                  P   P   P           P
Bed and breakfast                                 C
Beekeeping operations                    C  C  C  C  C
Boarding house                                 P  P         P           P
Boats and accessories, retail sales and                 P   P   P
service
Bottling operation                                              P   P
Bowling alley                                           P   P
Bus terminal                                            P   P   P
Building materials, sales and storage                   P       P   P
Building materials, manufacture                                 P   P
Business machinery and equipment                                P   P
manufacture
Cabinet making, wood working shop                       P       P   P
Candy and confectionery activity,                    P  P   P   P
production for on-premises retail sales
Candy and confectionery products,                               P   P
manufacture and wholesale
Canned and preserved food processing                            P   P
Cement, concrete, and gypsum production,                            P
products manufacture
Cemetery                                 C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C
Chemical products processing                                        P
Church, place of worship, related        P  P  P  P  P  P   P           P   P
activities
Clinic, medical and dental                           P  P   P           P
Clubs and fraternal organizations        C           C  P   P
Coal sale and storage, unbagged                                     P
Coke manufacturing                                                  P
Cold storage, freezer locker                            P       P   P
Communications equipment, manufacture                           P   P
Contractors office, with outdoor storage                P       P   P
Contractors office, excluding outdoor                P  P   P   P
storage
Craft beverage/distilled spirit                                 P   P
production (large scale)
Day care center, nursery                 C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C
Delicatessen operation, including                    P  P   P
catering
Dental office                                        P  P   P           P
Drug store                                           P  P   P           P
Drugs, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics,                           P   P
manufacture
Dry cleaning and laundry operations,                 P  P   P
self-service or retail
Dry cleaning and laundry operation,                     P       P   P
industrial and wholesale
Dwelling, single-family, excluding       P  P  P  P         P               P
mobile home
Dwelling, duplex                            C  P  P         P
Dwelling, small scale multi-family          C  P  P         P
Dwelling, large scale multi-family             C  C         C *
Dwelling, mid-scale multi-family               P  P         P
Dwelling, townhouse                         C  P  P         P
Dwelling, zero lot line                        P  P         P
Eating/drinking establishment:
restaurant, no drive-through (with or                P  P   P
without beer, wine or alcohol)
Eating/drinking establishment:                          P
restaurant, with drive-through
Eating/drinking establishment:
restaurant, for large scale health                                      P
institutions
Eating/drinking establishment: tavern                P  P   P
Eating/drinking establishment: craft
beverage/distilled spirit production                 P  P   P   P   P
(small scale)
Electrical equipment, accessories and                           P   P
components, manufacture
Electrical equipment, accessories and                P  P   P   P
components, sales or service
Electronic data processing                           P  P   P   P   P   P
Emergency services                       C  C  C  C  P  P   P   P   P   C   C
Exhibition building                                     P   P   P
Extermination service                                   P   P   P   P
Farm equipment, manufacture                                     P   P
Farm equipment, sales and service                       P   P   P
Fertilizer, feed and farm supplies                              P   P
manufacture
Fertilizer, feed and farm supplies,                     P   P   P
retail sales
Flammable or hazardous chemicals, bulk                  C       C   C
storage above ground
Flammable or hazardous chemicals, bulk                  C       C   C
storage below ground
Florist, including greenhouse                        P  P   P   P
Freight terminal, rail or truck                                 P   P
Funeral home, mortuary                               P  P   P           P
Furniture and home furnishings                          P       P   P
manufacture and repair
Furniture and home furnishings retail                P  P   P
sales and repair
Game room, amusement center                          C  C   P
Glassware, ceramics manufacture                                 P   P
Golf course, regulation, par-three,                     P
miniature
Group care home                          C  C  C  C         C           C
Hardware and garden supplies,                                   P   P
manufacture
Hardware and garden supplies, retail                 P  P   P   P
sales and service
Health clubs                                         P  P   P
Home occupation                          P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P       P   P
Hospital, sanatarium                                                    P
Hospitality house                                                       P
Household appliances and furnishings,                           P   P
manufacture
Hotel, motel                                            P   P           P
Ice manufacturing plant                                 P       P   P
Indoor gun range                                        C       C   C
Industrial equipment, sales and service                 P   P   P   P
Industrial equipment, manufacture                               P   P
Industrial operation, not otherwise                             C   C
listed herein
Janitorial services                                     P   P   P
Laboratory, research and development,                           P   P
commercial and industrial
Laboratory, medical and dental                          P   P   P       P
Landfill operation                                                  P
Leather products manufacture, tanning                           *   P
and finishing
Library                                  P  P  P  P  P  P   P           P
Locksmith, gunsmith                                  P  P   P
Lounge, tavern                                       P  P   P
Lumber yard                                                     P   P
Medical office                                       P  P   P           P
Medicinal cannabis cultivator                                   P   P
Medicinal cannabis dispensary                           P       P
Medicinal cannabis processor                                    P   P
Medicinal cannabis producer                                     P   P
Medicinal cannabis safety compliance                    P   P   P   P   P
facility
Metal manufacture, steel                                            P
Metal products manufacture                                      P   P
Meat products processing                                            P
Mobile home, for temporary               P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P   P   P
nonresidential use
Mobile home park, excluding sales        C  C  C  C
Mobile home sales, excluding residential                P
occupancy
Modular home                             P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P   P   P   P
Monument sales and works                                P       P   P
Motorcycle sales and service                            P   P   P
Musical instruments, toys, sports goods,                        P   P
manufacture
Natural resources extraction             C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C
News stand sales                                     P  P   P   P   P   P
Nursing home                                   C  C  C      C           P
Office: business, professional, not                  P  P   P
otherwise listed
Office equipment and supplies                                   P   P
manufacture
Optician service                                     P  P   P           P
Outdoor advertising structure                           P       P   P
Paint manufacture                                               *   P
Pawn shop                                            P  P   P
Personal service operations not                      P  P   P
otherwise listed
Pet seals and grooming, excluding                    P  P   P
outdoor storage
Photographic processing                              P  P   P   P   P
Planned unit development                 P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P   P   P
Post office                                          P  P   P   P
Printing, publishing and reproducing                 P  P   P   P   P
operation
Professional service, not otherwise                  P  P   P
listed
Public utility service shop, storage                    P       P   P
yard
Public utility station, substation,
telephone exchange (excluding outdoor    C  C  C  C  C  P   C   P   P   C
storage and maintenance)
Recreation facilities, for profit, not               C  C   P
otherwise listed
Recreation facilities, non-profit, not   C  C  C  C  C  P   P
otherwise listed
Rental of vehicles, machines and                        P   P   P
equipment
Retail sales and service, not otherwise              P  P   P   P
listed
Rooming house                                  P  P         P           P
Sawmill, planing operation                                      *   P
School: business, commercial, medical                   P   P           P
School, college                                         P   P
School, primary, secondary               P  P  P  P  P  P   P           P
School, trade and vocational                            P   P   P   P
Sewage treatment plant                                              P
Sheet metal fabrication                                         P   P
Shoe repair shop                                     P  P   P
Shopping center, office center                       P  P   P   P
Sign manufacture, painting                              P       P   P
Soap and candle manufacture                                     *   P
Storage, open, in connection with a
permitted use (excluding junk, salvage,                 P       P   P
scrap, unbagged coal)
Storage and processing of junk, salvage,                            P
scrap, unbagged coal
Studio for art, dance, music, design,                P  P   P
photography
Tailor, dressmaking and millinery                    P  P   P
Taxicab and other transit operations                    P   P   P
Temporary construction building (§      P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P   P   P   P
157.043(A))
Temporary uses, not otherwise listed     C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C
Textiles processing, manufacture                                P   P
Theater, indoor                                      P  P   P
Theater, outdoor                                        P
Tire recapping operation                                        *   P
Travel trailer campground, no sales                     P
Travel trailer, sales and service; no                   P   P   P
residential use
Truck terminal                                          P       P
Upholstery, furniture refinishing                    P  P   P   P
Warehousing, wholesale, and distribution                P       P   P
operation, not otherwise listed
Warehousing, mini-storage                            C  P       P   P
Water treatment plant                                           P   P
* See §
157.051 mixed use development (dwelling units above ground-floor commercial
space)
 
(Prior Code, § 157.201) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986; Ord. 5-1998, passed
1-15-1998; Ord. 6-1999, passed 1-21-1999; Ord. 128-1999, passed 11-4-1999; Ord.
144-1999, passed 12-16-1999; Ord. 21-2001, passed 2-15-2001; Ord. 22-2001,
passed 2-15-2001; Ord. 155-2003, passed 12-18-2003; Ord. 123-2006, passed 9-7-
2006; Ord. 18-2008, passed 2-21-2008; Ord. 77-2016, passed 6-23-2016; Ord. 100-
2017, passed 10-12-2017; Ord. 115, 2021, passed 8-26-2021; Ord. 21, 2024,
passed 2-8-2024; Ord. 113, 2024, passed 6-28-2024)
§ 157.208 TABLE OF DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table indicates the minimum dimensional requirements for land
use and development within the city zoning jurisdiction by each zoning
district. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may impose other minimum standards for
conditional use permits, as provided for under §§
157.180 through
157.183.
             Lot Width  Front Yard  Side Yard  Rear Yard  Lot       Max. Height
 Lot Area(a) (ft.)      (ft.)       (ft.)      (ft.)      Coverage  (ft.)
                                                          (%)
               Lot Area Lot Width Front Side Yard  Rear Yard  Lot       Max.
               (a)      (ft.)     Yard  (ft.)      (ft.)      Coverage  Height
                                  (ft.)                       (%)       (ft.)
R-12                                                               
   Single-  12,000   70        30    10         20         30        35
family         sq. ft.
   Other use12,000   75        30    12         20         25        35
R-6                                                                
   Single-  6,000    50        25    6          10         35        35
family
   Duplex   3,000(b) 50        25    6          10         35        35
   Multi-   3,000(b) 50        25    6          10         50        35
family
   Townhouse3,000(b) 24        25    0          10         50        35
   Other use6,000    50        25    6          10         40        35
R-5                                                                
   Single-  5,000    40        25    6          10         35        35
family
   Duplex   2,500(b) 40        25    6          10         35        35
   Multi-   2,500(b) 40        25    6          10         50        35
family
   Townhouse2,500    24        20    0          10         50        35
   Zero lot 2,500    35        20    0—10     10         50        35
line
   Other use5,000    40        25    6          10         40        35
R-4                                                                
   Single-  4,000    35        20    5          10         40        35
family
   Duplex   2,000(b) 35        20    5          10         40        35
   Multi-   1,000(b) 35        20    5(d)       10(d)      50        65
family
   Townhouse2,000    20        15    0          10         60        35
   Zero lot 2,000    30        15    0—10     10         60        35
line
   Other use4,000    35        20    5          10         50        65
B-1                                                                
   All uses 3,000    25        15    (c)        10         N/R       35
B-2                                                                
   All uses 3,000    25        15    (c)        (e)        N/R       45
B-3                                                                
   Residenti*l       *         *     *          *          *         *
   Other useN/R      25        N/R   (c)        (e)        N/R       65
I-1                                                                
   All uses N/R      30        20    10         15         N/R       45
I-2                                                                
   All uses N/R      50        25    10         15         N/R       65
P-H                                                                
   All uses 4,000    50        15    6          10         60        65
PUD                                                                
   All uses 0.5 acre N/A       N/A   N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A
R-E                                                                
   All uses 20,000   100       30    15         25         25        45
* Same as R-4 Residential Zoning District
(a)   Where septic tanks are used, Health Department may require larger area
(b)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit
(c)   Ten-foot minimum when abutting residential zoning districts
(d)   Two additional feet per yard for each floor above the second
(e)   Ten-foot minimum when abutting residential zoning districts
 
(Prior Code, § 157.202) (Ord. 18-90, passed 3-20-1990; Ord. 6-1999, passed 1-
21-1999)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.220 ENFORCEMENT BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; APPEAL TO BOARD OF ZONING
ADJUSTMENT.
   The City Zoning Administrator or authorized agent is hereby authorized to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Appeal from the decision of the Zoning
Administrator may be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. In administering
the provision of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall:
   (A)   Make and maintain records of all applications for permits and requests
listed herein, and records of all permits issued or denied, with notations of
all special conditions or modifications involved;
   (B)   File and safely keep copies of all plans submitted; and the same shall
form a part of the records of his or her office and shall be available for
inspection at reasonable times by any interested person;
   (C)   Transmit to the appropriate Board or Commission all applications and
plans for which their review and approval is required; and
   (D)   Conduct inspections of premises and, upon finding that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, notify in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it.
(Prior Code, § 157.210) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.221 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES.
   (A)   No building or other construction permit shall be issued for any
action unless in conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy required by the Kentucky Building Code or
this chapter shall be issued for any action not in conformity with this
chapter.
   (C)   No building, grading or other construction/development permit shall be
issued until such time as the site development plan required by this chapter
has been reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator. Upon approval of
such permit, any person performing the work covered by the permit shall post
such permit on the premises until a certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 157.211) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.222 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person(s)
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order the
discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings, or structures; the removal
of illegal buildings or structures; the removal of illegal additions,
alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with its provisions.
   (B)   Any person may file a written complaint whenever a violation of this
chapter occurs or is alleged to have occurred. Such a complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator, who
shall properly record the complaint, immediately investigate it, and take
action as provided by this chapter. The Board of Zoning Adjustment is
authorized to hear appeals and conduct administrative reviews of the Zoning
Administrator’s actions. See §§
157.243 and
157.244.
(Prior Code, § 157.212) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.223 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City Commission shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for permits, certificates, appeals,
applications for amendment, approval of site development plans, conditional
uses, and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall
be posted in the Office of Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Prior Code, § 157.213) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.224 FORMS AND PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Adjustment, and other agencies
having jurisdiction over various provisions of this chapter shall prepare forms
and procedures as necessary for the expeditious administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 157.214)
§ 157.225 FEES FOR APPLICATION FOR ACTION BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION OR
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts a fee schedule for applications
processed by the Department of Planning and Community Development and acted
upon by the Planning Commission, the Board of Zoning Adjustment and the Board
of Commissioners. The fee schedule is attached to Ordinance 150-2002, passed
December 19, 2002 is adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 157.215) (Ord. 150-2002, passed 12-19-2002)
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
§ 157.240 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment as constituted at the time of the adoption of
this chapter shall continue in office with all powers granted herein. Future
appointments shall be made as specified by the KRS Chapter 100.
(Prior Code, § 157.225) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.241 POWERS, DUTIES AND RULES.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Zoning Adjustment (hereafter referred to as
the “Board”) shall have all of the powers and duties provided by Kentucky
Revised Statutes and no others, except as specifically set forth in this or any
other ordinance of the city. The Board may establish rules of procedures,
consistent with law, which may be necessary or convenient for carrying out its
functions.
   (B)   Proceedings.
      (1)   The Board shall conduct regular monthly meetings. Special meetings
may be called as necessary. Procedures for regular and special meetings shall
be consistent with state and local law.
      (2)   A simple majority of the total authorized membership of the Board
shall constitute a quorum. Any member of the Board who has any direct or
indirect financial interest in the outcome of any question before the Board
shall disqualify himself or herself from deliberation and voting on the
question.
      (3)   The Board shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business and
shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings, including regulations,
transactions, findings and determinations, and the number of votes for and
against each question, and if any member is absent or abstains from voting,
indicating the fact, all of which shall be filed in records of the Board
maintained by the Zoning Administrator and shall be available to the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 157.226) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.242 LIABILITY OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board acting within the powers granted by this chapter and
KRS Chapter 100 are relieved from personal liability arising from the legal
performance of their duties. Suits brought against members of the Board in
their capacity as Board members shall be defended by a legal representative
furnished by the city until the final determination of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 157.227) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.243 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals shall be to the Board and may be taken by any person or entity
claiming to be injuriously affected or aggrieved by an official action or
decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days
after the appellant or his or her agent receives notice of the action appealed
from, by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board, a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and giving notice of such appeal to any
and all parties of record. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to
the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken and shall be treated as and be the respondent in such further
proceedings. At any hearing by the Board any interested person may appear and
enter his or her appearance, and all shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and give
public notice in accordance with state and local law, as well as written notice
to the appellant and the administrative official at least one week prior to the
hearing, and shall decide it within 60 days after the hearing. The affected
party may appear at the hearing in person or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 157.228) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.244 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide cases where
it is alleged by an applicant that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, grant or refusal made by an administrative official in the
enforcement of this chapter. Such appeal shall be taken within 60 days of such
order, requirement, decision, grant, or refusal.
(Prior Code, § 157.229) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.245 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   The Board shall hear and decide only such conditional use permit
applications as specifically authorized by this chapter; to decide such
questions as are involved in determining whether conditional uses should be
granted; and to grant conditional uses with such conditions and safeguards as
are appropriate under this chapter; or to deny conditional uses when they fail
to comply with the provisions and requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 157.230)
§ 157.246 VARIANCES.
   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide applications for
dimensional variances where, by reason of the exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or unusual shape of a site on the effective date of the zoning
regulations or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions, or some other
extraordinary situation or condition of that site, the literal enforcement of
the dimensional requirements (height or width of building or size of yards, but
not population density) of the zoning regulation would deprive the applicant of
reasonable capacity to make use of the land in a manner equivalent to the use
permitted other landowners in the same zone. The Board may impose any
reasonable conditions or restrictions on any variance it decides to grant.
   (A)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
Board unless and until a public hearing is held. Each application for a
variance shall be upon forms provided by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a notice of public hearing to be posted on the property for which the
variance is sought, duly advertised in a local newspaper, and mailed to all
property owners within 200 feet of the applicant’s property.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall find each and all of the
following before a variance is granted.
      (1)   There are specific conditions which are unique to the applicant’s
land and do not exist on other land in the same zoning district.
      (2)   Strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive
the applicant of reasonable use of the land in the manner equivalent to the
uses permitted other landowners in the same zoning district.
      (3)   The unique conditions and circumstances are not the result of
actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of this chapter.
      (4)   The variance will preserve, not harm the public safety and welfare,
and will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood.
   (D)   In granting any variances, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter. The Board shall have power to revoke variances for noncompliance with
the conditions thereof. Furthermore, the Board shall have a right of action to
compel offending structures or uses removed at the cost of the violator.
   (E)   When granted, a variance shall allow the least possible change in this
chapter requirements.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall not grant any variance for any
use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this chapter. A
change in the use requirements is a rezoning or text amendment, and those
legislative matter. Likewise, no nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings, and no permitted or conforming use of lands,
structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
(Prior Code, § 157.231) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.247 NONCONFORMITY PERMITS.
   The Board shall have the authority to authorize nonconformity permits under
the provisions of §§
157.065 through
157.072.
(Prior Code, § 157.232) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.248 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or entity claiming to be injured or aggrieved by any final action
of the Board may appeal from the action to the circuit court. Such appeal shall
be taken within 30 days after the final action of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 157.233) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.249 RECORDING OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS, VARIANCES.
   All conditional use permits and variances approved by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall be recorded in the office of the Boyd County Clerk at the
expense of the applicant, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
Temporary conditional use permits, as allowed under §
157.183, are exempt from this provision.
(Prior Code, § 157.234) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
AMENDMENT PROCEDURE
§ 157.260 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS; PUBLIC HEARING.
   The City Commission may, on its own motion, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, or upon petition by an interested person, amend,
supplement, change, modify or repeal the regulations or district boundaries
established by this chapter. in no case shall final action by the City
Commission be taken on amending, changing, supplementing, modifying or
repealing the regulations or district boundaries hereby established until a
public hearing has been held by the Planning Commission at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Every proposed
amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal of this chapter shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for its recommendation and report.
(Prior Code, § 157.245) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.261 PETITION FOR AMENDMENT; REQUIREMENTS.
   The petition of any interested person to amend the district boundaries or
regulations established by this chapter shall be made on forms provided by the
Zoning Administrator and shall include the following information:
   (A)   A description and/or statement of the present and proposed regulations
or district boundaries;
   (B)   The names and addresses of the party or parties requesting (or parties
to) the amendment. (Property owners in the case of a zoning map amendment);
   (C)   In cases involving the amendment of a zoning district boundary, a
currently accurate survey or tax map showing all parcels of land included in
the petition, and a legal description of the property;
   (D)   The names and addresses of persons owning land within 200 feet of the
property for which a map amendment is sought; and
   (E)   The person or persons submitting a petition shall pay all expenses
incurred by the city in the proper advertisement of the public hearing and
administrative review of the application. Such fee shall be set by the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 157.246) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.262 ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Every proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal of this
chapter shall be referred to the Planning Commission for its recommendation and
report.
   (A)   A petition to amend the district boundaries or regulations established
by this chapter shall be considered by the Planning Commission at its next
available agenda through a duly advertised and conducted public hearing.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall render its decision on any properly
filed petition within 60 calendar days after the public hearing of such
petition and shall transmit its recommendation and report, including the
reasons for its determinations, to the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 157.247) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.263 ACTION BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall examine all such applications, reports and
recommendations transmitted to it and shall take such further action as it
deems necessary and desirable. The City Commission shall approve or deny the
proposed amendment to the official zoning map or regulations subsequent to
consideration of the Planning Commission recommendations regarding the proposed
official zoning map or regulations amendment.
(Prior Code, § 157.248) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.264 REASONS FOR AMENDMENT; AGREEMENT WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   This chapter, including the official zoning map, is based upon, and is
intended to implement, the comprehensive plan. Before any zoning map amendment
is granted, the Planning and/or City Commission must find that the map
amendment is in agreement with the Comprehensive Plan or, in the absence of
such a finding, that one or more of the following apply (such findings shall be
recorded in the minutes and records of the Planning Commission and/or City
Commission.).
      (1)   That the original zoning classification given to the property was
inappropriate or improper.
      (2)   That there have been major changes of an economic, physical or
social nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the
comprehensive plan and which have substantially altered the basic character of
the area.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) of this section, the Planning Commission
and City Commission shall review proposed zoning ordinance and map amendments
with respect to sound land use planning principals and may approve or reject an
amendment on such grounds.
(Prior Code, § 157.249) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.265 WITHDRAWAL OF PETITION.
   Any petition submitted in accordance with provisions of §
157.260 for the purpose of amending the regulations or district boundaries
established by this chapter may be withdrawn at anytime prior to City
Commission final action.
(Prior Code, § 157.250) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.266 RECONSIDERATION OF PETITION.
   Whenever a petition requesting a zoning map or ordinance amendment has been
denied, such petition, or other petition for the same area, (or similar
proposal), shall not be considered again sooner than 12 months after the date
of denial, unless the City Commission, after considering the recommendation of
the Planning Commission, shall find that there have been substantial changes in
conditions or circumstances bearing on the petition.
(Prior Code, § 157.251) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
§ 157.267 EFFECT OF AMENDMENT PETITION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   Whenever a petition requesting an amendment to the zoning boundaries or
regulations is filed with the Zoning Administrator, no building permits or
certificates of occupancy shall be issued for property within the affected area
until the petition is acted upon by City Commission. Building permits and
certificates of occupancy issued prior to the filing of a zoning boundary or
regulations amendment petition shall not be adversely affected under this
provision. The Zoning Administrator shall issue building permits and
certificates of occupancy for property within such an affected area when it is
clear that the structure or use is permitted under the provisions of both the
existing and petitioned zoning district or regulations. Projects under
development may be completed, and certificates of occupancy issued, when a
valid building permit was issued prior to filing of a zoning boundary or
regulation amendment petition.
(Prior Code, § 157.252) (Ord. 101-1986, passed 10-7-1986)
ABANDONED OR BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTY
§ 157.280 CLASSIFIED AS REAL PROPERTY.
   Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification of real
property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used in this subchapter,
ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY means: any structure or vacant unimproved lot or
parcel of ground in the city which has been vacant, neglected or unimproved for
a period of at least one year or having received three or more citations for
violations of the Property Maintenance Code and which:
   (A)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested, or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, it is unfit for its intended use;
   (B)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for the
accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents or other
vermin; or
   (C)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years.
(Prior Code, § 157.265) (Ord. 84-2007, passed 6-29-2007; Ord. 5-2018, passed 1-
11-2018)
§ 157.281 RATE OF TAXATION FOR ABANDONED OR BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTIES.
   The rate of taxation levied upon abandoned or blighted urban properties
shall be four times the annually adopted ad valorem tax rate.
(Prior Code, § 157.266) (Ord. 84-2007, passed 6-29-2007; Ord. 5-2018, passed 1-
11-2018)
§ 157.282 CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY AS ABANDONED OR BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTY;
RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   The city’s Code Enforcement Board shall each year determine which
properties in the city are abandoned or blighted urban properties and shall
prepare and furnish a list of abandoned or blighted properties located in the
city to the City Finance Department and to the Boyd County Property Valuation
Administrator prior to January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section a property classified by
the City of Ashland Code Enforcement Board as abandoned or blighted urban
property as of January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned or blighted urban property
for such tax year. If the owner repairs, rehabilitates or otherwise returns the
property to productive use so that the property is no longer abandoned or
blighted urban property, he or she shall notify the city, which shall, if it
finds the property no longer abandoned or blighted urban property, notify the
City Finance Department and the Boyd County Property Valuation Administrator to
strike the property from the list of abandoned or blighted urban properties as
of the succeeding January 1.
   (C)   No later than March 1 of each year, the City Code Enforcement Board
shall mail, by first class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned or blighted
urban property, as those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property
Valuation Administrator, a notice this property has been classified as
abandoned or blighted urban property. The owner of any abandoned or blighted
urban property who believes his, her or its property has been incorrectly
classified may appeal such classification to the City of Ashland Code
Enforcement Board. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be made no later
than April 1 of that year. The City of Ashland Code Enforcement Board shall
afford the owner the opportunity for a hearing. If the City of Ashland Code
Enforcement Board finds the property was incorrectly classified as abandoned or
blighted urban property, it shall cause the property to be removed from the
list of properties so classified. The City Code Enforcement Board shall develop
policies and procedures for conducting such appeals.
(Prior Code, § 157.267) (Ord. 84-2007, passed 6-29-2007; Ord. 5-2018, passed 1-
11-2018)
CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER AND SMALL CELL TOWER REGULATIONS
§ 157.295 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations are: to provide for the safest and most
efficient integration of cellular antenna towers and small cell towers for
cellular telecommunications services or personal communications services within
the community; to provide for such facilities in coordination with the
recommendations of the comprehensive plan; and to allow for such facilities
with the intention of furthering the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 157.280) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.296 GENERAL.
   Cellular antenna towers and small cell system towers for cellular
telecommunications services or personal communications services may be allowed
in any zoning district after Planning Commission or staff review in accordance
with the following procedures to ascertain agreement with the adopted
comprehensive plan and the regulations contained within the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 157.281) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.297 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations apply to every utility or company that is engaged in the
business of providing the required infrastructure to a utility that proposes to
construct a cellular antenna, small wireless facility or small cell tower for
cellular telecommunications services or personal communications services.
(Prior Code, § 157.282) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.298 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA OR RELATED EQUIPMENT. Any transmitting, receiving, or other
equipment used to support cellular telecommunications service or personal
communications service. This definition does not include towers.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity who is authorized by the provisions of these
regulations to file an application for approval under these regulations.
   APPLICATION. The completed form or forms and all accompanying documents,
exhibits, and fees required of an applicant by staff or the Planning Commission
as part of a submission for review.
   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A tower constructed for, or an existing facility
that has been adapted for, the location of transmission or related equipment to
be used in the provision of cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services.
   CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A retail telecommunications service that
uses radio signals transmitted through cell sites and mobile switching
stations.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating two or more transmission antennas or related equipment
on the same cellular antenna tower.
   NON-TOWER WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Wireless communications
facilities other than tower-based that are located on buildings, utility poles
as defined by this section, and other existing structures.
   PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c).
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City of Ashland Planning Commission.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and space above and below any real property in
the city in which the federal government, Commonwealth, or city has a
regulatory interest, or interest as a trustee for the public, as such interests
now or hereafter exist, including, but not limited to, all streets, highways,
avenues, roads, alleys, sidewalks, tunnels, bridges, or any other public place,
area, or property under the control of the federal government, Commonwealth or
city.
   SMALL CELL TOWER. A pole originally installed for the primary purpose of
supporting wireless telecommunications equipment.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. Facilities that meet each of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height including
their antennas;
         (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller than other
adjacent structures; or
         (c)   Do not extend existing structures on which they are located to a
height of more than 50 feet or by more than 10%, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding associated
antenna equipment, is no more than three cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other wireless equipment associated with the structure,
including the wireless equipment associated with the antenna and any pre-
existing associated equipment on the structure, is no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume; and
      (4)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R. part 1.1307
(b).
   STAFF. Those employees of the City of Ashland assigned to support and/or
administer the powers and duties proscribed to the Planning Commission.
   STEALTH TECHNOLOGY. Design techniques used to blend objects into the
surrounding environment and to minimize visual impact. These design techniques
may be applied to wireless communications towers, antennas and other
facilities, which blend the proposed facility into the existing structure or
visual backdrop in such a manner as to render it less visible to the casual
observer. Such methods include, but are not limited to, facilities constructed
to resemble light poles, flag poles or other streetscape amenities.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure originally constructed for the support of
electrical, telephone, cable television or other video services, street
lighting, or other similar cables and located within the right-of-way or
utility easements. A pole originally installed for the primary purpose of
supporting wireless telecommunications equipment, regardless of the timeframe
between pole installation and connection/implementation of transmission
equipment, is considered a small cell tower and is not a UTILITY POLE.
(Prior Code, § 157.283) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.299 REGULATIONS FOR CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWERS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Applications for the construction of
cellular antenna towers for cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services shall include the following:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The applicant’s articles of incorporation, if applicable;
      (3)   A geotechnical investigation report, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state, that includes boring logs and
foundation design recommendations;
      (4)   A written report, prepared by a professional engineer or land
surveyor, of findings as to the proximity of the proposed site to flood hazard
areas;
      (5)   Clear directions from the City Building located at 1700 Greenup
Avenue to the proposed site, including highway numbers and street names, if
applicable, with the telephone number of the person who prepared the
directions;
      (6)   The lease or sale agreement for the property on which the tower is
proposed to be located, except that, if the agreement has been filed in
abbreviated form with the Boyd County Clerk, an applicant may file a copy of
the agreement as recorded by the County Clerk and, if applicable, the portion
of the agreement that specifies, in the case of abandonment, a method that the
utility will follow in dismantling and removing the proposed cellular antenna
tower including a timetable for removal;
      (7)   The identity and qualifications of each person directly responsible
for the design and construction of the proposed tower;
      (8)   A (site) development plan or survey, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state, that shows the proposed location
of the tower and all easements and existing structures within 500 feet of the
proposed site on the property on which the tower will be located, and all
easements and existing structures within 200 feet of the access drive,
including the intersection with the public street system;
      (9)   A vertical profile sketch of the tower, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in Kentucky, indicating the height of the
tower and the placement of all antennas;
      (10)   The tower and foundation design plans and a description of the
standard according to which the tower was designed, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state;
      (11)   A map, drawn to scale no less than one inch equals 200 feet, that
identifies every structure and every owner of real estate within 500 feet of
the proposed tower;
      (12)   A statement that every person who, according to the records of the
property valuation administrator, owns property within 500 feet of the proposed
tower or property contiguous to the site upon which the tower is proposed to be
constructed, has been:
         (a)   Notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the
proposed construction which notice shall include a map of the location of the
proposed construction;
         (b)   Given the telephone number and address of the local Planning
Commission; and
         (c)   Informed of his or her right to participate in the Planning
Commission’s proceedings on the application.
      (13)   A list of the property owners who received the notice, together
with copies of the certified letters sent to the listed property owners;
      (14)   A statement that the chief executive officer of the appropriate
and affected local government and legislative bodies (City of Ashland and Boyd
County Fiscal Court) have been notified, in writing of the proposed
construction;
      (15)   A copy of the notice sent to the chief executive officer of the
appropriate and affected local government and the legislative body (see
division (A)(14) of this section);
      (16)   A statement that:
         (a)   A written notice, of durable material at least two feet by four
feet in size, stating that “Applicant proposes to construct a
telecommunications tower on this site” and including the addresses and
telephone numbers of the applicant and the Planning Commission, has been posted
in a visible location on the proposed site; and
         (b)   A written notice, at least two feet by four feet in size,
stating that “Applicant proposes to construct a telecommunications tower on
this site” and including the addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant
and the Planning Commission, has been posted on the public road nearest the
site.
      (17)   A statement that notice of the location of the proposed
construction has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county in which the construction is proposed;
      (18)   A brief description of the character of the general area in which
the tower is proposed to be constructed, which includes the existing land use
and zoning for the specific property involved;
      (19)   A statement that the applicant has considered the likely effects
of the installation on nearby land uses and values and has concluded that there
is no more suitable location reasonably available from which adequate service
to the area can be provided, and that there is no reasonably available
opportunity to locate its antennas and related facilities on an existing
structure (i.e., co-locate), including documentation of attempts to locate its
antennas and related facilities on an existing structure, if any, with
supporting radio frequency analysis, where applicable, and a statement
indicating that the applicant attempted to locate its antennas and related
facilities on a tower designed to host multiple wireless service providers’
facilities or on an existing structure, such as a telecommunications tower or
other suitable structure capable of supporting the applicant’s antennas and
related facilities;
      (20)   A map of the area in which the tower is proposed to be located,
that is drawn to scale, and that clearly depicts the necessary search area
within which an antenna tower should, pursuant to radio frequency requirements,
be located; and
      (21)   A grid map that shows the location of all existing cellular
antenna towers and that indicates the general position of proposed construction
sites for new cellular antenna towers within an area that includes:
         (a)   All of the planning unit’s jurisdiction; and
         (b)   A one-half mile area outside of the boundaries of the planning
unit’s jurisdiction, if that area contains either existing or proposed
construction sites for cellular antenna towers.
   (B)   Application fee. An applicant for the construction of cellular antenna
towers for cellular telecommunications services or personal communications
services shall pay an application fee in the amount of $2,500 upon submission
of an application. This fee includes review of the Planning Commission based
upon the required development plan and review and issuance of a building
permit.
   (C)   Processing of application. The procedure for siting of cellular
antenna towers shall be as follows.
      (1)   After an applicant’s submission of the application to construct a
cellular antenna tower, the Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   In a public hearing, review the application in light of its
agreement with the comprehensive plan and adopted zoning regulations;
         (b)   Make its final decision to approve or disapprove the
application; and
         (c)   Advise the applicant in writing of its final decision within 60
days commencing from the date that the application is submitted to the Planning
Commission or within a date certain specified in a written agreement between
the Planning Commission and the applicant. If the Planning Commission fails to
issue a final decision within 60 days and if there is no written agreement
between the Planning Commission and the applicant to a specific date for the
Planning Commission to issue a decision, the application shall be deemed
approved.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission disapproves of the proposed
construction, it shall state the reasons for disapproval in its written
decision any may make suggestions which, in its opinion, better accomplish the
objectives of the comprehensive plan and the adopted zoning regulations. No
permit for construction of a cellular or personal communications services
antenna tower shall be issued until the Planning Commission approves the
application or the 60-day time period has expired, whichever occurs first.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may require the applicant to make a
reasonable attempt to co-locate additional transmitting or related equipment.
The Planning Commission may provide the location of existing cellular antenna
towers on which the Commission deems the applicant can successfully co-locate
its transmitting and related equipment. If the Planning Commission requires the
applicant to attempt co-location, the applicant shall provide the local
planning unit with a statement indicating that the application has:
         (a)   Successfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service provider’s facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications owner or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant’s facilities, and that identifies the location of the tower or
suitable structure on which the applicant will co-locate its transmission and
related facilities; or
         (b)   Unsuccessfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service provider’s facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant’s facilities and that:
            1.   Identifies the location of the towers or other structures on
which the applicant attempted to co-locate; and
            2.   Lists the reasons and document why the co-location was
unsuccessful in each instance.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may deny an application to construct a
cellular antenna based on an applicant’s unwillingness to attempt to co-locate
additional transmitting or related equipment on any new or existing towers or
other structures.
      (5)   In the event of co-location, a utility shall be considered the
primary user of the tower, if the utility is the owner of the antenna tower and
if no other agreement exists that prescribes an alternate arrangement between
the parties for use of the tower. Any other entity that co-locates transmission
or related facilities on a cellular antenna tower shall do so in a manner that
does not impose additional costs or operating restrictions on the primary user.
      (6)   Upon the approval of an application for the construction of a
cellular antenna tower by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall notify
the Public Service Commission within ten working days of the approval. The
notice to the Public Service Commission shall include a map showing the
location of the construction site. If an applicant fails to file notice of an
approved application with the Public Service Commission, the applicant shall be
prohibited from beginning construction on the cellular antenna tower until such
notice has been made.
      (7)   A party aggrieved by a final action of the Planning Commission
under the provisions of KRS 100.985 to 100.987 may bring an action for review
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 157.284) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.300 REGULATIONS FOR SMALL CELL TOWERS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application requirement. Applications for the construction or
installation of small wireless facilities and/or small cell towers shall
include the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail addresses;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of all
duly authorized representatives and consultants, if any, acting on behalf of
the applicant with respect to the filing of the application;
      (3)   The applicant shall provide a map of the propose site(s) and
photographs of the structure if the installation is a proposed co-location. The
applicant’s map shall show all land uses within 800 feet of the proposed small
cell facility or tower;
      (4)   The applicant shall provide a photo simulation showing the proposed
small cell facility and any related equipment;
      (5)   The applicant shall furnish site plan, plans, and elevations drawn
to scale that identify the proposed small cell facility and all structures on
which facilities are proposed to be located;
      (6)   For new small cell towers, a site development plan, signed and
sealed by a professional engineer registered in Kentucky, showing the proposed
location of the new small cell tower(s) and existing structures within 500 feet
of the proposed new small cell tower(s); and
      (7)   For new small cell towers, a vertical profile drawing of the
proposed new small cell tower(s), signed and sealed by a professional engineer
registered in Kentucky, indicating the height of the proposed new small cell
tower(s) and the placement of all antennas and equipment enclosures associated
with the new small cell tower(s).
   (B)   Application fee.
      (1)   The fee shall not exceed $500 for an application covering up to
five small wireless facilities, with an additional $100 for each additional
small wireless facility beyond five.
      (2)   The application fee for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a new pole (i.e., not a co-location with other non-small cell
facilities) intended to support one or more small wireless facilities shall not
exceed $1,000 per pole.
      (3)   An applicant authorized to place small wireless facilities and any
related poles in the right-of-way shall pay to the city compensation for use of
the rights-of-way an aggregate annual rate not to exceed $270 per small
wireless facility. This rate, together with the application fee(s), shall be
the total compensation that the applicant is required to pay the city for the
deployment of each small wireless facility.
   (C)   Processing of application. Staff shall review an application subject
to this subchapter considering its conformity with applicable provisions of
this subchapter.
      (1)   For an initial application, staff shall notify the applicant within
ten calendar days from the submission of the application if the application is
materially incomplete. In the written notice, staff must clearly and
specifically identify all of the missing documents or information. No further
review of the application will take place until the application is complete.
      (2)   Staff shall review and take final action on applications for non-
tower wireless communication facilities within 60 calendar days of a completed
application. Staff shall either approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application. If staff does not make a final decision within the required 60
calendar days, the application shall be deemed to be approved as submitted.
      (3)   Planning Commission shall review and take final action on
applications for new small cell towers within 90 calendar days of a completed
application. Planning Commission shall either approve, approve with conditions
or deny the application. If the Planning Commission does not make a final
decision within the required 90 calendar days, the application shall be deemed
to be approved as submitted.
      (4)   The applicant must be advised in writing of the final decision of
either staff or the Planning Commission. If the final decision is to deny the
application, the final decision document shall state the basis for a denial,
including specific code provisions on which the denial was based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the application is denied.
(Prior Code, § 157.285) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.301 SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY AND SMALL CELL TOWER LOCATION AND DESIGN
REGULATIONS.
   A new small wireless facility is subject to design review and approval by
the Planning Commission, either by staff for small wireless facilities on
existing structures or after a public hearing, by the Planning Commission Board
for new small cell towers. The design criteria required for the new small
wireless facility is determined by the type of location or zoning district in
which the facility is to be located. The design review and approval process,
including any public hearing, shall be compliant with state and federal law.
   (A)   Non-tower wireless communications facilities locations and small
wireless facilities on existing utility poles or small cell towers.
Administrative review by staff is required for non-tower wireless
communications facilities and small wireless facilities on existing utility
poles or small cell towers. A utility planning to erect said non-tower wireless
communications facilities and small wireless facilities on existing utility
poles or small cell towers shall file an application in accordance with §
157.300(A).
   (B)   New small wireless facilities and small cell location in all zoning
districts. The regulations in this division (B) apply to all new small wireless
facilities and small cell towers.
      (1)   Except when deployed in response to temporary service outages; as a
result of emergencies; or at the request of first responders, temporary, mobile
or wheeled cellular antenna towers or small cell towers shall not be permitted.
      (2)   New small cell towers shall not exceed the greater of the maximum
building height for the zoning district (or adjacent zoning district if in
right-of-way) within which they are located or 35 feet. A height that is in
excess of what is permitted within the zoning district may be approved by staff
if it integrates stealth technology that better meets the objectives of these
regulations.
      (3)   If technologically possible, new small cell towers shall be
designed and constructed to accommodate a minimum of two service providers.
      (4)   New small cell towers may be located on public or private
nonresidential land or within a public right-of-way provided it does not
interfere with other utilities, functionality of sidewalks, visibility or other
matters of public safety.
      (5)   New small cell towers shall not be illuminated, except in accord
with state or federal regulations, or unless illumination is integral to the
stealth technology, such as a design intended to look like a street light pole.
      (6)   New small cell towers shall not include advertisements and may only
display information required by a federal, state or local agency. Such display
shall not exceed one square foot in area, unless required by state or federal
regulations, or unless a larger display is integral to the stealth technology.
Such display shall not exceed the width of the pole, unless required by state
or federal regulations or a wider sign is integral to the stealth technology
such as a design which integrates a decorative banner.
      (7)   If a new small cell tower is located in an area with primarily
underground utilities, or where no adjacent overhead utility lines exist, it
shall not utilize overhead utility lines.
   (C)   New small wireless facilities and small cell towers locations in
residential zones. The regulations in this division (C) apply to small cell
systems and small cell towers to be located within, or immediately adjacent to,
residential zoning districts as defined in this chapter.
      (1)   Facilities in residential areas are strongly encouraged to be non-
tower wireless communication facilities, which are eligible for staff approval
from these regulations per division (A) of this section.
      (2)   New small cell towers and small wireless facilities shall be
camouflaged by stealth technology. Examples of appropriate stealth technology
for residential areas includes, at a minimum, towers with all cables, wires,
transmission equipment, electric meters, power equipment and the like installed
inside the small cell tower to the extent technologically feasible. Other types
of stealth technology or other methods which will reduce the visual impact may
be approved by staff.
      (3)   All poles and antennas shall be uniform grey or black in color,
unless another color is integral to the stealth technology as approved by staff
or the applicant shows that grey and black are not technologically feasible.
      (4)   The use of cooling fans is discouraged. When needed, fans with
lower noise profiles must be used.
      (5)   New small cell towers should avoid areas without overhead
utilities. If a small cell tower is located in an area with primarily
underground utilities it must adhere to stealth technology that incorporates
the telecommunications equipment into a streetscape amenity such as a
decorative lamp post, streetlight or other approved design. In areas with
overhead utilities, cylindrical antennas or antennas house within cylindrical
canisters or shrouds are required.
      (6)   In residential areas, a small cell tower shall not be located
closer than the height of the proposed tower to an existing or proposed
residential structure, or no closer than 30 feet, whichever is greater.
      (7)   Efforts should be made to locate new small cell towers in the yard
location where other overhead utilities are located, in the event that co-
location has been demonstrated to be infeasible.
      (8)   New small cell towers within residential areas should be located to
avoid obstructing the view of building facades by placing the tower at a
corner, intersection or along a lot line.
      (9)   When technologically feasible new small cell tower shall not be
located within 500 feet of an existing small cell tower. Multiple carriers are
permitted and encouraged to locate on one small cell tower, where
technologically feasible.
      (10)   Reasonable efforts shall be made to locate new small cell towers
in the order of hierarchy below, based on the following functional roadway
classification from the most to least preferred:
         (a)   Interstate;
         (b)   Arterial;
         (c)   Collector; or
         (d)   Local.
   (D)   New small wireless system and small cell tower locations in
nonresidential zones. The regulations in this division apply to towers to be
located within nonresidential zoning districts.
      (1)   In instances where a facility is proposed to be constructed in the
right-of-way within 100 feet of a residential zone or use, even if the
antenna’s physical location is within a nonresidential zone, regulations in
division (C) of this section, shall be followed.
      (2)   Antennas in commercial, institutional or park areas are encouraged
to be installed as non-tower wireless communication facilities, which are
eligible for staff approval per division (A) of this section.
      (3)   Reasonable effort shall be given to locate new equipment based upon
the following hierarchy of zones and land uses from the most to least
preferred:
         (a)   Co-locate on an existing structure whenever possible;
         (b)   Institutional;
         (c)   Industrial;
         (d)   Commercial; or
         (e)   Public parks.
      (4)   Equipment enclosures, including electric meters, should be nearly
the same width as the pole or as small as possible.
      (5)   Shrouds, risers and conduits shall be used to reduce the appearance
of external cabling.
      (6)   All poles, antennas, brackets, cabling, risers, shrouds and
conduits shall be uniform grey or black in color, or other color as approved by
staff.
      (7)   All poles, antennas, brackets, cabling, risers, shrouds and
conduits shall be uniform grey or black in color, or other color as approved by
staff.
      (8)   There shall be no more than a four-inch off-set between the pole
and pole-mounted equipment enclosures.
   (E)   Evaluation criteria. Evaluation of the proposal shall be based upon
the following criteria and shall be subject to administrative approval by staff
or approval by the Planning Commission after a public hearing, as applicable:
      (1)   The extent to which the proposal is consistent with the purposes of
these regulations;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposal minimizes the impact on adjacent
land uses, especially in terms of visual impact;
      (3)   The extent to which the proposed facility is camouflaged (i.e., use
of stealth technology); and
      (4)   The extent to which the proposed facility conforms to the character
of the surrounding area (i.e., buildings, street lighting, signs).
   (F)   Amendments to approved plan.
      (1)   Any amendments to plans for small wireless facilities and small
cell towers, except for the minor adjustments outlined below, shall be made in
accordance with the procedure required in §
157.300(A), subject to the same limitations and requirements as those under
which such plans were originally approved.
      (2)   The following activities shall be considered minor adjustments from
the original approval of an application for towers located in the right-of-way.
Changes are measured cumulatively from the original approval of the small cell
tower or small wireless facility:
         (a)   Tower height increases by less than 10%; and
         (b)   Change in the tower width of less than 10%.
(Prior Code, § 157.286) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.302 CONFIDENTIALITY OF APPLICATIONS.
   All information contained in any application for a cellular antenna tower or
small cell tower and/or facility, except for any map or other information that
specifically identifies the proposed location being reviewed, shall be deemed
confidential and proprietary within the meaning of KRS 61.878. The Planning
Commission or staff shall deny any public request for the inspection of this
information, whether submitted under Kentucky’s Open Records Act or otherwise,
except when ordered to release the information by a court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of official
misconduct in the second degree as provided under KRS 522.030. The
confidentiality of any applications can be waived by the written authorization
of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 157.287) (Ord. 71, 2021, passed 6-10-2021)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
CHAPTER 158: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
158.01   Purpose
   
158.02   Administrative review; waiver of requirements
   
158.03   General requirements
   
158.04   Special sign regulations
   
158.05   Permitted signs
   
158.06   Illumination
   
158.07   Prohibited signs
   
158.08   Nonconforming signs
   
158.09   Insurance
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 PURPOSE.
   Except for signs requiring a conditional use permit, the purpose of these
regulations is to permit such signs that will not, by their reason of size,
location, construction or manner of display endanger the public safety of
individuals; confuse, mislead or obstruct the vision necessary for traffic
safety; or otherwise endanger public health, safety and morals; and to engender
a harmonious and aesthetically pleasing environment.
(Prior Code, § 157.110) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 158.02 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The city’s Board of Commissioners may hear and decide cases where it is
alleged by an application for a sign permit that there is error in any
determination made by the Code Enforcement Officer in the enforcement of this
chapter; and the Board of Commissioners may waive or modify the technical
requirements of this chapter as it determines to be in the best public
interest.
(Prior Code, § 157.111) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 158.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No sign of any type nor any part thereof shall be erected, painted,
posted, placed or hung except in compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   Each application for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall contain or have attached
thereto the following information:
      (1)   A drawing approximately to scale showing the design of the sign,
including dimensions, method of attachment or support, source of illumination
and showing the relationship to any building or structure to which it is or is
proposed to be installed or affixed; and
      (2)   A plot plan approximately to scale indicating the location of the
sign relative to property lines, easements, streets, sidewalks, structures,
utilities and other signs.
   (C)   Sign plans shall be submitted to and approved by the Code Enforcement
Officer prior to a permit being issued. A record of such applications, plans
and the action taken thereon shall be kept in the office of the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Each applicant before being granted a sign permit shall pay to the
city a fee for each sign permit. The fee shall be set by the City Commission.
   (E)   In addition to the detailed regulations set forth in other provisions
of these regulations, all signs displayed within the city (including those
listed in §
158.04) shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Obstruction to exits. No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct
any fire escape, required exit, window or door opening intended as a means of
egress.
      (2)   Obstruction to ventilation or light. No sign shall be erected which
interferes with any opening required for ventilation and/or light to a
structure.
      (3)   Clearance from surface and underground utilities. Signs and their
supporting structures shall maintain clearance and non-interference with all
surface and underground utilities. Furthermore, sign placement shall not
interfere with natural or artificial drainage, or surface or underground water.
      (4)   Drainage. The roofs of canopies, awnings, or similar sign
structures exceeding 50 square feet shall be drained to prevent dripping or
flowage onto sidewalks or streets; and shall be connected to an approved
disposal source by adequate conductors.
      (5)   Obstruction to corner visibility. No sign or sign structure shall
impair the visibility of intersecting streets and drives as defined by §
158.07.
      (6)   Setbacks. Unless otherwise specifically regulated herein, signs
shall be permitted in required yards, and not on or over the public rights-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 157.112) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.04 SPECIAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following types of signs are regulated as per the provisions of this
section, in addition to the requirements of these provisions, such signs shall
also comply with §
158.03(E),
158.06,
158.07 and
158.08. Because these signs may be permitted in several or all of the city
zoning districts, because they are temporary in nature, and/or because they
provide public service information, these signs need not comply with §
158.05:
   (A)   Property identification. Two square feet per occupant, eight square
feet maximum per zoning lot, unlighted, displaying only the name/address of the
occupant;
   (B)   Flags and governmental insignia. Except in connection with commercial
promotions;
   (C)   Legal notices, informational and directional signs erected by a public
agency. (Limited to one square foot per five square feet of lot frontage in all
zones; maximum of 64 square feet);
   (D)   Integral structural features. When cut or set into the building
surface, the name, date of erection and/or address of a structure;
   (E)   Private traffic signs. Directing traffic/parking on private property,
limited to three signs no larger than four square feet in area per zoning lot;
   (F)   Sign repair and maintenance. For conforming signs, includes the
replacement of copy;
   (G)   Auto service stations. One price of gasoline sign per public street
frontage not exceeding eight square feet in are, affixed to an existing sign
structure, a canopy support or flat-mounted on the building; up to six square
feet of signage per service/pump island indicating services offered, and other
relevant information;
   (H)   Real estate sale/rental, political campaign signs. No larger than
eight square feet in residential zones, and one square foot per each five
linear front feet in nonresidential zones (with a maximum of 64 square feet);
   (I)   Construction signs. One per zoning lot during construction/
reconstruction period, unilluminated, removed within two weeks of job
completion; no larger than eight square feet in residential zones; and one
square foot per each five linear front feet in nonresidential zones (with a
maximum of 64 square feet);
   (J)   Public and semi-public. One sign per street frontage for public, civic
or religious institutions or events, not to exceed 32 square feet in area; up
to three off premises directional signs, unilluminated, per institution or
event, with a maximum sign area of six square feet;
   (K)   Historical plaques. One per zoning lot, when erected by recognized
historical agencies;
   (L)   Temporary interior signs. Signs painted or displayed on interior
windows and interior spaces;
   (M)   Open house signs. Up to three directional signs may be displayed off
premises on the days of any advertised open house for sale, each sign shall not
exceed four square feet in area.
   (N)   Political campaign signs. Displayed in accordance with §§
158.03 and
158.07; and
   (O)   Balloon signs. Such signs shall be permitted upon completion of a sign
permit application. Such signs shall not be greater than 600 cubic feet in
size. Said sign permit shall not be granted for more than 60 days per calendar
year. Balloon signs may be flown off premises at community events as long as
the applicant has not exceeded 60 days. Balloon signs must be removed after the
event has concluded.
(Prior Code, § 157.113) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012; Ord. 77-2018, passed
5-10-2018) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.05 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   Only signs as described herein and as may be permitted otherwise in these
regulations will be allowed. No sign described by this section shall be erected
unless a permit for the same has been issued by the Code Enforcement Officer.
All signs erected under the requirements of this section may be illuminated in
accordance with §
158.06 unless provided otherwise herein. DISTRICTS refer to zoning districts as
depicted on the official zoning map of the city.
   (A)   Residential Districts.
      (1)   Permanent, identification signs for subdivision, mobile home parks
and travel trailer campgrounds not exceeding 15 square feet in area are
permitted. One sign may be erected at each major entrance to the subdivision,
mobile home park or travel campground; and shall be no closer than ten feet in
height above ground level, and shall be parallel to the street frontage.
      (2)   One permanent, identification sign for multi-family residential
developments may be erected at each major entrance to the property. Such signs
shall not exceed 15 square feet in area and may be flat-mounted against the
wall of an apartment building or freestanding, if freestanding, such signs
shall be set back ten feet from property line and shall not exceed six feet in
height above ground level, and be parallel to the street frontage.
      (3)   Signs for home occupations shall be limited to one sign not
exceeding four square feet in area. Such signs shall be unlighted and mounted
flat against the wall of the principal building.
      (4)   One permanent, freestanding sign for nonresidential uses permitted
as a matter of right, conditionally, or as nonconformities (other than home
occupations), may be erected on the premises, provided such signs do not exceed
20 square feet in area. No freestanding sign shall be located closer than ten
feet to any property line nor exceed six feet in height above ground level.
Such signs shall be parallel to the street frontage.
      (5)   Nonresidential uses permitted as-of-right, conditionally, or as
nonconformities (other than home occupations) may have a flat-mounted wall
sign. No single sign shall exceed 20 square feet in area.
   (B)   Neighborhood Business, Public Hospital Districts. With the B-
1 Neighborhood Business and P-H Public Hospital Districts as shown on the
zoning map, only the following types of signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   One freestanding sign shall be permitted for each zoning lot. The
area of the sign shall not exceed one square foot for each one foot of lot
width, provided no such sign shall exceed 50 square feet. Any such sign shall
not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   Flat-mounted wall signs are permitted for each separate business
establishment, provided the total allowable sign are for all such signs shall
not exceed one square foot for each linear foot of building wall facing a
public street or common drive (such as in a unified shopping center).
      (3)   One identification sign per business may be suspended from or
attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee provided such sign does not
exceed six square feet in area, and shall maintain a clear distance of at least
ten feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign, not over the public
right-of-way.
   (C)   General Business. Within the B-2 General Business District as shown on
the zoning map, only the following types of signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   One permanent, freestanding sign is permitted for each zoning lot.
The area of the sign shall not exceed two square feet for each one linear foot
of street frontage, or a total of 100 square feet in area, whichever is less.
Any such freestanding sign shall not exceed 30 feet in height.
      (2)   Unified shopping centers and other zoning lots with more than 300
feet of street frontage may have one additional freestanding sign for each
additional 300 feet of street frontage or portion thereof. The ratio stated in
division (C)(1) of this section shall apply to such additional signage, as if
the additional frontage was a separate lot.
      (3)   Permanent flat-mounted signs are permitted for each separate
business establishment, provided the total allowable sign areas for all such
signs shall not exceed two square feet for each linear foot of building wall
facing a public street or common drive (such as a unified shopping center).
      (4)   One sign projecting from a building facade per street frontage is
permitted for each business establishment, in the absence of flat-mounted wall
signs. Such sign shall not project more than ten feet from the building facade,
and shall not exceed 32 square feet in area. Projecting signs, shall not extend
above the top of the building parapet or roof ridge; shall maintain a clear
distance of at least ten feet above the sidewalk; and shall be totally on/over
private property.
      (5)   One identification sign per business establishment may be suspended
from or attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee, provided such sign
does not exceed six square feet in area and maintains a clear distance of at
least ten feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign, not over the
public right-of-way.
      (6)   (a)   One outdoor advertising sign structure is permitted on each
zoning lot. The lot must abut a federal or state highway.
         (b)   To allow one LED billboard, four regular billboard structures
(if any) within 600 feet radius of the proposed LED billboard must be taken
down.
         (c)   Such structure shall meet all building setback and yard
requirements of the zoning district, or at least ten feet back from all
property lines; and in addition, shall be no closer than 75 feet to a
residential zone. Five hundred feet shall separate one structure from another
(on the same side of a street or around a corner) on a zoning lot with more
than 300 feet of street frontage. One outdoor advertising structure is
permitted for each additional 500 feet of street frontage (or portion thereof).
Outdoor advertising signs shall not exceed 300 square feet in area per facing,
with no more than two facings per side, or 40 feet in height. All outdoor
advertising sign structures must meet state guidelines when facing state and/or
federal roadways.
   (D)   Downtown Business District. Within the B-3 Downtown Business District
as shown on the zoning map, only the following types of signs shall be
permitted.
      (1)   One permanent, freestanding sign is permitted for each zoning lot.
The area of the sign shall not exceed one square foot for each linear foot of
street frontage, or a total of 60 square feet, whichever is less. Any such
freestanding sign shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
      (2)   Permanent flat-mounted wall signs are permitted for each separate
business establishment provided the total allowable sign area for all such
signs shall not exceed one square foot for each linear foot of building wall
facing a public street.
      (3)   One identification sign per business establishment may be suspended
from or attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee, provided such sign
does not exceed six square feet in area and maintains a clear distance of at
least ten feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign, not over the
public right-of-way.
   (E)   Industrial Districts. Within the I-1 and I-2 Industrial Districts as
shown on the zoning map, only the following types of signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   One permanent, freestanding sign is permitted for each zoning lot.
The area of the sign shall not exceed two square feet for each linear foot of
lot width, or a total of 100 square feet, whichever is less. Any such
freestanding sign shall not exceed 30 feet in height.
      (2)   One industrial park identification sign is permitted on each park
frontage, not to exceed 200 square feet in area or 30 feet in height.
      (3)   Permanent flat-mounted wall signs are permitted for each separate
business, provided the total allowable sign area for all such signs shall not
exceed two square feet for each linear foot of building wall facing a public
street or common drive (such as in a unified industrial park).
      (4)   One sign projecting from a building facade per street frontage is
permitted for each business establishment—in the absence of flat-mounted wall
signs. Such sign shall not project more than ten feet from the building, and
shall not exceed 32 square feet in area. Projecting signs shall not extend
above the top of the building parapet or roof ridge; shall maintain a clear
distance of at least ten feet above the sidewalk; and shall be totally on/over
private property.
      (5)   One identification sign per business establishment may be suspended
from or attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee, provided such sign
does not exceed six square feet in area and maintains a clear distance of at
least ten feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign, not over public
right-of-way.
      (6)   (a)   One outdoor advertising sign structure is permitted on each
zoning lot. The lot must abut a federal or state highway.
         (b)   To allow one LED billboard, four regular billboard structures
(if any) within 600 feet radius of the proposed LED billboard must be taken
down.
         (c)   Such structure shall meet all building setback and yard
requirements of the zoning district, or at least ten feet back from all
property lines; and in addition, shall be no closer than 75 feet to a
residential zone. Five hundred feet shall separate one structure from another
(on the same side of a street or around a corner) on a zoning lot with more
than 300 feet of street frontage. One outdoor advertising structure is
permitted for each additional 500 feet of street frontage (or portion thereof).
Outdoor advertising signs shall not exceed 300 square feet in area per facing,
with no more than two facings per side, or 40 feet in height. All outdoor
advertising sign structures must meet state guidelines when facing state and/or
federal roadways.
(Prior Code, § 157.114) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012; Ord. 65-2018, passed
4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.06 ILLUMINATION.
   Where illuminated signs are permitted, they shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   All signs illuminated under the provisions of this section shall be
construed to meet the requirements of the national, state and local electric
codes.
   (B)   Signs which contain, include or are lighted by any flashing,
intermittent or moving lights are prohibited, except those giving public
information such as time, temperature and date. Theater marquees are likewise
exempt.
   (C)   Self-illuminated signs shall be limited to those lighted internally
with glass or plastic faces bearing the advertisement; provided, however, that
exposed neon tubing and exposed incandescent or other bulbs not exceeding 15
watts each shall be permitted.
   (D)   Flood and display lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent direct
rays of light and glare from being cast into a residential area or district
and/or vehicles approaching on a public right-of-way from any direction. Such
lighting shall also be shielded so as to prevent direct view of the light
source from a residence or residential district and/or vehicles approaching on
a public right-of-way from any direction.
(Prior Code, § 157.115) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.07 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Unless otherwise permitted, the following signs are prohibited in all use
districts:
   (A)   Signs advertising an activity, business, product or service no longer
conducted on the premises upon which the sign is located, with the exception of
balloon signs which may be used at community events;
   (B)   Signs which, because of their location, nature, color, shape or
message would tend to be confused with, or obstruct the view of, traffic and
emergency signals or signs;
   (C)   Signs which display copy of an immoral or indecent nature. The Board
of City Commissioners shall resolve any questions pertaining to this provision,
applying local community standards;
   (D)   Roof signs, with the exception of balloon signs;
   (E)   Mobile signs;
   (F)   By nuisance or hazardous characteristics.
      (1)   Signs which conflict with traffic control signs. Signs or sign
structures which by color, wording or location, resemble or conflict with
traffic control signs or devices;
      (2)   Signs which create safety hazards. Signs which obstruct vehicular-
views of pedestrians or other vehicles or pedestrian views of vehicles, so as
to affect the safety of the public;
      (3)   Rotating, moving, scintillating, blinking or flashing illumination
signs, except for randomly blinking Tivoli lights, or those permitted by
conditional use; and
      (4)   Electronic reader boards, of more than 32 square feet of area.
   (G)   Signs attached to trees, utility poles, and/or traffic signals; and
   (H)   Signs advertising off-premises uses or services, with the exception of
balloon signs located at a community event.
(Prior Code, § 157.116) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.08 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   All nonconforming signs shall comply with the following.
   (A)   No nonconforming sign shall have any changes made in the displayed on
the sign unless the sign is specifically designed for periodic change of
message.
   (B)   No nonconforming sign shall be structurally altered so as to change
the shape, size, type or design of the sign, nor shall any nonconforming sign
be relocated, unless such move shall create a conforming situation.
   (C)   No nonconforming sign shall be allowed to remain after the activity,
business or use to which it relates has been discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 157.117) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.09 INSURANCE.
   When the City Commission grants a waiver from these regulations for an
applicant to place a sign within the public right-of-way, the owner of the
premises, and the person in possession thereof, shall obtain and maintain the
liability insurance holding the city harmless for any liability arising from a
sign placed on or above public property. A certificate of such insurance shall
be provided to the city by the applicant upon request for waiver. Thereafter,
certificate of insurance shall be provided on an annual basis. No permit shall
be issued for the erection of any sign until satisfactory proof of insurance
has been approved by the Board of Commissioners or its agent.
(Prior Code, § 157.118) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than any
stated amount provided in KRS 534.040(c). Each day of violation after
notification shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 157.999) (Ord. 21-2012, passed 2-16-2012)
CHAPTER 159: EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
159.01   Introduction; purpose
   
159.02   Definitions
   
159.03   Permits
   
159.04   Review; issuance
   
159.05   Erosion prevention and sediment control plan
   
159.06   Design requirements
   
159.07   Inspection
   
159.08   Enforcement
 
   
159.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Post-construction storm water management, see §§
52.35 through
52.45
§ 159.01 INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Clean Water Act (CWA), EPA, and KYDOW established Phase II
regulations and mandated erosion protection and sediment control procedures for
land disturbance activity and site work construction in the Commonwealth.
   (B)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other
desirable species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers, ditches,
sinkholes and drywells. Streets and roads with sediment deposits are slick and
hazardous to the public. In addition, clearing and grading during construction
cause the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic
habitat.
   (C)   As a result, the purpose of this local regulation is to safeguard
persons, protect property and prevent damage to the environment in the city.
This chapter will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement
of earth of land in the city.
(Prior Code, § 159.01) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005)
§ 159.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). A measure that is implemented to protect
water quality and reduce the potential for pollution associated with storm
water runoff.
   BLUE LINE STREAMS. Streams that are represented on the United States
Department of the Interior Geological Survey 1:24,000 quadrangle maps.
   CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. A person who has received EPSC training and is
certified by the Ashland Public Services Department or Kentucky Division of
Water to inspect and maintain erosion and sediment control practices.
   CHANNEL. A natural or constructed/human- made watercourse with definite bed
and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water.
CHANNEL FLOW is that water which is flowing within the limits of the defined
channel.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Federal regulation that prohibits the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States unless the discharge is in accordance
with an NPDES permit.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CRITICAL AREA. A site difficult to stabilize due to exposed subsoil, steep
slope, extent of exposure or other conditions.
   DETENTION. The temporary delay of storm water runoff prior to discharge into
receiving waters.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, corporation, association partnership or
trust involved in commercial proceedings to affect development of land for
himself, herself or others.
   DRAINAGE BASIN. A part of the surface of the earth that is occupied by and
provides surface water runoff into a storm water management system, which
consists of a surface stream or a body of impounded surface water together with
all tributary surface streams and bodies of impounded surface water.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   DRAINAGE/DRY WELL. A bored, drilled, driven, dug or naturally occurring
shaft or hole with a depth greater than the largest surface dimension; used to
drain surface fluid, primarily storm water runoff, into a subsurface formation.
   EPHEMERAL STREAM. A stream or part of a stream that flows only in direct
response to precipitation or snowmelt. Its channel is above the water table at
all times.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity, ice or any combination of those forces.
   EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (EPSC). A set of plans prepared
by or under the direction of a qualified professional in the State of Kentucky
indicating the specific measures and sequencing to be used to control sediment
and erosion on a development site during and after construction.
   EXCAVATION. Any portion of land surface or area from which earth has been
removed or will be removed; the depth below original ground surface to
remaining surface.
   EXISTING GRADE. The slope or elevation of existing ground surface prior to
cutting or filling.
   FILL. Portion of land surface or area to which soil, rock or other materials
have been or will be added; height above original ground surface after the
material has been or will be added.
   FINISHED GRADE. The final slope or elevation of the ground surface after
cutting or filling.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat or lowland area adjoining a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other body of standing water which has been or may be
covered temporarily by floodwater; the 100-year floodplain having a 1% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling or stockpiling of earth or land,
including the land in its cut or filled condition, to create new grades.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any ground or structural surface that water cannot
penetrate or through which water penetrates with great difficulty.
   KYDOW GENERAL PERMIT. An agreement between the regulating authority (KYDOW)
and the permittee which specifies conservation practices that shall be
implemented in the construction of activities specified in the terms and
conditions of the general permit.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. The purposeful act of clearing, grubbing, excavating or
grading; disrupting ground surface by or for construction activities, including
access/roads, staging, and storage sites producing significant areas of exposed
soil and soil piles.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The EPA’s program
to control the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States. NPDES is
a part of the federal CWA, which requires point and non-point source
dischargers to obtain permits. These permits are referred to as NPDES PERMITS.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). A formal notice to the KYDOW that a construction
project seeking coverage under a general plan is about to begin.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT). A formal notice to the KYDOW that a
construction project is complete and seeking release for the EPSC and the state
general permit.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site by
filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   PERMIT PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of the next.
   PERMITTEE. The person, company, contractor or developer who is responsible
for the land-disturbing activity.
   PERMITTING AGENCY. The City of Ashland’s Public Services Department, or
other city department deemed appropriate, responsible for review and approval
permits and EPSC plans.
   PUBLIC STORM DRAIN. Drain system provided and maintained by the City of
Ashland, that is designed to help maintain storm water runoff and also provides
inlets for water to travel to holding areas attempting to remove excessive
water from streets and other areas.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water
or gravity as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SITE. A parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation subject to erosion of
sedimentation as a result of cutting, filling, grading or other disturbances of
the soil.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the Ashland Public Services
Department for the construction or alteration of ground improvements and
structures for the control of erosion, runoff, and grading.
   SITE WASTE CONTROL. The requirements set forth in this chapter are also
intended to control or eliminate waste from construction site operators that
may cause adverse impacts to water quality.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land-disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading and filling;
installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements, footings, piers
or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation of accessory
buildings such as garages.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). A plan which is based on hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine flood stage and required improvement to
minimize impacts by development.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan required by storm
water regulations or permits that includes site map(s), an identification of
construction/contractor activities that could cause pollutants in the storm
water, and a description of measures or practices to control these pollutants.
This is synonymous with the term BMP PLAN used in the KYDOW general permit.
   TEMPORARY PROTECTION. Short-term stabilization of erosive or sediment
producing areas.
   VEGETATIVE PROTECTION. Stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas
by covering the soil with any of the following materials: permanent seeding for
long-term vegetative cover, short-term seeding for temporary vegetative cover,
sodding, producing areas covered with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass,
tree planting or other planting.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams and bodies of water designated as part of the storm water
conveyance system.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drain.
(Prior Code, § 159.02) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005)
§ 159.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits through the city are required for all site construction
projects and/or land disturbances. Depending on the amount of land disturbance,
various levels of permits are required. Design requirements and erosion
prevention and sediment control plans shall be prepared in accordance with §§
159.05 and
159.06. Criteria for permit levels and submittal requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Level 1 permit.
         (a)   Site construction disturbs less than one acre of soil and is not
a part of a larger development;
         (b)   Increased impervious area is less than 3,400 square feet;
         (c)   Ground slopes are less than 6%; and
         (d)   Submit level 1 permit application accompanied by a plot plan
that shows general erosion protection and sediment control notations and
practices.
      (2)   Level 2 permit.
         (a)   Site construction disturbs less than one acre of soil and is not
a part of a larger development;
         (b)   Increased impervious area is greater than 3,400 square feet;
         (c)   Ground slopes are less than 6%; and
         (d)   Submit level 2 permit application accompanied by a detailed
grading/erosion prevention and sediment control plan with details.
      (3)   Level 3 permit.
         (a)   Site construction disturbs one acre or greater of soil; and
         (b)   Submit level 3 permit application accompanied by a detailed
grading/erosion prevention and sediment control plan and a SWPP plan prepared
by a qualified professional; submit KYDOW notice of intent (NOI). Copies of all
state applications, plans, and NOIs must be submitted to the City of Ashland.
      (4)   Level 4 permit.
         (a)   Operations disturb less than one acre;
         (b)   Submit level 4 permit application; and
         (c)   Permit renewed every three years.
   (B)   The contractor shall coordinate with the KYDOW and the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers to determine whether permits are required from those agencies
before construction begins.
   (C)   No permit through the city is required for the following activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources; and
      (2)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use. However, permitting through regional, state
and federal agencies may be required.
   (D)   Each permit application shall bear the name(s), telephone information,
electronic contact information (if available) and address(es) of the owner and/
or developer of the site, contractor for the site, and any consulting firm
retained by the applicant together with the name of the applicant’s principal
contact at the firm and shall be accompanied by a permit fee.
   (E)   Each permit application shall include a statement that any land
clearing, construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with the EPSC plan and that a certified contractor be responsible
for implementing and maintaining all aspects of that plan.
(Prior Code, § 159.03) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.04 REVIEW; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The city’s Department of Public Services will review each permit
application to determine its conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
Acceptance indicates that minimum requirements or intent are met and does not
imply a guarantee of performance. Based on the review of the permit
application, the permitting agency will:
      (1)   Accept the permit application submittal;
      (2)   Accept the permit application submittal subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to meet the requirements/intent of the
objectives of this chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions;
or
      (3)   Deny the permit application, indicating the reason(s) and procedure
for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   The Department of Public Services or any other city department
reserves the right to inspect the site prior to any construction activity in
furtherance of the review process.
   (C)   The Department of Public Services acceptance of the permit is for
general compliance with local requirements and the KYDOW permit. The designer
and/or engineer is ultimately responsible for the details of design of the EPSC
plan, with the property owner/developer being responsible for implementation.
   (D)   The city will not issue a building permit until the required site
permit application is accepted and the permit issued.
(Prior Code, § 159.04) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005)
§ 159.05 EROSION PREVENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   The erosion and sediment control (EPSC) plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   A natural resources map identifying soil types, forest cover,
topography and other natural features of concern. This map should be to scale
equivalent to balance of submittal;
      (2)   A schedule of events for the construction of the development site,
including stripping and clearing, rough grading, construction of utilities,
infrastructure, final grading and landscaping. Sequencing shall identify the
expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated duration of exposure
of cleared areas, areas of clearing, installation of temporary EPSC measures
and establishment of permanent vegetation;
      (3)   All EPSC measures necessary shall be shown on the plan by location
and referred to by a legend for all phases of construction. Depending upon the
complexity of the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required
at the close of each season. Multiple EPSC plan sheets may be necessary to best
convey requirements for each phase;
      (4)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilization
application, and type and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures;
      (5)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance; and
      (6)   The proposed plan to control site waste, including a delineation of
contractor staging areas for equipment and fuel storage, site materials and
temporary facilities.
   (B)   Modifications to the plan shall be processed and accepted or denied in
the same manner as §
159.04 and may be authorized by the Department of Public Services by written
authorization to the permittee, and shall include:
      (1)   Major amendments of the EPSC plan require a qualified
professional’s signature and shall be submitted to the Department of Public
Services for acceptance; and
      (2)   Field modifications of a minor nature shall require a qualified
professional’s signature and shall be noted and dated on the EPSC record
drawings and available for review and acceptance by the Department of Public
Services.
(Prior Code, § 159.05) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.06 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any permitted land disturbance operation shall meet the design
criteria set forth in the most recent version of the City of Ashland’s Storm
Water Manual, and shall be adequate to prevent erosion and control sediment
from the site to the satisfaction of the Department of Public Services. Cut and
fill slopes shall be no greater than 3:1, except as approved by the Department
of Public Services to meet other community or environmental objectives.
   (B)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, and other natural features of concern shall not be permitted, except
when in compliance with all sections of this chapter as well as any regional,
state and federal regulation. Clearing techniques that retain natural
vegetation, drainage patterns, and buffers along streams as described by the
Storm Water Manual, shall be used to the satisfaction of the Department of
Public Services.
   (C)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices,
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized.
   (D)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing over 50 acres, with
the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as approved by the
Department of Public Services.
   (E)   Erosion prevention BMP requirements.
      (1)   Soil stabilization shall be completed within 14 days of final grade
work. If an area is left inactive for 21 days or more, the area shall have
temporary stabilization.
      (2)   If seeding or other vegetative erosion prevention methods are used,
vegetation shall become established within three weeks. If a satisfactory stand
of vegetation is not established, the Department of Public Services may require
the site to be reseeded or a non-vegetative option employed.
      (3)   Special techniques such as rip rap, turf reinforcement, armoring,
and other methods that meet the design criteria outlined in the Storm Water
Manual on steep slopes or in drainage ways shall be used to ensure
stabilization.
      (4)   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized or covered and/or have sediment
control measures in place to control sediment movement. Stockpiles shall have
temporary vegetation established if they are going to be left for 21 days or
more.
      (5)   During the winter months, at the close of the construction season,
when no construction is going on, the entire site must be stabilized, using a
heavy mulch layer or other methods that do not require germination to control
sediment and prevent erosion.
      (6)   Minimize clearing and grading to the smallest possible area.
Preserve existing vegetation and trees to the maximum extent possible.
      (7)   Areas to be left undisturbed during construction shall be clearly
noted and delineated on the plan.
      (8)   Vegetative buffer strips in combination with other perimeter
controls shall be used for the protection of adjacent properties, watercourses
and rights-of-way.
      (9)   Measures shall be implemented to control sedimentation deposits
into drainage structures
and features, receiving water bodies, natural karst features, roads, rights-of-
way and adjacent properties.
   (F)   Sediment control BMP requirements.
      (1)   Dust control techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of
dust by air movements during land disturbance, demolition and other
construction activities.
      (2)   Diversion of upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
implemented when necessary.
      (3)   Settling basins, sediment traps, tanks and/or perimeter controls
shall be implemented as required by the Storm Water Manual to control sediment.
      (4)   Effective debris and trash management shall be required. At a
minimum, the following shall be met:
         (a)   Implementing waste management practices and disposal of wastes
including a designated waste collection area on site that does not drain
directly to a waterway, ensuring storage containers have lids, regular
scheduled waste collection (daily, weekly, and the like) to prevent
overfilling, cleaning up spills immediately and disposal of construction site
waste at authorized landfills or disposal areas. Concrete trucks must wash out
on the job site and the runoff not allowed to drain onto public streets or into
the storm water collection system; and
         (b)   Disposal plan for hazardous materials that may be utilized
during construction in accordance with local and state solid waste regulatory
agencies.
   (G)   Waterway, watercourse, ephemeral stream and public storm drain
protection requirements shall include the following:
      (1)   A temporary stream crossing installed and approved by the Kentucky
Division of Water and the Department of Public Services if a watercourse will
be crossed regularly during construction;
      (2)   Stabilization of the watercourse channel before, during and after
any in-channel work;
      (3)   Design of all on-site storm water conveyance channels in accordance
with criteria outlined in the Storm Water Manual; and
      (4)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion located at the inlets and
outlets of all pipes and paved channels.
   (H)   Construction site access requirements designed to minimize the deposit
of sediment or other materials on public streets and rights-of-way shall
include:
      (1)   Continuous access via a stabilized rock entrance, constructed in
accordance with the city’s Storm Water Manual; and
      (2)   A tire wash rack may also be required by the Department of Public
Services.
(Prior Code, § 159.06) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Plans accepted by the Department of Public Services for grading,
stripping, excavating and filling work shall be maintained on site throughout
the duration of the work. After EPSC measures have been installed, contact the
Department of Public Services and request a pre-construction inspection.
   (B)   Upon completion of the pre-construction inspection and approval of
EPSC measures, the permit will be issued and site construction may commence.
   (C)   The Department of Public Services’ designated agent shall make
inspections as deemed necessary to ensure the EPSC measures are being properly
implemented and maintained during construction. If minimum requirements for the
EPSC are not met, the permittee shall be notified and enforcement actions shall
be taken.
   (D)   The permittee or his or her agent shall make regular inspections of
all control measures to determine the overall effectiveness of the EPSC plan
and the need for additional control measures. The frequency of these
inspections shall be once every seven calendar days and before and after storm
events of a half-inch of precipitation or more. All inspections shall be
documented in written form and kept on the construction site. Reports should be
available for the Department of Public Services or state inspectors to review
upon request during a site inspection.
   (E)   The Department of Public Services’ designated agent shall enter the
property of the applicant as deemed necessary to make regular inspections to
ensure the validity of the reports filed under division (D) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 159.07) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Stop work order; revocation of permit. In the event that any person
holding a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms
of the permit or implements site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of the public near the
development site or vicinity so as to be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity, the
Department of Public Services may suspend or revoke the site development
permit.
   (B)   Violation. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or
maintain any grading, excavation, or fill, or cause the same to be done,
contrary to or in violation of any terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.08) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005) Penalty, see §
159.99
§ 159.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day during which any violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted, shall
constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, the
person, partnership or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000 for each offense. (Note for each day that the prohibited action is
continued, it shall constitute a separate offense.)
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty authorized by this chapter, any
person, partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be required to bear the expense of such restoration.
(Prior Code, § 159.99) (Ord. 39-2005, passed 3-17-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   CITY DEVELOPMENT
      
V.   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
VII.   CONTRACTS
      
VIII.   DEDICATIONS
      
IX.   EASEMENTS
      
X.   FRANCHISES
      
XI.   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS
      
XII.   OPENINGS
      
XIII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
XIV.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
XV.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
XVI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
XVII.   REPEALED ORDINANCES
      
XVIII.   AD VALOREM TAXATION AND REGULATORY LICENSE FEES
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Approving and accepting paved streets, sanitary and storm
70-1977   11-3-1977   sewers, water lines, mains and appurtenances, on Stella
                      Drive, lying and being within the Gla-Low Apartment
                      Complex.
                      Approving and accepting paved streets, sanitary and storm
71-1977   11-3-1977   sewers, water lines, mains and appurtenances, on Carl
                      Perkins Drive and Fleming Court, lying and being within
                      the Hillcrest Apartment Complex.
                      Approving and accepting paved streets, sanitary and storm
72-1977   11-3-1977   sewers, water lines, mains and appurtenances on Donna
                      Court and Clements Drive lying and being within the Bruce
                      Apartment Complex.
                      Approving and accepting paved streets, sanitary sewers,
                      storm sewers, water mains, water lines and appurtenances
56-1979   12-20-1979  on Hunter Court in the Mount Adams Extension adjoining
                      Mount Adams Subdivision within the corporate limits of
                      the city.
                      Approving and accepting for maintenance of paving, curbs
40-1980   5-1-1980    and gutters, a portion of Pleasant Avenue in the Mount
                      Adams Subdivision which portion provides access to Mount
                      Adams extension within the corporate limits of the city.
84-1980   8-21-1980   Accepting the improvements made to the Winchester Avenue
                      Street Scape Projection.
                      Approving the acceptance of certain water lines from the
                      Cannonsburg Water District in exchange for the city
137-1985  12-4-1985   waiving any increase in water fees charged Cannonsburg
                      Water District prior to the meter reading of June 5,
                      1985.
                      Accepting for maintenance and upkeep a 450-foot section
86-1986   9-2-1986    of sewer line along Summitt Road in Summitt, Boyd County,
                      Kentucky, to serve the National Guard operation and
                      maintenance shop along Summitt Road.
                      Accepting the sewer extension line from Corbin, Ltd.,
135-1987  12-1-1987   located in the Paul Coffey Industrial Park, Boyd County,
                      Kentucky.
12-1988   2-2-1988    Accepting the dedication of Hagan Court into the city
                      public street system.
                      Accepting for maintenance and upkeep a sanitary sewer
89-1989   8-15-1989   line to serve Lots 1 through 14 of the English Estates
                      Subdivision.
                      Accepting for maintenance and upkeep a sanitary sewer
12-1990   3-6-1990    line to serve Lots 1 through 21 of the Sherwood Heights
                      Subdivision.
                      Stating the city s intent to accept for maintenance and
                      upkeep a sanitary sewer line to be constructed extending
136-1990  11-12-1990  from the existing line along U.S. Route 60 at the
                      intersection of Raybourne Road to a point in front of the
                      Big Lot Shopping Center.
                      Citing the city s intent to accept for maintenance and
                      upkeep a sanitary sewer line to be constructed on Khanna
139-1990  11-12-1990  Court in the Khanna Subdivision which is adjacent to
                      Southern Hills Subdivision extending for a distance of
                      910 feet.
                      Accepting for maintenance and upkeep sanitary sewer lines
22-1991   3-8-1991    constructed on Khanna Court for an approximate distance
                      of 910 feet.
                      Stating the city s intent to accept for maintenance and
67-1992   5-22-1992   upkeep water lines constructed along Southern Hills Drive
                      and Cheshire Drive.
                      Stating the city s intent to accept for ownership,
124-1992  10-6-1992   operation and maintenance sewer main lines constructed
                      within the Ashland Park Subdivision, phase I.
                      Accepting for ownership, operation and maintenance of the
145-1992  11-17-1992  sanitary sewer main lines constructed along U.S. Route 60
                      at the intersection of Raybourne Road to a point in front
                      of the Garden Center Roller Rink.
                      Stating intent to accept for maintenance and upkeep a
11-1993   2-2-1993    sanitary sewer line to be constructed along Southern
                      Hills Drive.
                      Accepting for ownership, operation and maintenance the
77-1993   7-20-1993   sanitary sewer main lines constructed along Southern
                      Hills Drive.
164-1994  12-1-1994   Authorizing acceptance of $2,746.78 by the Police
                      Department from the Auxiliary Police.
133-1995  10-19-1995  Accepting for dedication certain property off Mantz
                      Street behind Blackburn Avenue for a public alley.
                      Authorizing acceptance of an award of $16,536 from the
110-1999  9-16-1999   FIVCO Area Development Fund to be used toward the
                      purchase of two thermal imagining cameras for the Fire
                      Department.
                      Authorizing the acceptance of a deed of the AK Steel
124-2003  10-16-2003  Sports Park located on Blackburn Avenue from UK King s
                      DaughtersHealth Foundation.
63-2006   5-18-2006   Authorizing the acceptance of a deed of a property
                      located at 1560 Prospect Place.
64-2006   5-18-2006   Authorizing the acceptance of a deed of a property
                      located at 3219 Central Avenue.
88-2008   9-4-2008    Authorizing acceptance of the eastern half of Lot 70 and
                      all of Lot 71 on Weymouth Drive.
37-2012   6-7-2012    Authorizing acceptance of a segment of River Hill Drive
                      (CS 2615) and its right-of-way.
34-2014   4-24-2014   Authorizing the acceptance of a deed of conveyance for
                      Lots 6A and 6B of the Melody Mountain Subdivision.
                      Accepting for ownership, operation and maintenance of the
20-2015   2-12-2015   sanitary sewer main lines and the water main lines
                      constructed in the Melody Mountain Development.
                      Accepting for ownership, operation and maintenance of the
128-2016  11-10-2016  ten inch water line and meter pit constructed for the
                      Ashland Community and Technical College project on
                      College Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a deed of
81, 2022  5-26-2022   conveyance between the city and Community Trust Bank
                      accepting the donation of tracts of land commonly known
                      and referred to as the Community Trust Parking Garage.
                      Designating the unnamed roadway leading from Southern
108, 2022 6-24-2022   Hills Drive to 3900 Southern Hills Drive as Khanna Court
                      and accepting ownership, maintenance and operations
                      responsibilities for Khanna Court.
                      Accepting from Steak 'N Shake of Ashland, Inc. right-of-
                      way over the southwest corner of Steak 'N Shake property
54, 2023  4-28-2023   situated on the northerly side of Armco Road as right-of-
                      way for official ownership and maintenance
                      responsibility.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a deed of
                      conveyance between the city and Boyd Company (f/k/
62, 2024  4-11-2024   a Whayne Supply) conveying a parcel of land located on
                      U.S. Route 60 and in the center of Marsh Run pursuant to
                      the lease agreement dated July 24, 1979.
                     
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.     Date Passed Description
                     Annexing the certain unincorporated territory generally
                     bounded by 55th Street and Woodland Terrace and beginning
55-1987  6-16-1987   at a point in the existing southeasterly corporation line
                     of the city, said point being N 66 degrees 15' E 2,200
                     feet more or less from the centerline of KY 168.
                     Annexing an area southeast of the present city corporation
                     limits in Southern Hills Subdivision along Southern Hills
83-1989  8-8-1989    Drive and beginning at an iron pin in the westerly right-
                     of-way of 60 foot roadway N 62 degrees 35' 52" W, 271.20
                     feet to a 4-inch dogwood.
20-1993  3-16-1993   Stating intent to annex an area southeast of the
                     corporation limits, known as the Ashland Park subdivision.
36-1993  4-20-1993   Stating intent to annex 4020 Southern Hills Drive.
44-1993  5-6-1993    Annexing 4020 Southern Hills Drive.
65-1993  6-3-1993    Annexing Ashland Park Subdivision.
103-1995 8-17-1995   Annexing 4429 Southern Hills Drive.
3-1996   1-14-1996   Annexing Hampton Hills Subdivision.
85-1996  8-1-1996    Annexing 4431 Southern Hills Drive.
31-2004  2-20-2004   Annexing Melody Mountain project area at the prior written
                     request of the owners.
                     Expressing intent to annex approximately 85.791 acres
22-2005  2-17-2005   located along U.S. Route 23, and being west and northwest
                     of the city, being certain parcels generally described as
                     Providence Hill.
59-2005  5-5-2005    Annexing the Melody Mountain project phase II Area at the
                     prior written request of the owners.
66-2005  5-5-2005    Annexing a portion of Boyd County generally described as
                     Providence Hill.
                    
 
TABLE III: BONDS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Providing for the issuance of $4,650,000 of special
                      obligation notes (school building revenue bond
                      anticipation renewal notes) and of $4,650,000 of special
                      obligation bonds (school building revenue bonds) to
                      provide funds to retire $4,580,000 face amount of City of
                      Ashland (Kentucky) school building revenue bond
110-1985  10-1-1985   anticipation refunding notes, series of December 1, 1982,
                      and providing and determining the duty of said city, in
                      connection with the operation of the school properties
                      and the creation of funds sufficient to pay the principal
                      of and interest on said revenue bonds as and when they
                      mature and the creation of an adequate maintenance and
                      insurance fund.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $625,000 industrial building
                      revenue bonds (Daniel s Home Bakery, Inc. project) the
112-1985  10-1-1985   proceeds of which shall be loaned to Daniel s Home
                      Bakery, Inc. to finance the acquisition, renovation and
                      equipping of an industrial building located within the
                      city.
                      Providing for the issuance of $8,500,000 of school
                      building revenue bonds to provide funds to retire
                      $4,650,000 face amount of City of Ashland (Kentucky)
                      school building revenue bond anticipation renewal notes,
41-1986   6-17-1986   series of 1985, (which had provided interim financing of
                      the Verity School project), and to provide funds to
                      finance the cost of constructing two new school buildings
                      to be known as Hager Elementary School and Oak View
                      Elementary School.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $650,000 industrial building
                      revenue bonds (First American Bank project) the proceeds
                      of which shall be loaned to First American Bank to
46-1986   6-17-1986   finance the acquisition of land and the construction,
                      renovation and equipping of an industrial building
                      designed for revitalization and redevelopment of a
                      downtown business district.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $10,000,000 pollution control
                      revenue bonds, series 1986 (Ashland Oil, Inc. project)
62-1986   7-15-1986   for the purpose of making a loan to assist Ashland Oil,
                      Inc. in the financing of costs of pollution control
                      facilities.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $15,000,000 pollution control
                      revenue refunding bonds, series 1987 (Ashland Oil, Inc.
                      project) for the purpose of refunding a $15,000,000
63-1987   6-16-1987   portion of pollution control revenue bonds, series 1982
                      of the city previously issued in the aggregate principal
                      amount of $72,000,000 for the purpose of making a loan to
                      assist Ashland Oil, Inc. in the financing of costs of
                      pollution control facilities.
                      Authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of
                      $8,000,000 principal amount of city utilities revenue
76-1987   8-4-1987    bonds of 1987, for the purpose of financing the costs
                      (not otherwise provided) of the construction of
                      extensions, additions and improvements to the combined
                      and consolidated municipal waterworks and sewer system.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $36,000,000 adjustable tender
                      pollution control revenue refunding bonds (Ashland Oil,
                      Inc. project), series 1988A, for the purpose of refunding
46-1988   6-7-1988    two prior issues of revenue bonds issued by the city in
                      the aggregate principal amount of $36,000,000 to make
                      loans to assist Ashland Oil, Inc. in the financing of
                      costs of pollution control facilities or to refund a
                      prior issue of revenue bonds issued for that purpose.
                      Authorizing and approving $1,565,000 tax increment
                      revenue bonds (West Ashland Redevelopment Area project),
157-1988  12-22-1988  1988 series A and $685,000 tax increment revenue bonds
                      (West Ashland Redevelopment Area project), 1988 series B
                      of Ashland Capital Projects Corporation.
                      Authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of
                      $4,635,000 principal amount of city utilities revenue
                      refunding bonds of 1991, for the purpose of refunding
                      $5,620,000 of city utilities revenue bonds of 1985
                      previously issued for the purpose of financing the costs
                      (not otherwise provided) of the construction of
7-1991    1-15-1991   extensions, additions, and improvements to the combined
                      and consolidated municipal waterworks and sewer system;
                      providing for the call and redemption on April 1, 1991 of
                      the bonds of 1985 providing for said bonds to rank on a
                      parity with the outstanding $3,210,000 of city utilities
                      refunding revenue bonds of 1978, the bonds of 1978, and
                      the outstanding $8,000,000 of city utilities revenue
                      bonds of 1987.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $20,000,000 solid waste
                      revenue bonds, series 1991 (Ashland Oil, Inc. Project)
                      for the purpose of making a loan to assist Ashland Oil,
116-1991  10-29-1991  Inc. in the financing of costs of pollution control
                      facilities and authorizing the execution and delivery of
                      a loan agreement providing for the payment of, and a
                      trust indenture securing, those bonds.
                      Authorizing commitment letter and economic development
                      bond grant agreement with the State Cabinet for Economic
129-1991  11-22-1991  Development, State Property and Buildings Commission, the
                      Economic Development Corporation and Corbin, Ltd. in the
                      amount of $300,000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $30,000,000 pollution control
                      refunding revenue bonds, series 1992 (Ashland Oil, Inc.
                      Project) for the purpose of refunding the remaining
73-1992   6-16-1992   outstanding principal portion of the city pollution
                      control revenue bonds, series 1982 (Ashland Oil, Inc.
                      Project); and authorizing the execution and delivery of a
                      loan agreement providing for the payment of, and of a
                      trust indenture securing, those bonds.
108-1992  8-4-1992    Amending Ord. 73-1992 by changing the date and final
                      maturity of and interest payment dates for those bonds.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $33,400,000 pollution control
                      refunding revenue bonds, series 1993 (Ashland Oil, Inc.
                      Project) for the purpose of refunding the $27,700,000
                      pollution control refunding revenue bonds, series 1985
122-1993  11-18-1993  (Ashland Oil, Inc. Project) and $5,700,000 principal
                      amount pollution control revenue bonds, series 1986
                      (Ashland Oil, Inc. Project); and authorizing the
                      execution and delivery of a loan agreement providing for
                      the payment of, and of a trust indenture securing, those
                      bonds.
                      Amending certain of the provisions of the industrial
                      building revenue bonds (Ashland Area Young Men s
130-1993  12-2-1993   Christian Assoc., Inc. Project) in the original principal
                      amount of $650,000; and authorizing the execution of
                      certain other related documents.
                      Authorizing the issuance of a floating indebtedness
                      funding bond; approving a form of bond; authorizing
                      execution, filing, payment, security of bond and related
93-1994   7-7-1994    documents; creating a sinking fund; making certain
                      federal income tax covenants; authorizing acceptance of
                      the bid of the bond purchaser for the purchase of the
                      bond.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $55,000,000 sewage and solid
7-1996    2-2-1995    waste revenue bonds series 1995 (Ashland Inc. Project)
                      for the purpose of making a loan to assist in the
                      financing of costs of pollution control facilities.
                      Authorizing a first amendment to the loan agreement dated
16-1995   2-16-1995   October 1, 1991, with Ashland Oil, Inc. relating to the
                      city s $20,000,000 solid waste revenue bonds, series 1991
                      (Ashland Oil, Inc. Project).
                      Approving the amendment of the indenture of trust dated
16-1996   2-15-1996   December 1, 1983, and the loan agreement dated December
                      1, 1983, securing the city s economic development revenue
                      bonds (Ashland Plaza Hotel Project), series 1983.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $10,000,000 pollution control
                      refunding revenue bonds, series 1996 (Ashland Inc.
40-1996   5-2-1996    Project) for the purpose of refunding the $10,000,000
                      pollution control revenue bonds, series 1986 (Ashland
                      Oil, Inc. Project) dated July 1, 1986.
                      Authorizing the execution of a first amendment to the
65-1996   6-25-1996   loan agreement dated February 1, 1995, with Ashland Inc.
                      relating to the city s $55,000,000 sewage and solid waste
                      revenue bonds, series 1995 (Ashland Inc. Project).
                      Authorizing the issuance of $10,000,000 taxable solid
                      waste revenue notes, series 1996 (Ashland Inc. Project)
71-1996   7-2-1996    for the purpose of making a loan to assist Ashland Inc.
                      in the financing of costs of pollution control
                      facilities.
                      Providing for the issuance of its cultural and
                      recreational development revenue bonds, series 1998,
                      (Ashland Area Young Men s Christian Association, Inc.
                      Project) in the amount of up to $800,000 for the
119-1998  12-17-1998  construction and equipping of cultural and recreational
                      facilities including a new youth entrance and lounge,
                      expansion of the fitness forum, the addition of an
                      aerobic studio and the installation of an elevator for
                      handicapped patrons, located at 3232 13th Street.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $2,665,000 general obligation
111-1999  9-16-1999   public project refunding and improvement bonds, series
                      1999.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $36,000,000 pollution control
116-1999  10-21-1999  refunding revenue bonds series 1999 (Ashland Oil, Inc.
                      Project).
                      Authorizing and approving the call for optional
136-2000  9-26-2000   redemption of $1,600,000 principal amount of utilities
                      refunding revenue bonds of 1978 and $1,625,000 principal
                      amount of utilities revenue bonds of 1987.
                      Approving amendments to financing documents related to
                      the issuance of floating rate pollution control revenue
65-2003   6-17-2003   bonds, series 1983; authorizing release of a guaranty
                      agreement and execution of a remarking agreement;
                      approving delivery of an alternate letter of credit and
                      providing an effective date.
                      Establishing the rules, regulations and conditions for
                      the issuance of water and sewer system revenue bonds and
9-2004    1-15-2004   providing for the collection, segregation and
                      distribution of the revenues of the water and sewer
                      system.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $8,220,000 principal amount
10-2004   1-15-2004   of water and sewer system revenue refunding and
                      improvement bonds, series 2004.
                      Authorizing the issuance of general obligation public
146-2005  10-4-2005   project bonds, series 2005 in the aggregate principal
                      amount of $3,290,000.
                      Authorizing a municipal road and bond fund agreement
                      between the city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
151-2005  10-20-2005  Transportation Cabinet, Department of Intergovernmental
                      Programs accepting all streets therein which are a part
                      of the city for bituminous resurfacing.
                      Authorizing the issuance of $4,945,000 principal amount
16-2013   2-7-2013    of water and sewer system revenue refunding bonds, series
                      2013.
75-2014   8-14-2014   Authorizing the issuance of $3,620,000 principal amount
                      of water and sewer system revenue bonds, series 2014.
                      Authorizing the issuance of general obligation refunding
13-2015   1-22-2015   bonds, series 2015, in an aggregate principal amount not
                      to exceed $2,915.000.
                      Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds,
85-2017   8-24-2017   series 2017, in an aggregate principal amount of
                      approximately $4,635,000, which may be increased or
                      decreased by up to $465,000.
48, 2020  5-7-2020    Authorizing the issuance of $10,500,000 principal amount
                      of water and sewer system revenue bonds, series 2020A.
                      Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds,
                      series 2021A, in the approximate aggregate principal
68, 2021  5-27-2021   amount of $12,750,000, subject to a permitted adjustment
                      increasing principal amount by up to $1,275,000 or
                      decreasing the principal amount by any amount.
                      Authorizing the issuance of city general obligation
                      bonds, series 2024A in a maximum aggregate principal
                      amount not to exceed $10,000,000, for the purpose of
                      financing the costs of the acquisition, construction,
                      installation and equipping of a new conference center;
                      approving the form of the bonds; authorizing designated
150, 2024 8-23-2024   officers of the city to execute and deliver the bonds;
                      authorizing and directing the filing of a notice with the
                      State Local Debt Officer; providing for the payment of
                      and security for the bonds; establishing a bond payment
                      fund for the bonds; affirming the existing sinking fund;
                      authorizing the acceptance of the bid of the purchaser
                      for the bonds.
                      Authorizing additional public project to be financed with
181, 2024 11-14-2024  the proceeds of the general obligation bonds, Series
                      2024A.
                     
 
 
TABLE IV: CITY DEVELOPMENT
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Designating an area within the corporate limits for
105-1983  7-21-1983   revitalization or redevelopment of the Downtown Business
                      District for the issuance of industrial revenue bonds.
                      Designating an area as an Enterprise Zone, beginning at a
120-1984  8-23-1984   point in west Ashland where the corporation line meets
                      the Ohio River, and authorizing the Mayor to submit an
                      application for authorization to establish it.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a request to approve a
137-1984  11-27-1984  boundary amendment to the area designated as an
                      Enterprise Zone by Ord. 120-1984.
                      Authorizing the expansion of the city s enterprise zone
129-1987  11-17-1987  beginning at a point in west Ashland where the
                      corporation line meets the Ohio River.
2-1988    1-19-1988   Amending Section 1 of Ord. 129-1987, description of the
                      expansion of the city s enterprise zone.
                      Amending Section 1 of Ord. 129-1987, as previously
65-1988   7-19-1988   amended by Ord. 2-1988, description of the expansion of
                      the city s enterprise zone.
                      Establishing a development area for a public project as
36-1988   5-10-1988   defined in KRS 58.010 and authorizing the issuance of
                      qualified redevelopment bonds.
                      Authorizing local matching funds for the Boyd County
                      Historical Society to support a federal survey and
115-1991  10-22-1991  planning grant from Kentucky Heritage Council to conduct
                      a neighborhood survey and to evaluate previously
                      undocumented historic properties.
                      Authorizing an agreement with the State Department for
3-1992    1-21-1992   Local Government for the use of ARC 302 planning and
                      technical assistance funding for downtown development and
                      revitalization.
                      Authorizing professional services agreement with the city
4-1992    1-21-1992   Main Street program for administration of the city s ARC
                      302 grant.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Woolpert Consultants to
151-1992  12-15-1992  provide engineering services to revitalize the East
                      Central Avenue neighborhood in an amount not to exceed
                      $30,000.
                      Authorizing agreement with the Department for Local
157-1992  12-16-1992  Government for the use of ARC 302 planning and technical
                      assistance funding for downtown development and
                      revitalization in the amount of $10,000.
                      Authorizing professional services agreement with the city
158-1992  12-16-1992  s Main Street program for administration of the city s
                      ARC 302 grant awarded for 1992-93.
                      Authorizing agreements with the Kentucky Housing Corp.
                      and other public agencies relating to the grant award of
15-1993   2-16-1993   $108,133 from the Kentucky Housing Authority under the
                      Home Investment Partnership Program; and authorizing
                      execution of related documents.
                      Authorizing contract with the Geiger Easter Seal Speech
                      and Hearing Center in the amount of $19,280 to be used
46-1993   5-6-1993    for expansion of the augmentative communications-
                      assistive listening devices program to be paid from CDBG
                      funds.
                      Authorizing agreement with the State Cabinet for Human
58-1993   6-1-1993    Resources, Department for Social Insurance, for
                      continuation of the city s community development
                      weatherization program in the amount of $127,467.
                      Authorizing agreement with the State Department of Local
124-1993  11-18-1993  Government for the use of ARC 302 planning and technical
                      assistance funding for downtown development and
                      revitalization in the amount of $10,000.
                      Authorizing a professional services agreement with
125-1993  11-18-1993  Ashland Main Street, Inc. for administration of the city
                      s ARC 302 grant awarded to the city for fiscal year 1993-
                      1994.
                      Authorizing contract with the FIVCO Area Development
141-1993  12-16-1993  District in the amount of $151,000 to be used to purchase
                      a building located on 29th Street and Carter Avenue to be
                      paid from CDBG funds.
1-1994    1-6-1994    Authorizing contract with Ashland Adult Education/
                      Literacy Program in the amount of $9,863.60.
                      Authorizing contract with Ashland Main Street, Inc. in
4-1994    1-6-1994    the amount of $12,000 to prepare the city to become a
                      certified local government for historic preservation
                      purposes to be paid from CDBG funds.
                      Authorizing contract with the Chamber of Commerce of Boyd
                      and Greenup Counties, the Kentucky Mainstream Alliance
                      for Women Business Owners and Venture Concepts in the
31-1994   2-17-1994   amount of $30,125 to be used to provide a business
                      ownership success series to new and existing small
                      business owners through scholarships to be paid from CDBG
                      funds.
                      Authorizing the Urban Renewal and Community Development
                      Agency to obligate up to the budgeted amount in Section 8
57-1994   5-5-1994    excess administrative fees to assist in the purchase of
                      property to be used as a homeless shelter by the Shelter
                      of Hope, Inc. Amended by Ord. 102-2003.
                      Authorizing agreement with Paramount Arts Center, Inc.,
86-1994   6-16-1994   granting them $40,000 for the advancement of designated
                      cultural and related activities within the city.
                      Authorizing contract with Coalition for Developmentally
128-1994  10-6-1994   Delayed Adults in the amount of $19,535 to be paid from
                      community development block grant funds and repealing
                      Ord. 12-1994.
156-1994  11-17-1994  Authorizing use of Central Park by Winter Wonderland and
                      prohibiting commercial sales or activities.
                      Authorizing the initiation of proceedings to acquire
                      property within the East Central Avenue Neighborhood
162-1994  12-1-1994   Revitalization Area to extend 35th Street to Winchester
                      Avenue and to create a recreation area around Chatteroi
                      Street.
                      Authorizing the submission of a amended final statement
167-1994  12-15-1994  of community block grant years XIX and XX objectives and
                      projected use of funds to the Federal Department of
                      Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the
                      Department of Local Government for the use of ARC 302
17-1995   2-16-1995   planning and technical assistance funding for the
                      downtown development and revitalization in the amount of
                      $10,000.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional services
18-1995   2-16-1995   agreement with Ashland Main Street, Inc. for
                      administration of the ARC 302 grant.
                      Authorizing the submission of an amended final statement
27-1995   3-2-1995    of community development block grant years XIX and CC
                      objectives and projected use of funds to the Federal
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Fields
42-1995   4-20-1995   Excavating for the 29th Street renovations in an amount
                      not to exceed $280,000.
                      Adopting the consolidated plan which takes the place of
43-1995   5-4-1995    the final statement of objectives and use of funds and
                      becomes the CDBG program of operation.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional services
46-1995   5-4-1995    contract with Parsons Engineering Services for the
                      performance of an environmental assessment of the Ashland
                      Hide property in an amount not to exceed $27,000.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Lights
58-1995   6-1-1995    Enterprises, Inc. for the storm drain and paving project
                      on Clements Drive in an amount not to exceed $88,000.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the
151-1995  11-16-1995  Department of Local Government for the use of ARC 302
                      planning and technical assistance funding for downtown
                      development and revitalization in the amount of $10,000.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional services
152-1995  11-16-1995  agreement with Ashland Main Street, Inc. for
                      administration of the ARC 302 grant.
158-1995  11-16-1995  Authorizing the use of Central Park by Winter Wonderland
                      prohibiting commercial sales.
                      Authorizing the submission of the 1997 action plan for a
41-1996   5-2-1996    community block grant in the sum of $884,000 to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development.
66-1996   6-25-1996   Amending Ord. 129-1987 relating to the city s expansion
                      of the Enterprise Zone.
                      Authorizing use of Central Park and the parade route by
110-1996  11-7-1996   Winter Wonderland and prohibiting commercial sales or
                      activities.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the
118-1996  11-21-1996  Department of Local Government for the use of ARC 302
                      planning and technical assistance funding for downtown
                      development and revitalization in the amount of $10,000.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional services
119-1996  11-21-1996  agreement with Ashland Main Street, Inc. for
                      administration of the ARC 302 grant.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional services
125-1996  11-21-1996  agreement with Woolpert Consultants for consulting
                      services for the Department of Planning and Community
                      Development.
7-1997    2-6-1997    Adopting the Operating Manual for the Micro Enterprise
                      Fund.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the
                      Community Action Referral Service for funding in the
25-1997   3-6-1997    amount of $25,000 for the set up and relocation of an
                      office to be paid from the community development block
                      grant funds.
                      Authorizing the submission of the 1998 Action Plan in the
55-1997   5-1-1997    sum of $860,000 for a community development block grant
                      to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the use of Central Park and the parade route
159-1997  11-20-1997  by Winter Wonderland and prohibiting commercial sales or
                      activities.
                      Authorizing the execution of a letter of agreement
                      accepting the proposal of Harry E. Homan regarding
163-1997  11-20-1997  construction of stairs and enclosures at the Kentucky
                      Highlands Museum in an amount not to exceed $8,600 to be
                      paid from CDBG funds.
22-1998   3-5-1998    Amending the description of the city s Enterprise Zone.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional service
24-1998   3-5-1998    agreement with Mayes, Sudderth and Etheredge, Inc. as
                      consultants for the downtown plan.
101-1998  11-19-1998  Authorizing use of Central Park and parade route by
                      Winter Wonderland and prohibiting commercial sales.
                      Authorizing execution of documents between Ashland
19-1999   3-4-1999    Community Development Agency Public Housing Authority and
                      Classic Bank for refinancing of property located at 1436
                      Greenup Avenue for Section 8 Housing Program.
                      Authorizing a contract with the Paramount Arts Center and
34-1999   4-15-1999   the Louis and Henry Group for design and construction
                      administration of an addition and renovation of the stage
                      house and annex connection.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Columbia Gas of Kentucky,
35-1999   4-15-1999   Inc. for relocation of gas service for the new stage
                      house addition at the Paramount Arts Center.
                      Authorizing an agreement with GTE South for the
36-1999   4-15-1999   relocation of telephone service for the new stage house
                      addition at the Paramount Arts Center.
37-1999   4-15-1999   Authorizing agreement with Heritage Green, LLC regarding
                      improvements in a redevelopment area.
                      Authorizing letter of understanding with Kentucky Power
45-1999   4-15-1999   Company for relocation of power lines and service for the
                      new stage house addition at the Paramount Arts Center.
                      Authorizing submission of amended community development
46-1999   5-6-1999    block grant 1998 action plan to Federal Dept. of Housing
                      and Urban Development (HUD).
                      Authorizing submission of 1999 action plan, $855,000, for
47-1999   5-6-1999    CDBG to U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development
                      (HUD).
49-2009   5-6-1999    Authorizing execution of memorandum of understanding with
                      Paramount Arts Center re Paramount Theater Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a letter to the State of
63-1999   6-3-1999    Kentucky stating that Woolpert Engineering will be
                      preparing the design for the relocation of the utilities
                      on the 13th Street project.
67-1999   6-3-1999    Amending Section 1, Ord. 129, 1987 amending Enterprise
                      Zone boundaries.
                      Authorizing amended interlocal agreement with Cities of
68-1999   6-3-1999    Russell and Catlettsburg and counties of Boyd and
                      Greenup.
82-1999   7-1-1999    Authorizing contract with ASL Excavating, Inc. for 35th
                      Street Chatteroi project.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Kentucky
96-1999   8-19-1999   Transportation Cabinet for repair of city-owned traffic
                      signals.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with KYOVA Electrical
97-1999   8-19-1999   Services for replacement of lights for a baseball diamond
                      to be paid from CDBG funds.
                      Authorizing the use of certain downtown streets by Poage
107-1999  9-1-1999    Landing Days and approving certain commercial sales and
                      activities
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Vetter Builders,
115-1999  10-21-1999  Incl. for complete construction of a the Star Project for
                      the Kentucky Highlands Museum to be paid from CDBG funds.
                      Authorizing execution of a letter to the State of
120-1999  10-21-1999  Kentucky stating that Quest Engineers will be preparing
                      the design for the relocation of utilities on the 29th
                      Street and Blackburn Avenue Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
126-1999  11-4-1999   with the Highlands Museum and Discovery Center, Inc.
                      regarding disbursement of CDBG funds.
                      Authorizing the use of Central Park and the parade route
127-1999  11-4-1999   by Winter Wonderland and prohibiting Commercial Sales or
                      activities.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with John D. Meyers
129-1999  11-18-1999  and associates PSC., for the design of a 29th Street Fire
                      Station.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with B & L
130-1999  11-18-1999  Contractors, Inc. for the 1999-2000 concrete improvement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
11-2000   2-17-2000   with the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet regarding the
                      fire station and right-of-way for the 29th Street
                      project.
                      Authorizing execution of a work order with Quest
22-2000   3-2-2000    Engineers for the planning of the Riverfront Development
                      project.
                      Authorizing execution of professional agreement with
34-2000   4-6-2000    Quest Engineers, Inc. to provide engineering services for
                      the phase II storm water action plan.
                      Authorizing submission of the 2000 action plan in the sum
56-2000   5-4-2000    of $867,000 for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
                      (HUD).
                      Adopting the PHA five-year plan (2000-2004) and one-year
57-2000   5-4-2000    plan (2000) to comply with section 511 of the Quality
                      Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Paramount Arts
83-2000   6-20-2000   Center and J & H Reinforcing and Structural Erectors,
                      Inc. regarding the new stage house addition project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with J & C
                      Contracting Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
92-2000   8-3-2000    materials, equipment and services for the excavation and
                      removal of materials and installation of drainage and
                      concrete work for the East Central Avenue Neighborhood
                      Linear Park.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 with Vetter
94-2000   8-3-2000    Builders, Inc. for a contract regarding the Kentucky
                      Highlands Museum Stairs project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Paramount Arts
108-2000  8-24-2000   Center and the Neighborgall Construction Company
                      regarding the new stage house addition project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 with ASL
115-2000  8-24-2000   Excavating Inc. for a contract regarding the Chatteroi
                      Street Reconstruction Project.
117-2000  8-24-2000   Adopting the FIVCO strategic area development program,
                      comprehensive economic development strategy update 2000.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with J & C
120-2000  9-21-2000   Contracting, Inc. for the purchase of all materials,
                      equipment and service for the basing and paving of the
                      new roadway in the East Central Neighborhood Linear Park.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 5 with ASL
134-2000  9-26-2000   Excavating, Inc. for a contract regarding the Chatteroi
                      Street Reconstruction Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
138-2000  9-26-2000   with the Paramount Arts Center, the Neighborgall
                      Construction Company and J & H Reinforcing and Structural
                      Erectors, Inc. regarding the state house addition.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Patton
139-2000  9-26-2000   Construction for the construction of a fire station at
                      29th and Beech Streets.
                      Accepting the proposal of J & C Contracting, Inc. in the
                      amount of $6,500 to provide material, labor and equipment
145-2000  10-19-2000  to install electrical conduit and underground junction
                      boxes for lighting along the interior portions of the
                      East Central Avenue Neighborhood Linear Park.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
160-2000  11-16-2000  October 23, 2000 with Patton Construction for a contract
                      dated September 27, 2000 regarding the 29th Street Fire
                      Station Construction Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Paramount Arts
166-2000  11-16-2000  Center and Law Engineering and Environmental Services,
                      Inc. regarding the new state house addition project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
171-2000  12-7-2000   October 10, 2000 with Neighborgall Construction Co. for a
                      contract dated September 4, 2000 regarding the Paramount
                      Arts Center Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a professional agreement with
173-2000  12-7-2000   Quest Engineers, Inc. to provide engineering services for
                      miscellaneous sewer collection system improvements.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 and No. 2
2-2001    1-4-2001    dated December 14, 2000 with J & C Contracting, Inc. for
                      a contract dated August 5, 2000 regarding the East
                      Central Avenue Neighborhood Linear Park Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
                      December 14, 2000 with J & C Contracting, Inc. for a
3-2001    1-4-2001    contract dated September 22, 2000 regarding the paving
                      for the East Central Avenue Neighborhood Linear Park
                      Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 dated
4-2001    1-4-2001    December 8, 2000 with Neighborgall Construction Co. for a
                      contract dated September 4, 2000 regarding the Paramount
                      Arts Center Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a professional agreement with
17-2001   2-1-2001    Quest Engineers, Inc., retaining Quest to provide
                      engineering services for the Riverfront Development
                      Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 dated
19-2001   2-15-2001   January 8, 2001 with J & C Contracting, Inc. for a
                      contract dated August 5, 2000 regarding the East Central
                      Avenue Neighborhood Linear Park Project.
                      Authorizing execution and submission of a Renaissance
20-2001   2-15-2001   Kentucky 2001 Direct Appropriation Proposal for
                      Riverfront Development.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Kentucky
25-2001   3-1-2001    Transportation Cabinet for repair of city owned traffic
                      signals from July 1, 2000 to July 1, 2001.
                      Authorizing execution of a professional agreement with
30-2001   3-15-2001   Quest Engineers, Inc. to provide engineering services for
                      the East Central Avenue Area storm water relief project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 dated
32-2001   3-15-2001   February 15, 2001, with Neighborgall Construction Co. for
                      a contract dated September 4, 2000 regarding the
                      Paramount Arts Center Project.
                      Amending the community development block grant
                      consolidated plan s year IV action plan by increasing the
33-2001   3-15-2001   Housing Rehabilitation line item by $200,000 to aid in
                      the reconstructing/rehabilitation of the Hillcrest &
                      Bruce Apartment Complexes.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
38-2001   4-5-2001    February 28, 2001 with Lawgibb Group for a contract dated
                      November 1, 2000 regarding the Paramount Arts Center
                      Project.
                      Adopting the PHA one-year plan (2001) to comply with
                      Section 511 of the Quality Housing and Work
51-2001   4-19-2001   Responsibility Act of 1998 and the ensuing HUD
                      requirements to be submitted to the U.S. Department of
                      Housing and Urban Development, Office of Public and
                      Indian Housing.
                      Authorizing execution of an amended interlocal agreement
61-2001   5-3-2001    with the cities of Catlettsburg and Russell and the
                      counties of Boyd and Greenup regarding the Enterprise
                      Zone.
                      Amending the boundaries of the enterprise zone and
62-2001   5-3-2001    authorizing the Mayor and city staff to take such actions
                      as may be required in applying for approval of such
                      expansion with the appropriate state authorities.
                      Authorizing submission of the 2001 action plan in the sum
68-2001   6-4-2001    of $876,000 for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
                      (HUD).
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 dated May
78-2001   6-21-2001   25, 2001, with Neighborgall Construction Co. for a
                      contract dated September 4, 2000 regarding the Paramount
                      Arts Center Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 dated May
79-2001   6-21-2001   14, 2001, with Patton Construction for a contract dated
                      September 27, 2000 regarding the 29th Street Fire Station
                      Construction Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with ASL Excavating,
                      Inc. for the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment
                      and service for the excavation and removal of materials
93-2001   6-28-2001   and installation of drainage and concrete work including
                      curb and gutter work, sidewalks and driveway tie-ins and
                      asphalt paving for the East Central Avenue Chatteroi
                      Street Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 dated July
114-2001  9-6-2001    18, 2001, with Lawgibb Group for a contract dated
                      November 1, 2000 regarding the Paramount Arts Center
                      Project.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Kentucky
130-2001  10-2-2001   Transportation Cabinet for Ashland Streetscape
                      Improvements.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Kentucky
139-2001  10-25-2001  Transportation Cabinet for Services to be provided for
                      the repair of city-owned traffic signals form July 1,
                      2001 to July 1, 2002.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 5 dated
142-2001  10-25-2001  September 19, 2001, with Neighborgall Construction Co.
                      for a contract dated September 4, 2000 regarding the
                      Paramount Arts Center Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 with ASL
144-2001  10-25-2001  Excavating Inc. for a contract dated June 29, 2001
                      regarding the Chatteroi St./Railroad Alley improvements.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
145-2001  10-25-2001  October 1, 2001 with J & C Contracting, Inc. for a
                      contract dated March 8, 2001 regarding the Central Park
                      restroom renovations.
                      Authorizing execution of a professional agreement with
155-2001  12-6-2001   Quest Engineers, Inc., retaining Quest to provide
                      engineering services for the Elks Club Dam Evaluation
                      Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 with ASL
160-2001  12-20-2001  Excavating Inc. for a contract dated June 29, 2001
                      regarding the Chatteroi St./Railroad Alley improvements.
                      Authorizing execution of a professional agreement with
28-2002   3-7-2002    Quest Engineers, Inc., retaining Quest to provide
                      Engineering Services for the Thompson Avenue sanitary
                      sewer project.
                      Adopting the 2002-2005 consolidated plan and the 2002
                      action plan to comply with regulations of the Department
80-2002   8-1-2002    of Housing and Urban Development applicable to activities
                      undertaken in whole or part with community development
                      block grant funds.
                      Adopting the PHA one-year plan (2002) to comply with
                      Section 511 of the Quality Housing and Work
85-2002   8-1-2002    Responsibility Act of 1998 and the ensuing Housing and
                      Urban Development requirements to be submitted to the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office
                      of Public and Indian Housing.
                      Authorizing the presiding Commissioner to execute an
                      agreement between the city and the Kentucky
91-2002   8-15-2002   Transportation Cabinet for services to be provided for
                      the repair of city-owned traffic signals from July 1,
                      2002, to July 1, 2003.
                      Authorizing the presiding Commissioner to execute a
                      contract between the city and Wilbur Smith Associates,
103-2002  9-19-2002   Inc. as consultants for the preparation and update of the
                      1994 comprehensive plan for the Department of Planning
                      and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an addendum to the
                      contract between the city and Wilbur Smith Associates,
36-2003   3-27-2003   Inc. as consultants for the preparation and update of the
                      Comprehensive Plan for the Department of Planning and
                      Community Development allowing for a traffic analysis for
                      the Ashland Town Center Mall.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
                      the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency
46-2003   4-3-2003    shelter grant program to be distributed to Pathways,
                      Inc., the Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor of
                      Northeastern Kentucky, Community Assistance Referral
                      Service and Salvation Army of Ashland.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2003/2004 grant
49-2003   4-17-2003   application in the amount of $478,294 to the Federal
                      Transit Administration on behalf of the Ashland Bus
                      System.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a highway safety grant
54-2003   5-1-2003    application to the Kentucky State Police, Highway Safety
                      Branch, for the Ashland Police Department for the period
                      October 1, 2003 through September 30, 2004.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
58-2003   5-15-2003   agreement with the Department for Local Government for an
                      appropriation of $10,000 to be used for operating
                      expenses for the Summer Motion Concerts.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
63-2003   6-5-2003    Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and
                      Construction granting additional responsibilities under
                      KRS 198B.060(5).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
66-2003   6-19-2003   with District Nine, Kentucky Transportation Cabinet,
                      regarding the National pollution discharge elimination
                      system (NPDES) storm water phase II program.
                      Adopting the PHA One-Year Plan (2003) to comply with
69-2003   6-19-2003   Section 511 of the Quality Housing and Work
                      Responsibility Act of 1998.
76-2003   6-20-2003   Amending the 2002-2003 consolidated plan as adopted by
                      Ord. 80-2002.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
88-2003   8-7-2003    Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for services to be
                      provided for the repair of city-owned traffic signals
                      from July 1, 2003 to July 1, 2004.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2003 action plan in
                      the sum of $1,141,000 for a community development block
89-2003   8-7-2003    grant to the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development (HUD), and to execute an agreement with HUD
                      to enable the city to undertake associated activities,
                      and repealing Ord. 75-2003.
99-2003   8-21-2003   Adopting the goals and objectives of the comprehensive
                      plan update.
102-2003  8-21-2003   Authorizing the forgiving of a loan to the Shelter of
                      Hope, Inc. as established by Ord. 57-1994.
                      Adopting the economic development incentive revolving
159-2003  12-18-2003  loan program and repealing Ords. 14-1994, 50-1994, and
                      86-1996.
                      Amending the community development block grant
30-2004   2-19-2004   consolidated plan s 2003 action plan as adopted by Ord.
                      89-2003.
                      Authorizing execution of interlocal agreement for co-
59-2004   5-13-2004   permitting to provide KPDES storm water discharge permit
                      services between city and Boyd County and City of
                      Catlettsburg.
73-2004   6-3-2004    Adopting Public Housing Authority, PHA one- year plan
                      (2004).
                      Executing an agreement between the city and C & L Realty
100-2004  7-1-2004    Company, LLC regarding an encroachment for the placement
                      of three dumpsters and a dumpster enclosure.
                      Executing an agreement between city and J & A Development
101-2004  7-1-2004    regarding an encroachment for the installation of a sign
                      at 2924 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Executing an agreement between city and David Payne
102-2004  7-1-2004    regarding an encroachment for a building addition at 2009
                      Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Executing an agreement between city and J.C. Williams,
146-2004  11-4-2004   Tri-state Pawn and Jewelry, regarding a parking
                      encroachment at 4250 Winchester Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Executing a grant award binder for a local law
150-2004  11-4-2004   enforcement block grant in the amount of $5,000 for the
                      Police Department.
                      Executing an agreement between city and John Christie
158-2004  12-2-2004   regarding an encroachment for the installation of a
                      freestanding sign at 1728 Front Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Executing an interlocal agreement between the city and
164-2004  12-16-2004  the City of Bowling Green relating to the development of
                      a manual in compliance with the Clean Water Act.
                      Executing an agreement between city and the Greater
165-2004  12-16-2004  Kentucky Corp. regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a landscaping buffer at 2819 Blackburn
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Execute an agreement between city and UK King s Daughters
166-2004  12-16-2004  regarding an encroachment for the construction of an
                      overhead walkway across 23rd Street on the city s right-
                      of-way.
                      Executing an agreement between city and David E. Williams
167-2004  12-16-2004  regarding an encroachment for the installation of
                      underground electric at 1806 Lexington Avenue on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Executing an agreement between city and Brenda Dudding
168-2004  12-16-2004  for the installation of a water line extension outside
                      city limits at 711 Little Garner Road.
                      Executing a contract between city and KYOVA Electrical
172-2004  12-21-2004  Services for supervision, labor and materials for
                      streetscape project in 1300 block of Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 12 with Adams
173-2004  12-21-2004  Robinson for a contract dated April 10, 2003 regarding
                      the Ashland water treatment plant improvements/phase II.
178-2004  12-21-2004  Accepting proposal of KZF Design, Inc. for $3,750 for
                      feasibility study for new police station.
179-2004  12-21-2004  Executing professional services agreement between city
                      and KZF Design, Inc. to provide waterfront master plan.
                      Executing contract between city and Service Pump & Supply
04-2005   2-3-2005    Co., Inc. for purchase and installation of two wastewater
                      pumps for the 37th Street pump station.
                      Executing contract between city and Southern Ohio
17-2005   2-10-2005   Trenching for installation of storm drain from 22nd
                      Street to 25th Street.
18-2005   2-10-2005   Accepting proposal of Quest Engineers, Inc. for $15,680
                      for engineering services for slip repair on Debord Hill.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 13 with Adams
19-2005   2-10-2005   Robinson for a contract dated April 10, 2003 regarding
                      the Ashland Water Treatment plant improvements/phase II.
                      Executing project development agreement between Urban
23-2005   2-17-2005   Renewal and Community Development Agency and Pendleton
                      Art Center regarding property located at 1537 and 1539
                      Winchester Avenue.
                      Executing agreement between city and Bill Hillard for
26-2005   3-10-2005   installation of water line extension outside city limits
                      at 2767 Ohio Street.
27-2005   3-10-2005   Accepting proposal of Quest Engineers, Inc. for $23,320
                      for wastewater treatment plant needs survey.
                      Accepting proposal of Quest Engineers, Inc. for $12,500
28-2005   3-10-2005   for engineering services for Ashland City Building fire
                      escape.
                      Executing agreement between city and Kentucky Power Co.
33-2005   3-17-2005   for maintenance and operation of city s street lighting
                      system.
                      Executing contract between city and Mi-De-Con, Inc. for
34-2005   3-17-2005   removal and replacement of all sidewalks in 1300 block of
                      Winchester Avenue as part of streetscape project.
                      Executing contract between city and Southern Ohio
35-2005   3-17-2005   Trenching & Excavating, Inc. for renovation of 26th
                      Street sewer pump station.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 14 with Adams
36-2005   3-17-2005   Robinson for a contract dated April 10, 2003 regarding
                      the Ashland water treatment plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing and executing an agreement with Jeff Mays for
44-2005   4-7-2005    the installation of a water line extension outside the
                      city limits at 901 Glendale and 1001 W. Forestdale.
                      Authorizing and executing an agreement with Ralston
48-2005   4-11-2005   Hennecke for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits in the Hennecke Subdivision on
                      Southland Drive.
                      Authorizing and executing an agreement between TLG
60-2005   5-5-2005    Development Co. Inc. GCC Ashland LLC, RLG Ashland LLC,
                      and the city regarding the development of the property
                      generally known as Melody Mountain project phase II.
61-2005   5-5-2005    Authorizing and executing an annual letter of commitment
                      for the Renaissance on Main/Main Street program.
77-2005   6-1-2005    Adopting a five year strategic plan for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and approving a change for a project dated
84-2005   6-2-2005    Feb. 11, 2005, authorized by Ord. 17-2005, regarding a
                      storm water drainage project from 22nd to 25th Street.
                      Authorizing and approving a change for a project dated
96-2005   6-3-2005    Feb. 11, 2005, authorized by Ord. 17-2005, regarding a
                      storm water drainage project from 22nd to 25th Street.
                      Authorizing and approving change order nos. 1, 2, and 3
                      dated July 28, 2005 between the city and KYOVA
112-2005  8-4-2005    Electrical, Inc. for a contract dated January 13, 2005
                      regarding the 1300 block of Winchester Avenue Streetscape
                      Project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute and submit
131-2005  9-1-2005    a Renaissance on Main grant application for streetscape
                      improvements in the amount of $150,000.
                      Authorizing and approving change orders nos. 4 and 5
                      dated August 29, 2005 between the city and KYOVA
132-2005  9-1-2005    Electrical, Inc. for a contract dated January 13, 2005
                      regarding the 1300 block of Winchester Avenue streetscape
                      project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated August
133-2005  9-1-2005    27, 2005, between the city and Mi-De-Con, Inc. for a
                      contract dated March 18, 2005 regarding the streetscape
                      project.
150-2005  10-4-2005   Adopting the five-year strategic plan for the Department
                      of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 dated
154-2005  10-20-2005  October 18, 2005, between the city and MI-DE-CON, Inc.
                      for a contract dated March 18, 2005 regarding the
                      streetscape project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 16 dated
162-2005  11-3-2005   August 22, 2005, between the city and Adams Robinson for
                      a contract dated April 10, 2003 regarding the Ashland
                      water treatment plant improvement/phase II.
                      Accepting ownership, maintenance and operations
                      responsibilities for certain portions of River Hill Drive
163-2005  11-3-2005   and West Central Avenue pursuant to the agreement between
                      the city and TLG Development Co., Inc., CGC Ashland LLC
                      and RLG Ashland LLC, regarding the development of parcels
                      of property generally known as Melody Mountain .
164-2005  11-3-2005   Authorizing and directing the installation of a sewer
                      main extension for the residents of Hampton Hills.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 dated
                      December 19, 2005, between the city and Mi-De-Con, Inc.
03-2006   1-19-2006   for the removal and replacement of sidewalks in the 1300
                      block of Winchester Avenue as part of the streetscape
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an engineering
04-2006   2-2-2006    services agreement between the city and KZF Designs to
                      provide engineering services on the riverfront project.
                      Amending the city s 2005 program year action plan to
08-2006   2-16-2006   include July 1, 2005, carryover funds of $887,466 into
                      the current project plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of task order no.
13-2006   2-16-2006   1 between the city and KZF Design regarding the
                      riverfront development project.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an annual
16-2006   2-16-2006   letter of commitment for the Renaissance on Main/Main
                      Street Program for the period of January 1, 2006, through
                      December 31, 2006.
29-2006   3-16-2006   Adopting the citizen participation plan for the city
                      community development programs.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution and submission of
                      an application in the amount of $1,000,000 to the
32-2006   3-16-2006   Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, Office of Transportation
                      Enhancement Programs, for the streetscape renovation
                      phase 3 project.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
36-2006   3-16-2006   between the city and KYOVA Electrical Services for the
                      supervision, labor and materials for the streetscape
                      project in the 1400 block of Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
                      between the city and Mi-De-Con, Inc. for all labor and
45-2006   4-20-2006   materials to remove and replace all sidewalks in the 1400
                      block of Winchester Avenue as part of the streetscape
                      project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
61-2006   5-18-2006   and Southern Ohio Trenching for the purchase of labor,
                      equipment and supervision to install wet wells and a
                      force main at Providence Hill.
                      Adopting the City Community Development Agency, Public
65-2006   5-18-2006   Housing Authority, PHA one-year plan (2006) for
                      submission to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development, Office of Public and Indian Housing.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a memorandum
68-2006   6-1-2006    of understanding with the Resident Association of Scope
                      Towers to provide fire safety training to the residents.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2007
71-2006   6-1-2006    grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the Ashland Bus System.
72-2006   6-1-2006    Supporting the revitalization of the Pollard area
                      neighborhood.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an application
74-2006   6-1-2006    to the National Tactical Officers Association for Ashland
                      Police Department training and equipment.
                      Authorizing the execution a memorandum of understanding
76-2006   6-22-2006   with the Kentucky State Police allowing the Ashland Fire
                      Department to operate on statewide mutual aid radio
                      frequencies.
                      Executing and directing the execution of an agreement
90-2006   7-20-2006   with the Transportation Cabinet regarding federal highway
                      administration funds for the Ashland riverfront project.
                      Authorizing and approving a change order for a contract
91-2006   7-20-2006   with Mi-De-Con, Inc. regarding the streetscape project as
                      authorized by Ord. 45-2006.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Pathways, Inc. regarding an
                      encroachment for the installation of the underground
98-2006   8-3-2006    fiber optic cable across the alley between 2162 Greenup
                      Avenue and 2165 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Perry Madden regarding an
99-2006   8-3-2006    encroachment for permanent banners at the Highlands
                      Museum and Discovery Center at 1620 Winchester Avenue on
                      the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing the submission of an application in the
100-2006  8-3-2006    amount of $5,500 to the Fivco Area Development District
                      for area development fund capital improvement project
                      monies for the Ashland Police Department.
                      Authorizing the submission of an application in the
101-2006  8-3-2006    amount of $5,000 for Duke Energy/Dow Chemical public
                      safety money for the Ashland Police Department.
110-2006  8-24-2006   Adopting a non-smoking zone within a 20-foot perimeter of
                      all UK King s Daughters buildings.
                      Accepting ownership, maintenance and operations
130-2006  9-21-2006   responsibilities for Clements Drive beginning at 6th
                      Street and extending southeasterly approximately 480
                      feet.
                      Authorizing a consulting agreement with Michael Gioulis
136-2006  10-12-2006  Historic Preservation Consultant, Inc. regarding the
                      renovation of facades in the Downtown Historic District
                      for the Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing a change order no. 2 between the city and Mi-
137-2006  10-12-2006  De-Con, Inc. for a contract regarding the streetscape
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a grant
                      application to the Kentucky Housing Corporation in the
138-2006  10-12-2006  amount of $375,000 for the home investment partnership
                      program for the Department of Planning and Community
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a grant
                      application in the amount of $2,840 to the Kentucky
139-2006  10-12-2006  League of Cities for the 2006-2007 safety and liability
                      grant for an in-car video system for the Police
                      Department.
                      Adopting the amended five-year consolidated plan for the
152-2006  11-16-2006  Department of Planning and Community Development in order
                      to add performance measures as required.
                      Adopting the 2006 amended action plan for the Department
153-2006  11-16-2006  of Planning and Community Development in order to add
                      performance measures as required.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 6, dated
160-2006  12-21-2006  November 1, 2006 between the city and KYOVA Electrical,
                      Inc. for a contract regarding the 1300 Block of
                      Winchester Avenue streetscape project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
164-2006  12-21-2006  agreement with Kentucky Data Link, Inc. regarding the
                      placement of fiber optic cables within and over the
                      rights-of-way of the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed with the Boyd
02-2007   1-4-2007    County Public Library District regarding property to be
                      used for the reading garden at the Boyd County Public
                      Library.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an annual
11-2007   2-15-2007   letter of commitment for the renaissance on Main/Main
                      Street program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a grant
27-2007   3-15-2007   application to Kentucky Housing Corporation under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute and submit
32-2007   3-27-2007   a renaissance on main grant application for the Parsons
                      building improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Mike Enyart and Sons, Inc. for the purchase of
                      all labor, material and equipment for all the excavation
36-2007   4-19-2007   and removal of all debris, all labor, equipment and
                      material for the installation of retaining walls, curbs,
                      curbwalks and driveway entrances along the north side of
                      the 300 block of Blackburn Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2007
37-2007   4-19-2007   action plan in the sum of $708,415 for a community
                      development block grant to the U.S. Department of Housing
                      and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
38-2007   4-19-2007   city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2007
                      street paving program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with GWS
42-2007   5-3-2007    Unlimited, Inc. for the concrete improvement program for
                      the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2008
55-2007   5-22-2007   grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the bus system.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated May
56-2007   5-29-2007   22, 2007 between the city and Reynolds Enterprises for a
                      contract dated March 16, 2007 regarding roof replacements
                      in the Pollard Mills area.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute 2007
57-2007   5-29-2007   Kentucky Recycling Grant Program agreement through the
                      environmental and public protection cabinet.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated April
                      27, 2007 and change order no. 2 dated June 1, 2007
62-2007   6-26-2007   between the city and home maintenance and remodeling for
                      a contract dated March 16, 2007 the Pollard Mills Housing
                      Rehabilitation.
                      Authorizing and approving change order nos. 1 and 2 dated
                      June 1, 2007 between the city and March Construction Co.
63-2007   6-26-2007   for a contract dated July 21, 2006 regarding the
                      construction of a bus storage building at 4130 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
69-2007   6-26-2007   agreement between the city and Lighting Properties LLC
                      regarding a sign encroachment at 1600 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute and
70-2007   6-29-2007   agreement between the city and AK Steel Corporation
                      regarding the construction of a sanitary sewer line.
                      Authorizing and approving change order nos. 3 and 4 dated
88-2007   7-23-2007   June 21, 2007 between the city and Home Maintenance &
                      Remodeling for a contract dated March 16, 2007 regarding
                      the Pollard Mills Housing Rehabilitation.
                      Adopting the Streamlined PHA five-year plan (2005-2009)
                      and one-year plan (2007) to comply with Section 511 of
91-2007   7-23-2007   the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act and the
                      ensuing HUD requirements to be submitted to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of
                      Public and Indian Housing.
97-2007   8-16-2007   Adopting the 2006 amended action plan for the Department
                      of Planning and Community Development.
98-2007   8-16-2007   Adopting the 2007 amended action plan for the Department
                      of Planning and Community Development.
140-2007  11-1-2007   Adopting an amendment to the 2007 action plan for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
37-2008   4-3-2008    with GWS Unlimited, Inc. for the concrete improvement
                      program for the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
38-2008   4-3-2008    with GWS Unlimited, Inc. for one-year labor and material
                      contract for concrete and asphalt repair work.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
39-2008   4-3-2008    with Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2008
                      street paving program.
                      Authorizing and directing the submission of the 2008
43-2008   4-17-2008   action plan in the sum of $678,385 for a community
                      development block grant to the U.S. Department of HUD.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
48-2008   5-15-2008   with L&D Construction for phase I of the renovations to
                      the Central Park baseball field.
                      Adopting streamlined PHA five-year plan (2005-2009) and
56-2008   6-5-2008    one-year plan (2008) to comply with Section 511 of the
                      Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act and HUD
                      requirements.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
97-2008   9-18-2008   September 8, 2008, between the city and Frontier Housing,
                      Inc. for a contract dated December 21, 2006 regarding the
                      Pollard Mills District Focus Program Housing Project.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and John Wolhoy
98-2008   9-18-2008   regarding an encroachment of the installation of a
                      freestanding sign at 2550 Carter Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Amending Ord. 100-2006, adopting a non- smoking zone
114-2008  12-4-2008   within a 20-foot perimeter of all UK King s Daughters
                      buildings located within the city to include certain
                      identified rights-of-way.
                      Amending Ord. 138-2006, authorizing and directing the
6-2009    2-19-2009   Mayor to execute an amendment to the Kentucky Housing
                      Corporation Home Investment Partnership.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky and the City Police Department regarding excess
28-2009   3-19-2009   Department of Defense personal property transferred
                      pursuant to the National Defense Authorization Act of
                      1997.
                      Adopting the 2008 amended CDBG action plan, adopted by
66-2009   6-3-2009    Ord. 43, 2008 and previously amended by Ord. 2, 2009, for
                      the Department of Planning and Community Development for
                      additional CDBG-R funding.
87-2009   6-29-2009   Authorizing Mayor to submit 2010 grant application to
                      Federal Transit Administration on behalf of bus system.
                      Authorizing Mayor to submit American recovery and
88-2009   6-29-2009   reinvestment grant application to Federal Transit
                      Administration on behalf of bus system.
                      Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement with Kentucky
94-2009   6-30-2009   Transportation Cabinet for services to be provided for
                      repair of city owned traffic signals.
                      Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement with Ashland
                      Hospital Corporation regarding encroachment for
95-2009   6-30-2009   installation of parking lot, drainage, curbing, entrances
                      and landscaping at Block 518 Carter Avenue which involves
                      using portions of city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement with Van Art
96-2009   6-30-2009   Properties regarding encroachment for parking at 9th
                      Street and Central Avenue which involves using a portion
                      of city s right-of-way.
                      Adopting 2009 amended action plan for Department of
98-2009   6-30-2009   Planning and Community Development, community development
                      block grant in order to increase emergency homeowner
                      rehab monies.
                      Authorizing Mayor to execute contract with Housing
                      Authority of Ashland and Newtech Systems, Inc. for
100-2009  8-6-2009    purchase of equipment, labor and materials to install a
                      video security system for Housing Authority of Ashland
                      Scope Towers Building II located at 3101 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing Mayor to execute task order #8 in contract
                      with Strand Associates, Inc. regarding combined sewer
105-2009  8-6-2009    overflow (CSO) long-term control plan (LTCP) and consent
                      judgment assistance in accordance with guidelines
                      published by USEPA.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Dr.
117-2009  9-17-2009   Howard Feinberg regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of parking and landscaping at 2930 Carter
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Gene
118-2009  9-17-2009   A. and Pauletta Wilson regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign and parking at 2303 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 with
121-2009  9-17-2009   Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for contract
                      regarding Putnam Street sanitary sewer improvements.
                      Authorizing change order no. 1 with Trace Creek
122-2009  9-17-2009   Construction, Inc. for contract regarding construction of
                      a police station at 17th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
123-2009  9-17-2009   Ashland Cemetery Company regarding transfer of assets to
                      the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a conditional commitment
126-2009  9-17-2009   letter regarding the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority,
                      American Recovery and Reinvestment Act loan for the
                      Putnam Street sanitary sewer replacement project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
134-2009  10-1-2009   Liberty Holding Group regarding an encroachment for
                      parking to use a temporary dock at 1539 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
135-2009  10-1-2009   Ashland Credit Union regarding an encroachment for
                      parking and landscaping at 1300 Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with KYOVA
                      Electric, Inc. to provide labor, materials and equipment
136-2009  10-1-2009   to install underground electrical service for new police
                      station, City Hall and Jesse Stuart Foundation for the
                      Department of Public Works.
140-2009  10-15-2009  Authorizing change order no. 1 with Smith Contractors for
                      contract regarding Riverfront Project - phase I.
141-2009  10-15-2009  Authorizing change order no. 2 with Smith Contractors for
                      contract regarding Riverfront Project - phase I.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
142-2009  10-15-2009  Ashland Apartments LLC regarding Sear s Building located
                      on Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing change order no. 2 with Southern Ohio
143-2009  10-15-2009  Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for contract regarding
                      Putnam Street sanitary sewer improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Mark
                      Morris Contracting for labor and materials for
144-2009  10-15-2009  miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair work for
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities Divisions of
                      Wastewater Collection and Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contracting services
145-2009  10-15-2009  agreement with Kentucky Power Company for electrical
                      contracting services.
146-2009  10-15-2009  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
                      Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with BLK
148-2009  11-5-2009   Construction LLC for concrete improvement program for
                      Department of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Branham
                      Construction Co. for labor, material and equipment for
149-2009  11-5-2009   excavation and removal of all debris, installation of
                      retaining walls, steps, curbs, curbwalks and driveway
                      entrances along north side of Blackburn Avenue from
                      Sanders to 6th Street.
152-2009  11-5-2009   Authorizing change order no. 3 with Smith Contractors for
                      contract regarding Riverfront Project - phase I.
                      Authorizing change order no. 3 with Southern Ohio
153-2009  11-19-2009  Trenching and Excavating, Inc for contract regarding
                      Putnam Street sanitary sewer improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Green
154-2009  11-19-2009  Valley Landfill for removal and disposition of sludge
                      from wastewater treatment plant and water treatment
                      plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Morton
155-2009  11-19-2009  International, Inc. for purchase of treated rock salt for
                      ice and snow control.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a client work order
156-2009  11-19-2009  agreement with HDR Engineering to provide engineering
                      services for phase II storm water management program -
                      second permit term.
157-2009  11-19-2009  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a HUD statutory
                      worksheet to receive approval for expenditure from HUD.
                      Authorizing change order no. 1 with Tech Coat, Inc. for
160-2009  11-19-2009  contract regarding the Water Plant filter media
                      replacement.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order 9 with Strand
161-2009  12-3-2009   Associates, Inc. regarding the combined sewer overflow
                      long-term control plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Housing
                      Authority of Ashland and Newtech Systems, Inc, for
162-2009  12-3-2009   equipment, labor and materials to install a video
                      security system for Housing Authority of Ashland Scope
                      Towers Building I located at 3101 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to contract
01-2010   1-12-2010   with Branham Construction Company regarding Pollard Area
                      infrastructure improvements.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 to contract
04-2010   1-21-2010   with Kentucky and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating,
                      Inc. regarding Putnam Street sewer improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an assistance agreement
05-2010   1-21-2010   with Kentucky Infrastructure Authority to provide loan
                      funds for wastewater system improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a client work order
09-2010   2-4-2010    agreement with HDR Engineering, Inc. for engineering
                      services for development of a hydraulic model for the
                      Ashland Water Distribution System.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 to contract
11-2010   2-11-2010   with Smith Contractors, Inc. for Riverfront Project
                      contract.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to contract
13-2010   2-11-2010   with KYOVA Electric, Inc. for underground electrical
                      conduit systems for the City Building and new police
                      station.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to contract
14-2010   2-11-2010   with Newtech Systems, Inc. for video security system for
                      Scope Towers - Building 1.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute and contract with CCTB,
26-2010   3-4-2010    Inc. for the purchase of labor, materials and equipment
                      for second floor restoration of historic freight depot.
29-2010   3-18-2010   Adopting the 2009 Amended community development block
                      grant (CDBG) action plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
                      the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency
34-2010   3-18-2010   shelter grant program to be distributed to Pathways,
                      Inc., the Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor of
                      Northeastern Kentucky, Community Assistance Referral
                      Service and Salvation Army of Ashland.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
51-2010   5-24-2010   city and KYOVA Electric, Inc. for a contract regarding
                      the underground electrical conduit systems for the city
                      building and new police station.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
52-2010   5-24-2010   for co-permitting to provide KPDES storm water discharge
                      permit services between the City of Ashland and the City
                      of Catlettsburg.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
73-2010   7-15-2010   city and CTB, Inc. for a contract regarding the second
                      floor restoration of the historic freight depot and
                      amending Ord. 26-2010.
97-2010   9-16-2010   Adopting the five-year strategic plan (2010-2014) for the
                      Department of Economic Development.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and CTB, Inc. for
98-2010   10-7-2010   the purchase of all labor and equipment to renovate the
                      first floor of the city building located at 1700 Greenup
                      Avenue for the Department of Public Works.
                      Authorizing a client work order agreement between the
104-2010  10-21-2010  city and HDR Engineering for engineering services for the
                      Williams Creek booster pump station.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Tri-state
                      Lawn Care, Inc. for the purchase of all labor and
                      materials to perform all work required for the Oliverio
107-2010  11-4-2010   Park Renovations and improvements to the major league
                      baseball field funded by the Department of Economic
                      Development through the Kentucky Department for Local
                      Government, Land and Water Conservation Fund.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
108-2010  11-4-2010   city and CTB, Inc., amending Ord. 26-2010, for a contract
                      regarding the second floor restoration of the Historic
                      Freight Depot.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Community
111-2010  11-4-2010   Trust Bank regarding an encroachment for the installation
                      of a projecting sign at 1544 Winchester Avenue over the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and the Ashland
                      Furnace Company, Inc. for the purchase and installation
112-2010  11-18-2010  of heat/air for the west end of the Historic Freight
                      Depot located at 99 15th Street for the Department of
                      Public Works.
                      Authorizing change order no. 1 between the city and Tri-
1-2011    1-6-2011    State Lawn Care, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Oliverio Park Baseball Field renovations.
                      Adopting the 2010 amended action plan for the Department
15-2011   2-3-2011    of Economic Development, community development block
                      grant.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city,
                      Shelter of Hope and Geoff Riffe for the purchase of labor
                      and materials to perform all work for converting
31-2011   3-17-2011   apartment into adaptable/handicap accessible apartment
                      funded by Department of Planning and Community
                      Development through HUD community development block grant
                      for 2010.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
32-2011   3-17-2011   City of Ashland and CTB for a contract regarding the
                      first floor renovation of the City Building.
                      Adopting the 2010 amended community development block
39-2011   3-17-2011   grant (CDBG) action plan for the Department of Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing a grant application to the Kentucky Housing
                      Corporation under the emergency shelter grant program to
41-2011   3-29-2011   be distributed to the Shelter of Hope, the Safe Harbor of
                      Northeastern Kentucky, Community Assistance and Referral
                      Service and the Salvation Army of Ashland.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
45-2011   4-19-2011   city and Corder Builders, Inc. for a contract regarding
                      construction of the dressing room at 2516 Carter Avenue
                      for Neighbors Helping Neighbors.
                      Authorizing the execution of task order 2011-03 between
52-2011   5-19-2011   the city and HDR Engineering, Inc. to update the 2008
                      water rate study not to exceed $13,500.
                      Authorizing the execution of task order 2011-04 between
53-2011   5-19-2011   the city and HDR Engineering Inc. to update the 2009
                      sewer rate study not to exceed $13,500.
                      Authorizing the execution of task order #11 between the
54-2011   5-19-2011   city and Strand Associates, Inc. regarding the combined
                      sewer overflow long term control plan for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing a full maintenance agreement between the city
55-2011   5-19-2011   and D-C Elevator Company, Inc. to provided full
                      maintenance service on the Ashland police station
                      elevator.
                      Authorizing a modification agreement between the city and
                      the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the 2009 Kentucky
58-2011   6-2-2011    Housing and Emergency Assistance reaching the Homeless
                      Grant Program (KY) Reaching the Homeless Grant Program
                      (KY Hearth) to be distributed to the Shelter of Hope and
                      Cares.
                      Authorizing a facility encroachment agreement between the
73-2011   6-16-2011   city and CSX Transportation, Inc. regarding the Roberts
                      Drive and Sixth Street Sewer Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
75-2011   7-21-2011   city and Geoff Riffe Construction for a contract
                      regarding the Shelter of Hope Adaptable/Handicap
                      Accessible Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
85-2011   8-4-2011    city and Clay Pipeline, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump station improvements.
                      Adopting the 2011 amended community development block
86-2011   8-4-2011    grant (CDBG) action plan for the Department of Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
94-2011   8-18-2011   between the city and Mark and Kelly Hanni regarding an
                      encroachment for the installation of a sign at 508 16th
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
95-2011   8-18-2011   city and Fields Excavating, Inc. for a contract regarding
                      the Williams Creek Booster Station.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
                      #13 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
3-2012    1-19-2012   regarding the proposed expansion of the wastewater
                      treatment plant to 40 million gallons per day for peak
                      wet weather flows in an amount not to exceed $40,000 for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
4-2012    1-19-2012   city and AU Construction, LLC for a contract regarding
                      the safe harbor kitchen and dining room renovation.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 5 between the
27-2012   4-19-2012   city and Clay Pipeline, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Roberts Drive and 6th Street Pump Station Improvements
                      (Contract 2-2010).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2012
                      action plan in the sum of $514,405 for a community
                      development block grant to the U.S. Department of Housing
                      and Urban Development (HUD), and upon acceptance of the
29-2012   5-3-2012    application from HUD, to execute on behalf of the city,
                      an agreement with the U.S. Department of Housing and
                      Urban Development to enable the city to undertake these
                      activities and/or any and all documents associated with
                      the grant submittal.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Vida Loca Salon and Spa,
33-2012   5-17-2012   Inc. regarding an encroachment for the installation of a
                      sign, parking and landscaping at 1426 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
34-2012   5-17-2012   city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the Roberts Drive and 6th Street Pump
                      Station Improvements (Contract 1-2010).
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
35-2012   5-17-2012   city and CTB, Inc. for a contract regarding 1525
                      Winchester Avenue, former Nobil Shoes.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with F. Squared Investments, LLC regarding an
66-2012   9-20-2012   encroachment for landscaping and parking in the 2600 and
                      2700 blocks of Carter Avenue and in Railroad Alley on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
74-2012   10-18-2012  agreement with Members Choice Credit Union regarding an
                      encroachment for a sign, parking and landscaping at 1409/
                      1413 Central Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
75-2012   10-18-2012  agreement with the Housing Authority of Ashland regarding
                      an encroachment for parking and landscaping at 32nd
                      Street and Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
83-2012   11-15-2012  agreement with Lumos Network regarding an encroachment
                      for the installation of underground inner-ducts on the
                      city s rights-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with UK King s Daughters regarding an
2-2013    1-3-2013    encroachment for the installation of a pharmacy kiosk and
                      landscaping on Bath Avenue between 23rd and 24th Streets
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
3-2013    1-3-2013    agreement with JR Realty, Inc. (Don Hall GM Supercenter)
                      regarding an encroachment for a canopy, concrete walk and
                      ramp at 101 18th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
4-2013    1-3-2013    agreement with Betty Hall (Don Hall GM Supercenter)
                      regarding an encroachment for an entry tower on the 18th
                      Street side of the building on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
5-2013    1-3-2013    #15 with Strand Associates, Inc. to provide an annual
                      combined sewer overflow report for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a facility
15-2013   2-7-2013    encroachment agreement with CSX Transportation regarding
                      the 37th Street sewer improvement project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a highway
17-2013   2-7-2013    safety grant application to the Kentucky Transportation
                      Cabinet for 10-1-2013 through 9-30-2014.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
35-2013   3-21-2013   agreement with the Ashland Credit Union regarding an
                      encroachment for a sign at 1300 Central Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
38-2013   3-21-2013   Adopting the 2012 program year amendment CDBG action plan
                      for the Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Doll
39-2013   4-18-2013   Layman, LTD for the 37th Street pump station improvement
                      project (contract #1) for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Mike
40-2013   4-18-2013   Enyart & Sons, Inc. for the 37th Street pump station
                      improvement project (contract #2) for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC to furnish all labor and
41-2013   4-18-2013   materials for a community development block grant
                      rehabilitation project at 2408 Adams Avenue for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2013
                      action plan for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
44-2013   5-2-2013    (HUD), and upon acceptance of the application from HUD,
                      to execute an agreement with HUD to enable the city to
                      undertake these activities and/or any and all documents
                      associated with the grant submittal.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the milling and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material on 6th Street
66-2013   6-27-2013   between West Central and Ferguson Road, funded in part by
                      the Department of Planning and Community Development
                      through a HUD community development block grant for
                      program year 2013.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for the placement and
                      replacement of curbs, curbwalks, detectable warning pads,
67-2013   6-27-2013   retaining walls, storm inlets and driveway entrances
                      along 6th Street, Carter Avenue, Lexington Avenue and
                      29th Street, funded in part by the Department of Planning
                      and Community Development through a HUD community
                      development block grant for program year 2012.
                      Authorizing and approving change orders nos. 1 and 2
                      dated June 10, 2013, with Womack Excavating, LLC for a
68-2013   6-27-2013   contract dated April 19, 2013 regarding the community
                      development block grant homeowner rehabilitation project
                      at 2408 Adams Avenue, for the Department of Planning and
                      Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
74-2013   6-27-2013   agreement with Lumos Network regarding an encroachment
                      for the installation of underground conduit on the city s
                      rights-of-way on Pierce Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
76-2013   8-8-2013    with Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc. for all labor, materials
                      and equipment for riverfront parking lot project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc. for all labor and
80-2013   8-22-2013   equipment for the installation of concrete sidewalks on
                      the south side of Winchester Avenue for the 1700 block
                      streetscape project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 6 with Clay
87-2013   9-26-2013   Pipeline, Inc. for a contract regarding the Roberts Drive
                      and 6th Street pump station improvements (Contract 2-
                      2010).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Gibco Home Builders, Inc. for labor and materials
88-2013   9-26-2013   for a community development block grant homeowner
                      rehabilitation project at 2928 Bath Avenue for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
89-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with the Ashland Child Development Center,
                      Inc., the subrecipient of $2,000 from the 2013 program
                      year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
90-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $12,000 from the 2013 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
91-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $15,000 from the 2013 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
92-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
                      Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $38,000 from the 2013
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
93-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $5,000 from the 2013 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
94-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $1,500 from the 2013 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
95-2013   9-26-2013   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $3,284 from the 2013 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Southern
                      Ohio Trenching & Excavating for labor, equipment and
101-2013  10-2-2013   materials for improvements to the 39th Street sewer
                      system at Gartrell Street for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Wastewater
                      collection.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Marshall Steen regarding an
39-2014   5-8-2014    encroachment for the installation of a projecting sign at
                      1510 Winchester Avenue over the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 (Proposal
                      #17002) between the city and Doll Layman, Ltd., for a
46-2014   5-22-2014   contract regarding the 37th Street Pump Station
                      Improvement Project (Contract #1) for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
59-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $13,000 from the 2014 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
60-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with the Ashland Child Development Center,
                      Inc., the subrecipient of $3,000 from the 2014 program
                      year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
61-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc.,
                      Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $13,000 from
                      the 2014 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
62-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
                      Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $34,000 from the 2014
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
63-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $5,000 from the 2014 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
64-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $5,000 from the 2014 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
65-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $5,000 from the 2014 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
66-2014   6-30-2014   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $3,000 from the 2014 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Community Trust Bank, Inc.
79-2014   8-28-2014   regarding an encroachment for the installation of an
                      awning at 1544 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
82-2014   8-28-2014   2014-01 between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc.
                      regarding the air backwash system design and construction
                      services not to exceed $59,035.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
                      agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., increasing funding
96-2014   12-11-2014  from $3,000 to $5,000 from the 2014 program year
                      community development block grant originally adopted by
                      Ord. 66-2014.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
8-2015    1-8-2015    #18 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
                      regarding the annual combined sewer overflow report for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and City National Bank of West
12-2015   1-22-2015   Virginia regarding an encroachment for a sign at the
                      corner of Carter Avenue and 17th Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a utility
36-2015   4-9-2015    relocation agreement between the Kentucky Transportation
                      Cabinet, Department of Highways, and the city for the
                      widening of U.S. 23 at 12th Street in Catlettsburg.
42-2015   5-14-2015   Adopting the 2015-2019 City of Ashland community
                      development block grant (CDBG) consolidated plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
44-2015   5-28-2015   city and Building Crafts, Inc. for the water treatment
                      plant air backwash system for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
45-2015   5-28-2015   with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for the concrete
                      improvement program for the city, Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the
46-2015   5-28-2015   placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the 2015 street paving program for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
65-2015   6-26-2015   agreement between the city and Thomas L. Klein regarding
                      an encroachment for the installation of a fence at 2041
                      Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a utility
                      relocation keep cost agreement between the Kentucky
67-2015   6-26-2015   Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways, and the
                      city for the widening of U.S. 23 at 12th Street in
                      Catlettsburg.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
71-2015   6-26-2015   agreement between the city and Ashland City Police
                      members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Members Choice Credit
72-2015   8-13-2015   Union regarding an encroachment for a sign at the corner
                      of Central Avenue and 15th Street on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
74-2015   8-13-2015   agreement with the Ashland Child Development Center, Inc,
                      the subrecipient of $7,100 from the 2015 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
75-2015   8-13-2015   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $12,000 from the 2015 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
78-2015   8-13-2015   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $7,100 from the 2015 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional engineering services agreement between the
                      city and En Engineering to provide professional services
81-2015   8-13-2015   for the design of the 31st street drainage improvement
                      project for the Department of Planning and Community
                      Development to be paid from community development block
                      grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
83-2015   8-27-2015   agreement between the city and B&B Holdings LLC regarding
                      an encroachment for a sign at 2200 Winchester Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
84-2015   8-27-2015   2015-01 between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc.,
                      regarding the performance of a sewer and water rate study
                      not to exceed $32,500.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute required
89-2015   8-31-2015   documentation regarding the disbursement of coal
                      severance funds in the amount of $10,000 to the Poage
                      Landing Days Festival.
                      Authorizing the summary of work by Building Crafts, Inc.
                      in their contract adopted by Ord. 44-2015, be amended to
95-2015   9-24-2015   include the replacement of various underdrains regrading
                      the water treatment plant air backwash system for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city, King s Daughters and Sons Home and Guys
96-2015   10-8-2015   Floor Covering, LLC for the King s Daughters and Sons
                      Home mobility improvement project phase II for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development to be
                      paid from community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc.,
97-2015   10-8-2015   Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $17,500 from
                      the 2015 program year community development block grant
                      and repealing Ord. 76-2015.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
98-2015   10-8-2015   Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $30,000 from the 2015
                      program year community development block grant and
                      repealing Ord. 77-2015.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
99-2015   10-8-2015   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc, the subrecipient of
                      $15,000 from the 2015 program year community development
                      block grant and repealing Ord. 80-2015.
                      Adopting amendment 4 for city employees and amendment 3
100-2015  10-8-2015   for the Fire Department Union for the city medical care
                      plan and summary plan adopted by Ord. 46-2012.
                      Authorizing the submission of a highway safety grant
17-2016   2-12-2016   application to the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for
                      10-1-2016 through 9-30-2017.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between Ashland
                      Child Development Center and Morris Contracting for all
22-2016   2-12-2016   labor and materials for the handicap accessibility
                      improvements project for the Department of Planning and
                      Community Development, funded in part by $43,904.50 from
                      the 2015 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 96-2015, with Guy s Floor
23-2016   2-12-2016   Covering, LLC, to add $3,250 to the King s Daughters and
                      Sons Home rehabilitation project (phase II) for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 to the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 96-2015, with Guy s Floor
26-2016   2-26-2016   Covering, LLC, to add $3,540 to the King s Daughters and
                      Sons Home rehabilitation project (phase II) for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Adopting the amended five-year consolidated plan for the
29-2016   2-26-2016   Department of Planning and Community Development in order
                      to add a minority business loan project to the 2015
                      program year action plan.
                      Authorizing the submission of the FY 2016 grant
49-2016   4-14-2016   application to the Federal Transit Administration on
                      behalf of the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing change order no. 2 to the contract with
                      Morris Contracting regarding the Ashland Child
55-2016   4-27-2016   Development Center handicap accessibility improvement
                      project for the Department of Planning and Community
                      Development.
                      Authorizing submission of the 2016-2017 action plan for a
56-2016   4-27-2016   community development block grant to the U.S. Department
                      of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
                      Accepting the proposal of Womack Excavating, LLC in the
59-2016   5-4-2016    amount of $17,999 for the demolition of the existing
                      structure at the corner of Mill Street and 28th Street
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Accepting the proposal of Commonwealth Economics
                      Partners, LLC to provide consulting services to the city
65-2016   5-18-2016   for the proposed downtown redevelopment project as it
                      relates to both the state tax increment financing (TIF)
                      and tourism development act (TDA).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
84-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $1,000 from the 2016 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
85-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $9,000 from the 2016 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
86-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $11,000 from the 2016 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
87-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
                      Inc., the subrecipient of $49,000 from the 2016 program
                      year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
88-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Ashland Child Development Center, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $9,000 from the 2016 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
89-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $10,000 from the 2016 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
90-2016   8-4-2016    agreement with Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc.,
                      Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $14,000 from
                      the 2016 program year community development block grant.
109-2016  9-22-2016   Adopting the Ashland E-nnovation Broadband Strategic
                      Plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a highway
                      safety grant application to the Kentucky Transportation
7-2017    1-5-2017    Cabinet, Office of Highway Safety, for the Ashland Police
                      Department for the period October 1, 2017 through
                      September 30, 2018.
                      Adopting the Housing Choice Voucher Program 2017 annual
28-2017   3-9-2017    and administrative plan for the city, Department of
                      Community and Economic Development, Division of Assisted
                      Housing (Section 8).
                      Establishing a development area for economic development
45-2017   6-8-2017    purposes within the city, to be known as the Ashland
                      Plaza Development Area.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
48-2017   6-9-2017    city and Danny Sullivan Excavating, LLC for a contract
                      regarding the 39th Street sewer project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
54-2017   6-27-2017   with Tribute Contracting & Consultants, LLC for the
                      concrete improvement program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
57-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc, the subrecipient of
                      $8,500 from the 2017 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
58-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc,
                      the subrecipient of $8,500 from the 2017 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
59-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $3,500 from the 2017 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
60-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
                      Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $48,000 from the 2017
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
61-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc,
                      Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $14,000 from
                      the 2017 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
62-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $8,500 from the 2017 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
63-2017   6-27-2017   agreement with the Ashland Child Development Center,
                      Inc., the subrecipient of $8,000 from the 2017 program
                      year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
66-2017   6-27-2017   city and Distel Construction, Inc. for a contract
                      regarding the Mill Street building project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the master
                      development agreement between the city and the County of
71-2017   7-5-2017    Boyd regarding the Ashland Plaza Development Area in
                      order to facilitate the design, financing, development
                      and construction of the development area and the project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2017-
72-2017   7-27-2017   2018 action plan to the Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development for a community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      contract, between the city and Bobby Jack Faulkner &
74-2017   8-10-2017   Company, Inc., for a homeowner rehabilitation project at
                      3317 Central Avenue, to be paid for with community
                      development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2017
79-2017   8-10-2017   grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      for the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      memorandum of understanding, between the city and the
88-2017   9-14-2017   Kentucky Finance and Administration Cabinet, regarding
                      encroachment upon city rights-of-way for the construction
                      of an open-access, fiber-optic network (the Kentucky
                      Wired Network).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the revised
94-2017   9-14-2017   2017-2018 action plan to the Department of Housing and
                      Urban Development for a community development block
                      grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      contract, between the city, the Ashland Furnace Co. and
97-2017   9-28-2017   the Ashland Child Development Center, for the purchase
                      and installation of an HVAC system at 1526 and 1538
                      Central Avenue through a community development block
                      grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
104-2017  10-27-2017  agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
                      Inc. (CARES).
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Commonwealth Economics Partners, LLC which
109-2017  11-9-2017   accepted the proposed downtown redevelopment project as
                      it relates to both the state tax increment financing
                      (TIF) and tourism development act (TDA).
                      Authorizing execution of grant agreement with WB
1-2018    1-11-2018   Hospitality, LLC with respect to acquisition,
                      construction, and financing of the Ashland Plaza Hotel
                      redevelopment project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 with Tri-
9-2018    1-11-2018   State Construction & Enterprise LLC for new water
                      distribution and wastewater collection facility.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Morris Contracting
15-2018   1-25-2018   Inc. for the Debord Terrace concrete and handrail
                      project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 with Ashland
16-2018   1-25-2018   Furnace Co., Inc. and Ashland Child Development Center
                      for installation of an HVAC system at 1526 and 1538
                      Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with Safe
19-2018   2-8-2018    Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $8,500 from the 2017 program year community development
                      block grant funds.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with Hillcrest
20-2018   2-8-2018    Bruce Mission, the subrecipient of $3,500 from the 2017
                      program year community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with Community
21-2018   2-8-2018    Assistance Referral Service, Inc. (CARES), the
                      subrecipient of $28,000 of 2017 program year community
                      development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with Ashland
22-2018   2-8-2018    Community Kitchen, Inc., the subrecipient of $8,500 of
                      2017 program year community development block grant
                      funds.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with Shelter
23-2018   2-8-2018    of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of $8,500 of 2017 program
                      year community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with Boyd
24-2018   2-8-2018    County Council on Aging, Inc., Ashland Senior Center, the
                      subrecipient of $14,000 of 2017 program year community
                      development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing execution of amended agreement with the
25-2018   2-8-2018    Ashland Child Development Center, Inc., the subrecipient
                      of $8,000 of 2017 program year community development
                      block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 with
33-2018   2-9-2018    Commonwealth Economic Partners, LLC regarding accepted
                      proposal for downtown development project as it relates
                      to both TIF and TDA.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Kentucky
34-2018   2-9-2018    Transportation Cabinet for encroachment permit for
                      decorative traffic signal at the intersection of U.S. 23
                      and 12th Street.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 with
53-2018   3-22-2018   Engineering Associates, PSC regarding proposal for new
                      water distribution and sewer maintenance facilities at
                      Mill Street and 28th Street.
                      Authorizing amendment to agreement with Kentucky
54-2018   3-22-2018   Transportation Cabinet for the Ashland Safe Routes to
                      School federal project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 with Morris
56-2018   3-22-2018   Contracting regarding the Debord Terrace concrete and
                      handrail project.
                      Authorizing a change order between the city and Tribute
62-2018   4-21-2018   Contracting and Construction, LLC for the 29th Street
                      storm water separation project.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with A & J
64-2018   4-12-2018   Properties for the installation of a water line
                      extension.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Mountain
67-2018   4-26-2018   Enterprises, Inc., for the placement and replacement of
                      asphalt material for the 2018 street paving program.
                      Authorizing a contract with GRW Engineers, Inc., to
70-2018   4-26-2018   provide a water treatment plant SCADA and field
                      instrumentation needs assessment.
                      Authorizing a change order between the city and Tri-State
                      Construction & Enterprise LLC, increasing the contract
75-2018   5-10-2018   amount and extending the completion date for the city s
                      new water distribution and wastewater collection
                      facility.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a three state multi-
                      agency memorandum of understanding for the planning,
85-2018   5-21-2018   coordination and funding procedures among KYOVA
                      Interstate Planning Agencies on behalf of the Ashland Bus
                      System.
86-2018   5-21-2018   Authorizing a change order for a contract regarding the
                      Louisa Street water main project.
                      Authorizing a change order for the contract with Tribute
91-2018   6-14-2018   Contracting and Construction LLC regarding the 29th
                      Street storm water separation project.
                      Authorizing the submission of the 2018 action plan for a
93-2018   6-14-2018   community development block grant to the U.S. Department
                      of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Adopting the Title VI program - civil rights assurance
117-2018  7-26-2018   for the Ashland Bus System; repealing Ord. 89-2009 and
                      Ord. 89-2014.
                      Authorizing the submission of the FY 2018 grant
129-2018  8-23-2018   application to the Federal Transit Administration for the
                      Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing the submission of an amended 2018 action plan
149-2018  10-25-2018  to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for a
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a grant agreement
177-2018  12-14-2018  between the city and WB Hospitality, LLC with respect to
                      the acquisition, construction and financing of the Hotel
                      Redevelopment Project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order 2019-02
1-2019    1-10-2019   between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc., regarding the
                      phase 2 storm water MS4 compliance report in the amount
                      of $15,080.
                      Approving change order no. 3 between the city and
2-2019    1-10-2019   Engineering Associates, PSC, regarding proposals for
                      drafting and design work for water distribution and sewer
                      maintenance facilities.
                      Approving a change order between the city and Tri-State
5-2019    1-24-2019   Construction, increasing the contact amount and extending
                      the contract for the installation of a fire alarm system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order #23 between
16-2019   2-28-2019   the city and Strand Associates for the 2018 annual
                      combined sewer overflow reports for the Department of
                      Public Services and Utility Operations.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the FY 2019 grant
63-2019   5-9-2019    application to the Federal Transit Administration on
                      behalf of the Ashland Bus System for operating costs and
                      preventative maintenance.
64-2019   5-9-2019    Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2019 action plan for
                      a community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
109, 2019 8-8-2019    year 2019 amended action plan for a community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
116, 2019 8-22-2019   amendment to the grant agreement between the city and WB
                      Hospitality, LLC, regarding the acquisition, construction
                      and financing of the hotel redevelopment project.
                      Authorizing and the directing the Mayor to submit the
                      city s community development block grant 2018
125, 2019 9-12-2019   consolidated annual performance and evaluation report
                      (CAPER) for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
149, 2019 11-15-2019  year 2019 amended action plan for a community development
                      block grant.
                      Approving a minority loan to Ashland Petro, Inc., to be
151, 2019 11-15-2019  paid from the 2019 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
33, 2020  4-9-2020    year 2019 amended action plan for a community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing the submittal of the analysis of impediments
34, 2020  4-9-2020    to fair housing in order for continued CDBG and HCV
                      funding.
                      Adopting the public housing agency (PHA) five- year plan
35, 2020  4-9-2020    to comply with Section 511 of the Quality Housing and
                      Work Responsibility Act and the ensuing HUD requirements.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 in the
39, 2020  4-9-2020    amount of $11,890.59 between the city and Womack
                      Excavating regarding the community center.
                      Authorizing and approving change order Nos. 1 and 2
40, 2020  4-9-2020    between the city and Bristlecone Ventures regarding the
                      community center project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
45, 2020  4-23-2020   year 2019 amended action plan for a community development
                      block grant.
46, 2020  4-23-2020   Adopting the 2020 community development block grant
                      citizen participation plan.
                      Adopting the 2020-2024 City of Ashland community
47, 2020  4-23-2020   development block grant consolidated plan and the 2020
                      annual plan.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
50, 2020  5-14-2020   city and GRW Engineers, Inc., regarding their contract to
                      provide engineering services for the Pollard Mills
                      drainage improvement.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
51, 2020  5-14-2020   city and Frederick and May Construction Co., Inc.,
                      regarding their contract to provide engineering services
                      for the Pollard Mills drainage improvement.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
52, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Ashland Child Development Center, the
                      subrecipient of $5,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
53, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, the
                      subrecipient of $21,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
54, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of
                      $11,000 from the 2019 program year community development
                      block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
55, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Community Assistance and Referral Service,
                      Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $10,000 from the 2019
                      program year community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
56, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $22,000 from the 2019 program year community
                      development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
57, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Shelter of Hope, the subrecipient of
                      $12,000 from the 2019 program year community development
                      block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
58, 2020  5-14-2020   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $5,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
59, 2020  5-27-2020   amendment of the scope of services to task order 2018-02
                      between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc., regarding the
                      phase 2 storm water MS4 compliance report.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
60, 2020  5-27-2020   city and Debcon, Inc. regarding the 16th Street Plaza
                      (Judd Plaza) renovation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
62, 2020  5-28-2020   agreement between the city, Kentucky Assisted Housing
                      Authority and Gla-Low of Ashland, LLC to enter into a
                      housing assistance payments contract.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
64, 2020  6-11-2020   city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales and Installation
                      contract for the community center project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
65, 2020  6-11-2020   city and Bristlecone Ventures 2, LLC, regarding the
                      community center project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
66, 2020  6-11-2020   agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $10,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
69, 2020  6-18-2020   agreement with the Ashland Child Development Center,
                      Inc., the subrecipient of $15,000 from the 2020 program
                      year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
70, 2020  6-18-2020   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $20,000 from the 2020 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
71, 2020  6-18-2020   agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc.,
                      Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $20,000 from
                      the 2020 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
72, 2020  6-18-2020   agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
                      Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $40,000 from the 2020
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
73, 2020  6-18-2020   agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $40,000 from the 2020 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
74, 2020  6-18-2020   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $20,000 from the 2020 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
75, 2020  6-18-2020   city and Bristlecone Ventures 2, LLC, regarding the
                      community center project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
98, 2020  6-26-2020   city and Debcon Inc., regarding the 16th Street Plaza
                      (Judd Plaza) renovation project.
                      Authorizing amendment no. 1 between the city and Ashland
108, 2020 8-13-2020   Community Kitchen, the subrecipient of $21,000 from the
                      2019 program year community development block grant-CV
                      funds.
                      Authorizing amendment no. 1 between the city and Ashland
109, 2020 8-13-2020   Senior Center, the subrecipient of $11,000 from the 2019
                      program year community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing amendment no. 1 between the city and
110, 2020 8-13-2020   Community Assistance and Referral Service, Inc. (CARES),
                      the subrecipient of $10,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
127, 2020 9-10-2020   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, LLC,
                      the subrecipient of $12,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
128, 2020 9-10-2020   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $20,000 from the 2020 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Accepting the proposal of Howerton Engineering &
                      Surveying PLLC regarding the Debord Terrace sidewalks,
129, 2020 9-10-2020   stairs and handrail project and authorizing the Mayor to
                      enter into a contract for said services funded by
                      community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Frederick & May Construction
140, 2020 10-23-2020  Company, Inc. for the Debord Terrace sidewalk, stairs and
                      handrail project to be funded by the Housing and Urban
                      Development community development block grant and the
                      Ashland Housing Authority, and repealing Ord. 132, 2020.
                      Authorizing and approving amendment no. 1 between the
145, 2020 10-23-2020  city and the Salvation Army of Ashland, the subrecipient
                      of $10,000 from the 2019 program year community
                      development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City Assisted Housing Authority and
146, 2020 10-23-2020  Gla-Low of Ashland, LLC to enter into a Housing
                      Assistance Payments Contract (HUD 52530A) regarding the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section
                      8 project-based voucher program.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
147, 2020 10-28-2020  city and Tech Coat, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      water treatment plant filter underdrain and media
                      replacement project.
                      Authorizing and approving directing phase 2 of the Gla-
                      Low of Ashland, LLC apartments and authorizing and
160, 2020 11-20-2020  directing the Mayor to execute the phase 2 approval
                      regarding the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development, Section 8 project-based voucher program.
                      Adopting the 2019 community development block grant
161, 2020 12-11-2020  (CDBG) consolidated annual performance and evaluation
                      report (CAPER) and authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      submit the CAPER.
                      Authorizing and approving phase 3 of the Gla-Low of
                      Ashland, LLC apartments and authorizing and directing the
162, 2020 12-11-2020  Mayor to execute the phase 3 approval regarding the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 8
                      project-based voucher program.
                      Adopting the Title VI Program - Civil Rights Assurance
4, 2021   1-28-2021   for the Ashland Bus System; repealing Ord. 117-2018;
                      repealed by Ord. 136, 2024.
                      Authorizing and approving phase 4 of the Gla-Low of
                      Ashland, LLC apartments and authorizing and directing the
9, 2021   1-29-2021   Mayor to execute the phase 4 approval regarding the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 8
                      project-based voucher program.
                      Authorizing and approving amendment to an agreement with
10, 2021  1-29-2021   the Salvation Army of Ashland, the subrecipient of an
                      additional $10,000 from the 2019 program year community
                      development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and approving phase 5 of the Gla-Low of
                      Ashland, LLC apartments and authorizing and directing the
16, 2021  2-26-2021   Mayor to execute the phase 5 approval regarding the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 8
                      project-based voucher program.
                      Granting to the Ashland Tourism Commission the amount of
28, 2021  3-25-2021   $25,000 grant funds received from the American Electric
                      Power Foundation for the purpose of downtown development.
                      Authorizing and approving phase 6 of the Gla-Low of
                      Ashland, LLC apartments and authorizing and directing the
35, 2021  4-12-2021   Mayor to execute the phase 6 approval regarding the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 8
                      project-based voucher program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2021
36, 2021  4-12-2021   grant application for American Rescue Act funding to the
                      Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the Ashland
                      Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
42, 2021  4-23-2021   year 2021 action plan for a community development block
                      grant to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development (HUD).
                      Adopting the 2020-2024 City of Ashland community
43, 2021  4-23-2021   development block grant consolidated plan and the 2020
                      action plan for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development, and repealing Ord. 47, series of 2020.
                      Authorizing and approving phase 7 of the Gla-Low of
                      Ashland, LLC apartments and authorizing and directing the
53, 2021  4-23-2021   Mayor to execute the phase 7 approval regarding the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 8
                      project-based voucher program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
54, 2021  5-24-2021   agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $10,000 from the 2020 program year
                      community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with the Commonwealth of Kentucky
81, 2021  6-11-2021   Transportation Cabinet and the Department of Highways for
                      the administration of an encroachment permit for a fiber
                      optic cable installed within the Greenup Avenue (U.S. 23)
                      right-of way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the city s
95, 2021  6-25-2021   2019 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan substantial amendment #2 to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
                      Adopting the 2020-2024 City of Ashland community
96, 2021  6-25-2021   development block grant (CDBG) consolidated plan and the
                      program year 2020 action plan substantial amendment #1.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the City of
97, 2021  6-25-2021   Ashland 2021 community development block grant (CDBG)
                      annual action plan substantial amendment #1 to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
                      Authorizing and approving phase 8 of the Gla-Low of
                      Ashland, LLC Apartments and authorizing and directing the
98, 2021  6-25-2021   Mayor to execute phase 8 approval regarding the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Section 8
                      project-based voucher program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
110, 2021 8-12-2021   city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2022
                      street paving program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the City of
135, 2021 9-10-2021   Ashland 2021 community development block grant (CDBG)
                      annual action plan substantial amendment #2 to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
                      Adopting the 2020-2024 community development block grant
136, 2021 9-10-2021   (CDBG) consolidated plan and the program year 2020 action
                      plan substantial amendment #2 to the U.S. Department of
                      Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
138, 2021 9-10-2021   Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $26,650 from the 2019
                      program year community development block grant-CV19
                      funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
139, 2021 9-10-2021   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, the
                      subrecipient of $20,000 from the 2019 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
140, 2021 9-10-2021   agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $20,000 from the 2019 program year community
                      development block grant-CV funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
146, 2021 10-14-2021  agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, the
                      subrecipient of $30,000 from the 2021 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
147, 2021 10-14-2021  agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc.,
                      Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $15,000 from
                      the 2021 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
149, 2021 10-14-2021  agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $49,186 from the 2019 and 2020 program years community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
150, 2021 10-14-2021  agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $46,947.68 from the 2019 and 2020 program
                      years community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
151, 2021 10-14-2021  agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $15,000 from the 2021 program year
                      community development block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and approving amendment #1 to an agreement
152, 2021 10-14-2021  with Ashland Community Kitchen, the subrecipient of funds
                      from the 2020 program year community development block
                      grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a highway
                      safety grant application between the Kentucky
156, 2021 10-14-2021  Transportation Cabinet, Office of Highway Safety, for the
                      Ashland Police Department for the period October 1, 2021
                      through September 30, 2022.
                      Adopting the Housing Choice Voucher Program payment
166, 2021 10-15-2021  standards for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development, Division of Assisted Housing (Section 8).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the Commonwealth of Kentucky
172, 2021 11-18-2021  Transportation Cabinet and the city for participation in
                      the Bike Racks Installation Project at a cost of $1,320
                      to be matched by the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and UK King s
174, 2021 11-18-2021  Daughters regarding an encroachment for the construction
                      of two canopies over the walkways on the Bath Avenue side
                      of the hospital, between 22nd and 23rd Streets on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
2, 2022   1-13-2022   22-01 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
                      regarding the 2021 annual combined sewer overflow reports
                      for the Department of Utility Operations.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment to the agreement between the city and
4, 2022   1-13-2022   Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
                      reallocating funding for the 15th and 16th Streets
                      sidewalk project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
                      #1 to the agreement between the city and HDR Engineering,
21, 2022  1-27-2022   Inc. for professional services for a cost-of-service
                      (COS) study of rates for both the water and sewer
                      systems.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the amended
                      FY 2021 grant application to the Federal Transit
22, 2022  1-27-2022   Administration on behalf of the Ashland Bus System for
                      operating costs, preventative maintenance, para transit
                      service, maintenance payroll and capital expenditures.
                      Adopting the PY2020 community development block grant
                      (CDBG) consolidated annual performance and evaluation
30, 2022  4-14-2022   review (CAPER) and authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      submit the PY2020 CAPER to the Department of Housing and
                      Urban Development (HUD).
                      Accepting the proposal of Conventions Sports and Leisure
                      International, LLC for professional services to conduct a
35, 2022  4-14-2022   feasibility study and market analysis regarding the
                      potential development of a conference center at 1401
                      Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
38, 2022  4-15-2022   agreement between the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                      Transportation Cabinet and the City of Ashland for the
                      Winchester Avenue Streetscape Project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2019
74, 2022  5-12-2022   community development block grant (CDBG) annual action
                      plan substantial amendment #3.
80, 2022  5-26-2022   Establishing an Entertainment Destination Center in the
                      downtown of the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
85, 2022  5-26-2022   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, the
                      subrecipient of $30,000 from the 2021 community
                      development block grant.
87, 2022  6-9-2022    Adopting the May 2022 Transit Asset Management Plan for
                      the City of Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
91, 2022  6-9-2022    agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $15,000 from the 2021 community development block
                      grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and Mountain
92, 2022  6-9-2022    Comprehensive Care Center Inc. regarding an encroachment
                      for a freestanding sign at 2222 Winchester Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
93, 2022  6-9-2022    agreement between the City of Ashland and First Christian
                      Church regarding an encroachment for a freestanding sign
                      at 1930 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
106, 2022 6-24-2022   no. 2 to the July 29, 2019 agreement between the city and
                      Strand Associates, Inc. for the wastewater treatment
                      plant expansion.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2022
124, 2022 7-14-2022   action plan for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
                      (HUD).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a public
                      transportation grant agreement between the City of
145, 2022 8-25-2022   Ashland, Ashland Bus System, and the Kentucky
                      Transportation Cabinet for a 2023 Capital State Match
                      Contract Grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a grant
                      assistance agreement between the City of Ashland and the
147, 2022 9-8-2022    Kentucky Infrastructure Authority regarding the water
                      resource information system project under the guidelines
                      of the Cleaner Water Program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
149, 2022 9-8-2022    agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc., d/
                      b/a Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $25,000
                      from the 2022 community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
152, 2022 9-22-2022   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchens, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $40,000 from the 2022 community
                      development block grant (CDBG).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
153, 2022 9-22-2022   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchens, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $37,500 from the 2022 community
                      development block grant (CDBG) for the Food Box Program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
154, 2022 9-22-2022   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $10,000 from the 2022 community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
155, 2022 9-22-2022   agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $30,000 from the 2022 community development block
                      grant.
                      Adopting the PY2021 community development block grant
                      (CDBG) consolidated annual performance and evaluation
161, 2022 9-23-2022   report (CAPER) and authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      submit the PY2021 CAPER to the Department of Housing and
                      Urban Development (HUD).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
162, 2022 9-23-2022   agreement between the City of Ashland and TAJ Holdings
                      LLC regarding an encroachment for a freestanding sign at
                      1800 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Community Assistance
169, 2022 10-14-2022  Referral Service, Inc (CARES), the subrecipient of
                      $40,000 from the 2022 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
170, 2022 10-14-2022  agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $10,000 from the 2022 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
171, 2022 10-14-2022  agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $30,000 from the 2022 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
172, 2022 10-14-2022  memorandum of agreement between the city and the
                      Commonwealth of Kentucky, Department of Local Government
                      regarding a land and water conservation fund grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
177, 2022 11-17-2022  agreement with King s Daughters and Sons Home, the
                      subrecipient of $20,000 from the 2022 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Ratifying and approving the action of the Fire Chief s
179, 2022 11-17-2022  acceptance and execution of the Department of Homeland
                      Security s fiscal year 2021 assistance to firefighters
                      grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
180, 2022 12-15-2022  year 2022 amended action plan (original plan adopted by
                      Ord. 124, 2022) increasing the grant amount.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      memorandum of agreement between the city and the
184, 2022 12-15-2022  Commonwealth of Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet,
                      Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, to govern the design of
                      the Ashland Convention Center AMLER project, and to
                      execute all documents associated with the grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      conditional commitment letter and subsequent grant
188, 2022 12-19-2022  assistance agreement between the city and the Kentucky
                      Infrastructure Authority for a grant in the amount of
                      $300,000.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
7, 2023   2-9-2023    agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $20,000 for operating costs from the
                      2022 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
8, 2023   2-9-2023    the subrecipient of $33,044.21 for employment/education
                      case management from the 2022 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
9, 2023   2-9-2023    Inc., the subrecipient of $49,186 for employment/
                      education case management from the 2022 program year
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      conditional commitment letter and subsequent grant
23, 2023  3-9-2023    assistance agreement between the city and the Kentucky
                      Infrastructure Authority for a grant in the amount of
                      $719,000 for the U.S. 23 (Winchester Avenue) water main
                      replacement project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      memorandum of understanding between the Commonwealth of
53, 2023  4-28-2023   Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the city outlining
                      the approved federal funding through the Federal Highway
                      Administration for the Winchester Avenue streetscape
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the program
60, 2023  5-15-2023   year 2023 action plan for a community development block
                      grant to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      technical assistance agreement between the city and the
                      Nelrod Company in the amount of $1,999 plus hourly
102, 2023 7-28-2023   charges for agency-requested changes for technical
                      assistance and the preparation of the housing choice
                      voucher (Section 8) administrative plan for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
137, 2023 10-6-2023   2019 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan substantial amendment #4.
                      Adopting the PY2022 community development block grant
                      (CDBG) consolidated annual performance and evaluation
138, 2023 10-6-2023   report (CAPER) and authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      submit the PY2022 CAPER to the Department of Housing and
                      Urban Development (HUD).
152, 2023 11-16-2023  2017 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
153, 2023 11-16-2023  2018 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
154, 2023 11-16-2023  2019 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
155, 2023 11-16-2023  2020 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
156, 2023 11-16-2023  2021 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
157, 2023 11-16-2023  2022 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
158, 2023 11-16-2023  2023 community development block grant (CDBG) annual
                      action plan amendment.
24, 2024  2-8-2024    Adopting the city s civil rights assurance program (Title
                      VI).
                      Approving minority loan no. 2024-M-001 to Jerk Riley s
                      Billiards and Pub, LLC in the amount of $50,000 to be
26, 2024  2-8-2024    paid from the 2023 program year community development
                      block grant (CDBG) and authorizing the Mayor to execute
                      loan documents.
                      Execute a conditional commitment letter for a Kentucky
                      Infrastructure Authority (KIA) loan for the city; enlarge
61, 2024  4-11-2024   sewer treatment plant to eliminate overflows project in
                      an amount not to exceed $78,400,000 of which the KIA loan
                      shall provide $44,000,000 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Adopting and authorizing the submission of the Assisted
64, 2024  4-12-2024   Housing Authority KY142 2024 annual plan for the city s
                      Department of Community and Economic Development,
                      Division of Assisted Housing (Section 8).
                      Adopting the community development block grant amended
67, 2024  4-25-2024   five-year consolidated plan (2015-2019) and the amended
                      2015 annual action plan for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Approving minority loan no. 2024-M-003 to the Mill Caf
                      and Bakery, LLC in the amount of $25,000 to be paid from
102, 2024 6-14-2024   the 2023 program year community development block grant
                      (CDBG) and authorizing the Mayor to execute loan
                      documents; repealed by Ord. 130, 2024.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to submit the program year 2024
                      action plan for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
106, 2024 6-14-2024   (HUD), and upon acceptance of said application from HUD,
                      to execute on behalf of the city, an agreement with the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to
                      enable the city to undertake these activities and/or any
                      and all documents associated with the grant submittal.
115, 2024 6-28-2024   Adopting the revised Title VI Program - Civil Rights
                      Assurance Program previously adopted by Ord. 24, 2024.
                      Approving the 2024 rent increase for Gla-Low Apartments
121, 2024 7-25-2024   effective October 1, 2024 for the city, Department of
                      Community and Economic Development, Division of Assisted
                      Housing (Section 8).
136, 2024 7-26-2024   Adopting the Title VI Program - Civil Rights Assurance
                      for the Ashland Bus System; repealing Ord. 4, 2021.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute and submit
                      an application to the government resources accelerating
                      needed transformation (grant) program for public benefits
154, 2024 9-26-2024   improvements for the wastewater treatment plant; and
                      authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
                      of the city any and all documents associated with
                      implementation of the grant.
                      Adopting a relief plan for net profit tax credit to
169, 2024 10-24-2024  provide relief to qualifying businesses negatively
                      affected by the downtown streetscape construction
                      project.
                      Authorization of submittal of 2024 community development
201, 2024 12-12-2024  block grant annual action plan amendment to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorization of change order with Coordinated System
202, 2024 12-12-2024  Consulting, Inc. for the 42" raw water lines
                      rehabilitation project.
                      Authorization of change order with the Department of
210, 2024 12-13-2024  Engineering and Consultants, LLC for the contract
                      regarding the water tank replacement project.
                      Authorization of change order with Martin Painting and
217, 2024 12-13-2024  Coating Company regarding the Debord Hill water tank
                      rehabilitation project.
                      Authorization of agreement with AP3, LLC for the
220, 2024 12-13-2024  development, design and construction of the city
                      conference center project.
                      Authorization of change order for Mechanical Construction
4, 2025   1-10-2025   Company for the 26th Street pump station rehabilitation
                      project.
                      Authorization of change order with Mechanical
12, 2025  2-17-2025   Construction Company for the 26th Street pump station
                      rehabilitation project.
                      Authorization of change order with Light s Enterprises,
14, 2025  2-27-2025   Inc. to increase the contract amount by $1,600 for the
                      demolition of 2414 Beech Street.
                      Authorization of change order for Mechanical Constriction
16, 2025  3-4-2025    Company for the 26th Street pump station rehabilitation
                      project.
18, 2025  3-4-2025    Approving loan to M&J s Rolling Caf , LLC in the amount
                      of $50,000.
                      Authorization of submittal of application to KYOVA
20, 2025  3-4-2025    Interstate Planning Commission for $750,000 for
                      Winchester Avenue streetscape project.
23, 2025  3-27-2025   Authorization of change order with Judy Construction
                      Company for the Roberts Drive screen replacement project.
24, 2025  3-27-2025   Authorization of change order with Leighty Contracting,
                      LLC for the sidewalk replacement project.
                      Authorization of change order with Mechanical
26, 2025  3-27-2025   Construction Company for the 26th Street pump station
                      rehabilitation project.
                      Authorizing change order with C.J. Hughes Construction
36, 2025  4-1-2025    Company, Inc. for the 2022 water and sewer capital
                      improvements plan sewer line and repair project.
41, 2025  4-1-2025    Authorization of change order with CTB, Inc. for the 17th
                      Street city hall entrance project.
                      Authorization of submittal of 2019 Community Development
42, 2025  4-8-2025    Block Grant (CDBG) annual action plan amendment to the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorization of submittal of 2020 Community Development
43, 2025  4-8-2025    Block Grant (CDBG) annual action plan amendment to the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorization of submittal of 2023 Community Development
44, 2025  4-8-2025    Block Grant (CDBG) annual action plan amendment to the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
45, 2025  4-8-2025    Adopting the Community Development Block Grant amended
                      five-year consolidated plan.
47, 2025  4-24-2025   Authorizing change order with CTB, Inc. for the Ashland
                      Senior Center storefront rehabilitation project.
                      Authorization of change order with Everett J. Prescott,
51, 2025  4-24-2025   Inc. for installation of insertion valves for the U.S. 23
                      waterline replacement project.
53, 2025  4-24-2025   Authorization of change order with Allard Excavation, LLC
                      for the Winchester Avenue improvements project.
                      Authorization of change order for C.J. Hughes
54, 2025  4-25-2025   Construction Company, Inc. for the Carr Street/Packard
                      Avenue and Iroquois Avenue sanitary sewer line
                      replacement project.
                      Authorization of contract with Tri-State Construction for
63, 2025  4-25-2025   the King s Daughters and Sons Home fence replacement
                      project.
65, 2025  5-22-2025   Authorization of agreement with King s Daughters and Sons
                      Home for the parking lot repaving project.
                      Authorization of contract with Tri-State Construction for
66, 2025  5-22-2025   the King s Daughters and Sons Home parking lot repaving
                      project.
67, 2025  5-22-2025   Authorization of change order with CTB, Inc. for the 17th
                      Street city hall exterior upgrades project.
68, 2025  5-22-2025   Authorization of amended agreement with Hazen and Sawyer
                      for the lead and copper rule program.
                      Adopting the Streamlined Public Housing Agency (PHA)
                      five-year plan and one-year plan to comply with Section
69, 2025  5-22-2025   511 of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act
                      and ensuing HUD requirements to be submitted to the U.S.
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development.
70, 2025  5-22-2025   Adopting revised Civil Rights Assurance Program (Title
                      VI).
                      Authorization of change order with Mechanical
71, 2025  5-22-2025   Construction Company for the 26th Street pump station
                      rehabilitation project.
                     
 
 
TABLE V: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Local 706,
24-1977   4-14-1977   Ashland City firefighters, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC, relating to employment
                      conditions of firefighters (superseded by Ord. 91-1980).
                      Amending the agreement between the city and Local 706
49-1977   8-4-1977    Ashland City firefighters, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC, the execution of which was
                      authorized by Ord. 24-1977.
                      Authorizing an amendment to the agreement entered into on
74-1978   11-2-1978   May 20, 1977 between Ashland City firefighters, Local
                      706, International Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-
                      CLC.
                      Authorizing an amendment to the agreement entered into on
                      May 20, 1977 and an additional supplemental agreement
21-1979   5-31-1979   between Ashland City firefighters, Local 706,
                      International Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC
                      and the city.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Ashland
91-1980   9-4-1980    City firefighters, Local 706, International Association
                      of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Ashland
89-1982   9-15-1982   City firefighters, Local 706, International Association
                      of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Amending the agreement between the city and Ashland City
45-1984   5-22-1984   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC, the execution of which was
                      authorized by Ord. 89-1982.
                      Amending the agreement between the city and Ashland City
125-1984  11-19-1984  firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC, the execution of which was
                      authorized by Ord. 89-1982, and amended by Ord. 45-1984.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
15-1986   2-18-1986   of the city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
59-1987   6-18-1987   of said city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
68-1988   7-19-1988   of the city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
150-1988  12-8-1988   of said city an amendment to the agreement between
                      Ashland City firefighters, Local 706, International
                      Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
116-1989  10-17-1989  of said city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
75-1990   8-7-1990    of the city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
67-1991   6-27-1991   of the city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Ashland City firefighters,
102-1993  10-7-1993   Local 706, International Association of Firefighters,
                      AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
101-1994  8-4-1994    firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
112-1995  9-21-1995   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
108-1996  10-17-1996  firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with city
168-1997  12-4-1997   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
117-1998  12-17-1998  firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
31-2000   3-16-2000   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
135-2000  9-26-2000   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
157-2001  12-6-2001   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with city
151-2002  12-19-2002  firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
35-2003   3-20-2003   Authorizing execution of agreement with city police
                      officers, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with city
150-2003  12-18-2003  firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with city
06-2006   2-2-2006    firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Adopting amendment no. 1 to the agreement between the
58-2006   5-4-2006    city and the city police officers, Fraternal Order of
                      Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
144-2007  11-15-2007  Agreement between the city and Ashland City police
                      members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Agreement between the city and Ashland City firefighters,
157-2007  12-20-2007  Local 706, International Association of Firefighters,
                      AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Amending agreement between the city and Ashland City
17-2008   2-21-2008   police officers, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge
                      #3.
                      Amending agreement between the city and Ashland City
29-2008   3-20-2008   firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Ashland
80-2008   8-21-2008   City firefighters, Local 706, International Association
                      of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Ashland
146-2009  10-15-2009  City police members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland
                      Lodge #3.
                      Amending Ord. 146-2009 regarding an agreement between the
115-2010  11-18-2010  city and the Ashland City police members, Fraternal Order
                      of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Ashland
33-2011   3-17-2011   City firefighters, Local 706, International Association
                      of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
102-2011  9-1-2011    agreement between the city and Ashland City police
                      members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
32-2013   3-7-2013    memorandum of agreement with the Ashland City
                      Firefighters Local 706 resolving a dispute regarding
                      promotional procedures within the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
18-2014   2-27-2014   agreement with Ashland City firefighters, Local 706,
                      International Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
19-2014   2-27-2014   memorandum of agreement with the City Police Department
                      regarding excess Department of Defense personal property.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
16-2015   1-22-2015   amendment to the agreement between the city and Ashland
                      City police members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland
                      Lodge #3.
                      Amending the authorized positions list for the Department
115-2015  12-10-2015  of Fire of the policies and procedures, compensation plan
                      and classification plan for the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
123-2016  10-27-2016  city and Ashland City firefighters, Local 706,
                      International Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
159-2018  11-15-2018  city and Ashland City firefighters, Local 706,
                      International Association of Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC.
                      Adopting amendment 7 for the Fire Department Union for
168-2018  11-29-2018  the City of Ashland, Kentucky medical care plan and
                      summary plan adopted by Ord. 46-2012 and previously
                      amended.
                      Authorizing execution of a collective bargaining
171-2018  12-13-2018  agreement between the city and city police members,
                      Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Amending Article 20 of the agreement between the city and
114, 2020 8-13-2020   city police members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland
                      Lodge #3, as adopted by Ord. 171, 2018.
                      Amending Article 20 of the agreement between the city and
105, 2021 6-28-2021   city police members, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland
                      Lodge #3, as adopted by Ord. 171, 2018.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
108, 2021 7-22-2021   of the city an agreement between Ashland City
                      firefighters, Local 706, International Association of
                      Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC and the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
193, 2021 12-9-2021   collective bargaining agreement between the city and
                      Ashland City police members, Fraternal Order of Police,
                      Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Amending Article 20 of the agreement between the city and
100, 2022 6-10-2022   Ashland City police members, Fraternal Order of Police,
                      Ashland Lodge #3, as adopted by Ord. 193, 2021.
                      Amending Article 20 of the agreement between the city and
120, 2022 6-24-2022   Ashland City police members, Fraternal Order of Police,
                      Ashland Lodge #3, as adopted by Ord. 193, 2021 and
                      amended by Ord. 100, 2022.
                      Amending Article 20 of the agreement between the city and
75, 2023  6-15-2023   Ashland City police members, Fraternal Order of Police,
                      Ashland Lodge #3, as adopted by Ord. 193, 2021 and
                      amended by Ord. 100, 2022.
                      Amending the authorized positions list to add one public
35, 2024  2-22-2024   service officer in the Department of Police of the
                      classification and compensation plan as adopted by Ord.
                      31, 2023, as previously amended.
                      Amending the authorized positions list of the
                      classification and compensation plan as adopted by Ord.
                      31, 2023, as previously amended, to add three
88, 2024  6-13-2024   firefighters in the Department of Fire and to add one
                      sergeant, one School Resource Officer and reduce the
                      number of police officers by one in the Department of
                      Police.
                      Amending Article 20 of the agreement between the city and
                      Ashland City police members, Fraternal Order of Police,
89, 2024  6-13-2024   Ashland Lodge #3, as adopted by Ord. 193, 2021, and
                      amended by Ord. 100, 2022, Ord. 120, 2022, and Ord. 75,
                      2023.
                     
 
 
TABLE VI: CONDEMNATION
 
 
Ord.    Date Passed Description
                    Consenting to the condemnation of certain property owned by
53-1979 12-20-1979  Chessie Resources based upon a resolution of the Eastern
                    Kentucky Port Authority.
                    Authorizing and directing the Legal Department of the city
4-2017  12-8-2016   to institute condemnation proceedings for permanent
                    easements on three properties located on Simpson Road
                    required for the 29th Street sewer separation project.
                   
 
 
TABLE VII: CONTRACTS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing the execution of a written contract between
48-1977   7-21-1977   the city and the Kentucky Municipal League relating to
                      the collections of delinquent municipal insurance tax by
                      the League.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the
                      city and Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Kentucky, to provide
64-1977   10-6-1977   hospitalization and medical insurance for employees of
                      the city for the period beginning October 1, 1977 and
                      ending September 30, 1978.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
18-1980   2-21-1980   utility system and Credit Bureau of Ashland, Inc. for the
                      purpose of collecting delinquent water bills.
                      Authorizing the execution of an addendum to the agreement
89-1980   9-4-1980    between the city and Kentucky Power Company, dated
                      January 1, 1977.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
106-1980  11-6-1980   moderate rehabilitation annual contributions contract no.
                      A-3218-K for the Department of Planning and Community
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of a rate addendum to the
                      master enrollment agreement with Blue Cross-Blue Shield
                      of Kentucky which was authorized by the Board of
117-1980  12-18-1980  Commissioners of the city on September 29, 1976, and
                      which rate addendum fixed the monthly rates to be paid
                      for single and family premiums, effective retroactively
                      to October 1, 1980.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
109-1985  9-17-1985   existing annual contributions contract no. A 3218-E for
                      funding of 5 rental rehab vouchers for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of an amendatory rider to the
                      master enrollment agreement between the city and Blue
                      Cross and Blue Shield of Kentucky, Inc. and providing for
111-1985  10-1-1985   medical insurance coverage for employees and authorizing
                      the execution of a rider which excludes coverage for
                      services and supplies for human heart, heart/lung, liver
                      and pancreas transplants and the like for the city.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
132-1985  11-19-1985  existing annual contributions contract no. A 3218-E for
                      added funding of five rental rehab vouchers for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the
18-1986   3-18-1986   city and general services administration to provide
                      extraordinary police services for the federal building
                      located at 14th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
30-1987   3-17-1987   existing annual contributions contract no. A 3218-V for
                      funding of ten additional rental rehab program vouchers.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
38-1987   4-21-1987   existing annual contributions contract no. A 3218-E for
                      funding of the Section 8 existing rental program in the
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
                      moderate rehabilitation annual contributions contract no.
120-1987  10-21-1987  A 3218-K for funding of the Section 8 moderate
                      rehabilitation rental program in the Department of
                      Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the
14-1988   2-2-1988    city and the Kentucky Municipal League Unemployment
                      Compensation Reimbursement Trust to include coverage for
                      Ashland Tennis Center employees.
                      Authorizing the execution of a revision to the Section 8
                      moderate rehabilitation annual contributions contract no.
96-1988   9-12-1988   A-3218-K for funding of the Section 8 moderate
                      rehabilitation rental program with the U.S. Department of
                      Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the
                      city and Coleman Trainor & Company in an amount not to
81-1989   8-8-1989    exceed $67,701 as recommended by Howard K. Bell
                      consulting Engineers, Inc., for dechlorination/
                      chlorination facilities improvements at the wastewater
                      treatment plant.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the United
                      States of America, Department of Housing and Urban
51-1990   6-14-1990   Development, allowing the city to process rehabilitation
                      loans under Section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964, as
                      amended.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the United
                      States of America, Department of Housing and Urban
54-1990   6-14-1990   Development, allowing the city to have local loan
                      approval for rehabilitation loans under Section 312 of
                      the Housing Act of 1964, as amended.
                      Authorizing the execution of a consolidated annual
3-1991    1-3-1991    contributions contract no. A-3218E for the housing
                      certificate program.
                      Authorizing the execution of a Section 8 housing annual
                      contributions contract with the U.S. Department of
76-1991   6-27-1991   Housing and Urban Development under project no. KY 36-
                      E142-011, and further authorizing the Mayor to execute
                      all documents associated with said contract.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Booker
77-1991   6-27-1991   Associates, Inc. for comprehensive planning services in
                      an amount not to exceed $45,000 to be paid from CDBG
                      funds.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Allied
89-1991   7-23-1991   Benefit Administrators to administer the City of Ashland
                      s group health insurance.
                      Authorizing contract with J & C Contracting for 1991-92
103-1991  10-1-1991   sidewalk and concrete improvement program in an amount
                      not to exceed $276,357.45.
                      Authorizing contract with Lonnie Wilburn Construction Co.
104-1991  10-1-1991   for 1991-1992 sidewalk improvement program in an amount
                      not to exceed $234,405.20.
                      Authorizing contract with Mountain Ent., Inc. for the
                      purchase of all labor and material for the application of
105-1991  10-1-1991   bituminous asphalt resurfacing to certain streets for the
                      1991-92 paving program in an amount not to exceed
                      $79,229.50.
                      Authorizing contract with Mountain Ent., Inc., for the
106-1991  10-1-1991   purchase of all labor and material for the application of
                      bituminous asphalt resurfacing to certain streets in an
                      amount not to exceed $170,674.32.
                      Authorizing contract with American Legal Publishing Corp.
124-1991  11-22-1991  for the codification of existing ordinances in the amount
                      of $11,350.
                      Authorizing agreement with Sanitation District no. 2
20-1992   2-28-1992   relating to the turning off of water in order to collect
                      their past due sewage bills.
                      Authorizing contract with B & L Utility Contractors, Inc.
103-1992  7-31-1992   for sewer system improvements, Roberts Drive pump station
                      and force main in the amount of $1,195,732.20.
                      Authorizing contract with Branham Construction Co., Inc.
2-1993    1-19-1993   for the sidewalk and concrete improvement program, 1992-
                      1993.
                      Authorizing contract with Mountain Ent., Inc. for
6-1993    1-29-1993   placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the 1992-1993 street paving program in an amount not
                      to exceed $94,677.85.
                      Authorizing agreement with C & D Painting Services, Inc.
31-1993   4-20-1993   for the interior cleaning and repainting of the 55th
                      Street water storage tank in the amount of $42,380 to be
                      paid from the utility fund.
69-1993   6-21-1993   Amending the contract with B & L Utility Contractors,
                      increasing the contract price in the amount of $40,658.
                      Authorizing contract with Mountain Ent., Inc. for
73-1993   6-25-1993   placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the 1993-1994 street paving program.
                      Authorizing contract with Lonnie Wilburn Concrete
74-1993   6-25-1993   Construction Co., Inc. for the 1993-1994 sidewalk and
                      concrete improvement program.
                      Authorizing agreements with Armco Steel Co., L.P.
                      relating to reimbursement for sludge disposal and
98-1993   9-2-1993    equipment; and authorizing submission of an application
                      to the state Natural Resources and Environmental
                      Protection Cabinet for removal credit for ammonia
                      nitrogen.
                      Authorizing contract with Mountain Ent., Inc. for the
                      purchase of all labor and material for the application of
117-1993  10-21-1993  bituminous asphalt resurfacing to certain streets to be
                      paid from community development block grant funds in an
                      amount not to exceed $34,490.
                      Amending contract with B & L Utility adopted by Ord. 103-
138-1993  12-16-1993  1992, increasing contract price in the amount of
                      $14,487.09.
                      Authorizing agreement with Woolpert Consultants to
88-1994   6-28-1994   provide professional services associated with
                      improvements to the CSX Freight Depot in an amount not to
                      exceed $76,995.
                      Authorizing agreement with Sugarbush Hitch Company
108-1994  8-4-1994    Carriage Service regarding the operation of carriage
                      service within the city.
                      Authorizing contract with C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc. for
115-1994  9-1-1994    design, supply and construction renovation of the 55th
                      Street pump station.
                      Authorizing contract with J & C Contracting, Inc. for the
117-1994  9-1-1994    sidewalk and concrete improvement program for the
                      division of street maintenance.
                      Authorizing contract with Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for
118-1994  9-1-1994    placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the 1994-1995 street paving program for the
                      Department of Street Maintenance.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Bonded Chemicals
                      for a one-year supply of potassium permanganate at the
132-1994  10-6-1994   unit price specified in the bid for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Water Production and
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Delta Chemical
                      Corporation for a one-year supply of aluminum sulfate at
133-1994  10-6-1994   the unit price specified in the bid for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Water Production and
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Dravo Lime Company
134-1994  10-6-1994   for a one-year supply of lime at the unit price specified
                      in the bid for the Department of Public Services,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with HVC, Incorporated
                      for a one-year supply of chlorine and sulfur dioxide at
135-1994  10-6-1994   the unit price specified in the bid for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Water Production and
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with P. B. & S.
                      Chemical Company, Incorporated for a one-year supply of
136-1994  10-6-1994   caustic soda 20, caustic soda 50, carbon and
                      hydrofluidsilic acid at the unit price specified in the
                      bid for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Secodyne,
                      Incorporated for a one-year supply of dry cationic
137-1994  10-6-1994   polymer at the unit price specified in the bid for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Water
                      Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement between the city and
142-1994  10-20-1994  Transitions, Inc., regarding the volunteer services
                      provided to the city by inmates at the Transitions
                      Facility.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Morton
157-1994  11-17-1994  International, Inc., for the purchase of 1,000 tons of
                      rock salt.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Aquatic Renovation
158-1994  12-1-1994   Systems, Inc. for the installation and materials for a
                      flexible polyester reinforced PVC membrane lining system
                      at Dawson Pool.
                      Granting ownership and operational responsibilities of
166-1994  12-15-1994  the Hatchery Road pump station and wastewater collection
                      facilities to Sanitation District no. 4.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Pantech, Inc. for
13-1995   2-2-1995    the removal of two underground storage tanks and
                      installation of one underground storage tank.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Coyne Textile
20-1995   2-16-1995   Services for the purchase of all labor, material and
                      services to provide towel, fender cover, mop and mat
                      service for a period of one year.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Spear Corporation
25-1995   3-2-1995    for the installation and materials for a filter system at
                      Dawson Pool.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Baseball
34-1995   3-20-1995   Association, Inc. relating to the operation of the
                      concession stand in Central Park.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Paul G. Blazer
35-1995   3-20-1995   High School Band parents relating to the operation of the
                      concession located in the center of Central Park.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with John D. Meyers &
45-1995   5-4-1995    Associates, PSC for the design of an elevated parking
                      structure.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Cooksey
54-1995   5-18-1995   Brothers Disposal Company, Inc. for the furnishing of a
                      suitable landfill location.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the American Wind
56-1995   6-1-1995    Symphony Orchestra for a concert at its floating arts
                      center on June 29, 1995.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Linda Wright for
65-1995   6-1-1995    the installation of a water main and other related
                      facilities for a water extension outside the city limits
                      at 4400 Dipper Drive.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Professional
66-1995   6-5-1995    Maintenance of Ohio Valley for cleaning services for the
                      Police Department auxiliary office at 2900 Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing a contract with First Industrial Supply for
67-1995   6-5-1995    the renovation of existing areas and construction of
                      additional areas at 1436 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Reynolds
78-1995   6-26-1995   Construction Company for materials and labor to complete
                      the concrete walk around the Central Park pond to the
                      existing plaza at 22nd Street and Lexington Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Bill Ross
87-1995   7-20-1995   Construction for materials and labor to complete the
                      proposed wood bridge over the spillway from the Central
                      Park pond.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Reynolds
88-1995   7-20-1995   Construction Co., Inc. for the renovation and expansion
                      of the bus storage facility.
                      Authorizing execution of an additional mortgage between
89-1995   7-20-1995   the City Community Development Agency Public Housing
                      Authority and First American Bank to complete renovations
                      to property located at 1436 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Blacktop
93-1995   8-3-1995    Industries and Equipment Company for placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 1995-
                      1996 street paving program.
                      Authorizing execution change order no. 1 with Fields
95-1995   8-3-1995    Excavating regarding the Twenty-Ninth Street
                      reconstruction project.
                      Authorizing execution of change order with Reynolds
96-1995   8-3-1995    Construction Co. for increasing funds for materials and
                      labor to complete the concrete walk around the Central
                      Park pond.
                      Authorizing execution of change order with First
102-1995  8-17-1995   Industrial Supply for increasing funds for the renovation
                      of existing areas and construction of additional related
                      areas at 1436 Greenup Avenue.
105-1995  8-17-1995   Authorizing execution of contract with J & J Contracting,
                      Inc. for the 1995-1996 concrete improvement program.
106-1995  8-17-1995   Authorizing execution of contract with J & J Contracting,
                      Inc. for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt work.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 2 with Fields
108-1995  9-7-1995    Excavating for increasing contract price regarding the
                      Twenty-Ninth Street reconstruction project.
                      Authorizing execution of change order with Reynolds
109-1995  9-7-1995    Construction Co. for increasing funds for materials and
                      labor to complete the concrete walk around the Central
                      Park pond.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Garal Boyle for
110-1995  9-7-1995    the installation of a water line extension outside the
                      city limits at 809 Bradley Road.
                      Authorizing change order no. 3 with Fields Excavating for
111-1995  9-7-1995    increasing the contract price regarding the Twenty-Ninth
                      Street reconstruction project.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Kentucky Power
122-1995  9-21-1995   Company for the installation of an underground electrical
                      system in Central Park.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Neptune
126-1995  10-5-1995   Equipment Company for the purchase of various sizes of
                      cold water meters.
                      Authorizing execution of an indemnification statement
130-1995  10-5-1995   regarding the donation of C & O Caboose #900226 by
                      Mansbach Realty Company for use in the Railroad Park
                      Museum.
                      Authorizing execution of final change order with First
132-1995  10-19-1995  Industrial Supply for increasing the contract price for
                      the renovation of existing areas and construction of
                      additional related areas at 1436 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Battery
135-1995  11-2-1995   Terminal, Inc. for the purchase of various sized motor
                      vehicle and equipment batteries.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Morton
136-1995  11-2-1995   International, Inc. for the purchase of 1,500 tons of
                      rock salt.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 4 with Fields
138-1995  11-2-1995   Excavating for increasing the contract price for the
                      Twenty-Ninth Street reconstruction project.
                      Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the Boyd
147-1995  11-16-1995  County Fiscal Court for the leasing of city owned
                      vehicles for use by the Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Ashland
148-1995  11-16-1995  Office Supply to lease a Canon NP 6030 copier at the City
                      Housing Authority.
                      Authorizing execution of a one-year agreement with
150-1995  11-16-1995  Professional Maintenance of Ohio Valley for furnishing
                      janitorial services at 1700 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Nesbitt
154-1995  11-16-1995  Engineering, Inc. for professional services regarding CSX
                      Transportation Inc. vs. the City of Ashland.
                      Authorizing execution of change order with Light s
155-1995  11-16-1995  Enterprises, Inc. regarding the storm drain and paving
                      project on Clements Drive.
159-1995  12-11-1995  Authorizing execution of an agreement with Franz
                      Enterprises for the widening of Earl Street.
166-1995  12-21-1995  Authorizing execution of agreement with Flexisoft to
                      conduct an independent study of the System 36.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with C & D Painting
167-1995  12-21-1995  Service for the purchase of all materials and labor for
                      the painting of various troughs, walls and removal of
                      rust for the water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Professional
1-1996    1-4-1996    Maintenance of Ohio Valley for cleaning services at 1436
                      Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 5 with Fields
2-1996    1-4-1996    Excavating for increasing the contract price regarding
                      the Twenty-Ninth Street reconstruction project.
                      Repealing Ord. 137-1995 and authorizing execution of
                      contract with Otis Elevator Company for furnishing labor
8-1996    1-18-1996   and material, electrical wiring and one-year maintenance
                      agreement for firefighters service phase I and II on
                      public elevator.
9-1996    1-18-1996   Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
                      regarding the Ashland Area Violent Crime Task Force.
                      Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the Lewis
10-1996   2-1-1996    County Sheriff s Department for the lease of up to four
                      city owned vehicles by the Lewis County Sheriff s
                      Department.
                      Repealing Ord. 149-1995 and authorizing execution of an
14-1996   2-1-1996    agreement with the City of Flatwoods, Kentucky, to
                      furnish potable water for distribution and sale.
22-1996   3-7-1996    Authorizing execution of contract with B & L Utility
                      Contractors, Inc. for storm sewer system improvements.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with John D. Meyers &
23-1996   3-7-1996    Associates, PSC for the designation of a central fire
                      station.
30-1996   3-21-1996   Authorizing execution of agreement with GRW Engineers,
                      Inc. for the combined sewer operational plan.
                      Authorizing alley improvement between Kansas Street and
32-1996   4-4-1996    Elm Street pursuant to request of the independent school
                      system.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Baseball
33-1996   4-4-1996    Association, Inc. relating to the operation of the
                      concession stand in Central Park.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Smith, Goolsby,
35-1996   4-18-1996   Artis & Reams, PSC to conduct an audit of the city s
                      financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30,
                      1996.
46-1996   5-16-1996   Authorizing execution of contract with Dravo Lime company
                      for a one-year supply of pebble lime.
47-1996   5-16-1996   Authorizing execution of contract with HVC, Inc. for a
                      one-year supply of potassium permanganate.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Mountain
48-1996   5-16-1996   Enterprises, Inc. for placement and replacement of
                      bituminous asphalt material for the 1996-1997 street
                      paving program.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with P.B. & S. Chemical
49-1996   5-16-1996   Company, Incorporated, for one-year supply of sulfur
                      dioxide, liquid chlorine, hydrofluosilicic acid, powdered
                      activated carbon and liquid caustic soda.
50-1996   5-16-1996   Authorizing execution of contract with Stockhausen, Inc.
                      for a one-year supply of dry cationic polymer.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Rick and Melody
54-1996   6-6-1996    Spears for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits at 2310 Mapleleaf Road.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with B & L Utility
55-1996   6-6-1996    Contractors, Inc. for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work.
56-1996   6-6-1996    Authorizing execution of contract with J & C Contracting,
                      Inc. for the 1996-1997 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Mick Stephens of
61-1996   6-17-1996   Martin Tiff, Inc. for the installation of a sanitary
                      sewer line extension to Melody Mountain.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Cooksey
62-1996   6-17-1996   Brothers Disposal Company, Inc. for the furnishing of a
                      suitable landfill location.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to borrow sufficient funds for
72-1996   7-2-1996    operational expenses for the period July 1, 1996, through
                      June 30, 1997.
73-1996   7-13-1996   Authorizing execution of contract with J & C Contracting,
                      Inc. for the construction of the CSX Depot Restoration.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Tri-Cities Paving
74-1996   7-13-1996   & Contracting, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
                      materials and supplies for the resurfacing of tennis
                      courts at the city park.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with PAR Roofing, Inc.
76-1996   7-13-1996   for the purchase of all material and labor for the
                      reroofing of 1700 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Patton
90-1996   8-16-1996   Construction Company, Inc. for the furnishing of all
                      labor and materials to perform all work for the
                      construction of Ashland Central Fire Station.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 1 with B & L
91-1996   8-16-1996   Utility Contractors, Inc. for increasing the contract
                      price regarding the storm sewer system improvements on
                      Twenty-Ninth Street.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with KYOVA Electrical
94-1996   8-16-1996   Services, Inc. for the purchase of labor and material for
                      the Central Park baseball lighting project.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Morton
96-1996   9-19-1996   International, Inc. for the purchase of 1,500 tons of
                      rock salt.
                      Authorizing execution of release and indemnity agreement
101-1996  10-3-1996   with Ashland, Inc. for the purpose of using their
                      facilities to conduct driver training for the Police
                      Department.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 1 with KYOVA
103-1996  10-3-1996   Electrical Services, Inc. for increasing the contract
                      price regarding the Central Park baseball field lighting
                      project.
112-1996  11-21-1996  Authorizing execution of contract with B & L Utilities,
                      Inc. for the 1996-1997 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Mountain
113-1996  11-21-1996  Enterprises, Inc. for placement and replacement of
                      bituminous asphalt material for the 1996-1997 street
                      paving program.
114-1996  11-21-1996  Authorizing execution of contract with Delta Chemical
                      Company for a one-year supply of aluminum sulphate.
116-1996  11-21-1996  Authorizing execution of contract with Huff Contracting,
                      Inc. for the storm sewer system improvements - phase II.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Building
127-1996  12-5-1996   Maintenance, Inc. for furnishing janitorial services for
                      a one-year period at 1700 Greenup Avenue and 1436 Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Morehead State
5-1997    1-16-1997   University to sublease space in Morehead s Ashland
                      facility for Department of Criminal Justice Training for
                      the Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with KYOVA Electrical
6-1997    2-6-1997    Services, Inc. for the purchase of labor and material for
                      the construction of one storage building.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Badger
17-1997   2-20-1997   Meter, Inc. for the purchase of various sizes of cold
                      water meters.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 1 with Patton
18-1997   2-20-1997   Construction Co., Inc. decreasing the contract price
                      regarding the Ashland Central Fire Station Project.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Clarence Fields
26-1997   3-20-1997   American Legion Post #76 relating to the operation of the
                      concession stand in Central Park.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Paul G. Blazer
27-1997   3-20-1997   High School Band Boosters relating to the operation of
                      the concession stand located in the center of Central
                      Park.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 1 with J & C
29-1997   3-20-1997   Contracting, Inc. for increasing the contract price
                      regarding the CSX Depot restoration project.
                      Authorizing execution of a letter of agreement with
36-1997   4-3-1997    Smith, Goolsby, Artis & Reams, PSC to conduct an audit of
                      the city s financial statement for the fiscal year ending
                      June 30, 1997.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ennis Lewis, for
37-1997   4-3-1997    sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Boyd County
50-1997   4-17-1997   Public Library relating to the storage of microfilm
                      containing minute books from 1858 to 1985 in the
                      genealogy section.
                      Authorizing execution of a settlement agreement with the
52-1997   4-17-1997   Cannonsburg Water District regarding the water rate
                      charged to Cannonsburg Water District.
                      Authorizing execution of a two-year contract with Light s
53-1997   5-1-1997    Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
                      materials, equipment and services to provide tree
                      trimming and removal services.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bill Stapleton
54-1997   5-1-1997    for the installation of a water line extension outside
                      the city s limits at 6700 Skyline Drive.
64-1997   5-15-1997   Authorizing execution of contract with Davey Resource
                      Group for a project maintain and educated.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Central Baptist
67-1997   6-5-1997    Church for sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk
                      replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with B & L Utility
68-1997   6-5-1997    Contractors, Inc. for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work.
69-1997   6-5-1997    Authorizing execution of contract with J & C Contracting,
                      Inc. for the 1997-1998 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of participation agreements with
                      Entertainment Productions, Inc. relating to the
70-1997   6-5-1997    participation of the Recreation Department in a discount
                      program to encourage use of the Central Park tennis
                      courts, ice skating rink and Dawson City Pool.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Cooksey
73-1997   6-12-1997   Brothers Disposal Company, Inc. for the furnishing of a
                      suitable landfill location.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 2 with Patton
74-1997   6-12-1997   Construction Co., Inc. for decreasing the contract price
                      regarding the Ashland Central Fire Station Project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to borrow sufficient funds for
91-1997   6-26-1997   operational expenses for the period July 1, 1997, through
                      June 30, 1998.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 2 with J & C
93-1997   7-1-1997    Contracting, Inc. for increasing the contract price
                      regarding the CSX Depot restoration project.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Jim Manihan for
107-1997  8-7-1997    sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Kentucky Bank and
108-1997  8-7-1997    trust of Boyd County for sidewalk replacement under the
                      50/50 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Becky Fannin for
115-1997  8-21-1997   sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Kurt Jaenicke,
116-1997  8-21-1997   M.D. for sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk
                      replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bill and Pat Gray
127-1997  9-18-1997   for sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk
                      replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with C.J. Rylands for
128-1997  9-18-1997   sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of a letter of agreement accepting
133-1997  10-2-1997   the proposal of Burlington Publishing Systems to
                      supplement the city s code of ordinances on an annual
                      basis.
                      Authorizing execution of change orders nos. 1 and 2 with
135-1997  10-2-1997   Huff Contracting for increasing the contract price
                      regarding the storm sewer system improvements - phase II.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with American Electric
137-1997  10-16-1997  Power for installation of two 333kVA-7200 480/240 V
                      platform transformers, three cutouts and associated
                      materials.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with American Electric
138-1997  10-16-1997  Power to furnish supervision, labor, equipment and
                      specified materials necessary to provide installation and
                      maintenance services for one year.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year agreement with Ashland
143-1997  11-6-1997   Building Maintenance, Inc. for furnishing janitorial
                      services at 1700 Greenup Avenue and 1436 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Morton
148-1997  11-6-1997   International, Inc. for the purchase of 1,500 tons of
                      rock salt.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with P.B. & S. Chemical
153-1997  11-20-1997  Company, Incorporated for a one-year supply of sulfur
                      dioxide, powdered activated carbon and liquid caustic
                      soda.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with HVC, Inc. for a
154-1997  11-20-1997  one-year supply of liquid chlorine, hydrofluosilicic acid
                      and potassium permanganate.
155-1997  11-20-1997  Authorizing execution of contract with A.P.G. Lime Corp.
                      for a one-year supply of pebble lime.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Nancy Tilton for
158-1997  11-20-1997  sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Cannonsburg Water
162-1997  11-20-1997  District regarding the construction of water lines in the
                      Naples area.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Coyne Textile
164-1997  12-4-1997   Service for the rental of uniforms for a period of three
                      years for public service employees.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Ashland
165-1997  12-4-1997   Farm Service for the purchase of work boots for the
                      Department of Public Services employees.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Fairfax, Inc. for
171-1997  12-18-1997  the purchase of all material and labor for the
                      replacement of a portion of roof for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Traffic and Central Garage.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the
2-1998    1-6-1998    Transportation Cabinet for the bus system s capital
                      maintenance items.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Ashland Women
6-1998    2-5-1998    s Care for sidewalk replacement under the 50/50 sidewalk
                      replacement program.
7-1998    2-5-1998    Authorizing execution of a contract with Badger Meter,
                      Inc. for the purchase of cold water meters.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with AMTRAK, Inc.
8-1998    2-5-1998    for the use of stopping and using the common areas of the
                      city s transportation center.
10-1998   2-19-1998   Authorizing execution of a one-year contract with Allied
                      Colloids, Inc. for the purchase of dry cationic polymer.
                      Authorizing execution of a one-year contract with Geo
11-1998   2-19-1998   Specialty Chemicals, Inc. for the purchase of aluminum
                      sulfate.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Pepsi Cola
12-1998   2-19-1998   Bottling Co. of Portsmouth for the purchase of providing
                      a vending machine in the city s transportation center.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with John D. Meyers
20-1998   3-5-1998    & Assoc. PSC Architects for sidewalk replacement under
                      the 50/50 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contribution in aid to
1998      3-19-1998   construction agreement with Kentucky Power Company to
                      cover the cost of installing primary metering, poles, and
                      related facilities at the wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a bill of sale to the Kentucky
                      Power Company for the purchase of three poles with
21-1998   3-5-1998    associated conductor, transformers, metering, services,
                      hardware and appurtenances at the wastewater treatment
                      plant.
23-1998   3-5-1998    Authorizing execution of amended interlocal cooperation
                      agreement.
                      Authorizing execution of a contribution in aid to
- -1998   3-19-1998   construction agreement with Kentucky Power Company for
                      installing metering, poles and related facilities at the
                      wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a bill of sale to Kentucky Power
- -1998   3-19-1998   Company for the purchase of equipment at the wastewater
                      treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a two-year service agreement
27-1998   3-19-1998   American Electric Power, formerly Kentucky Power Company,
                      for the sewage treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a two-year service agreement
28-1998   3-19-1998   with American Electric Power for the water production
                      plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with John D. Meyers &
                      Associates, PSC for the design and preparation of
30-1998   3-19-1998   contract documents and construction administration of a
                      new, full height, five story plus basement stair for the
                      Kentucky Highlands Museum and minor extension of the
                      sprinkler system for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Mountain
36-1998   4-2-1998    Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and replacement of
                      bituminous asphalt material for the 1998-1999 street
                      paving program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Tri-Cities
37-1998   4-2-1998    Paving and Contracting, Inc. for the placement of asphalt
                      overlay onto existing concrete sidewalks for 1998-1999.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Southern Ohio
51-1998   5-20-1998   Trenching & Excavating, Inc. for the storm sewer system
                      improvements, phase III.
                      Authorizing execution of a three-year contract with
57-1998   6-18-1998   Stephens Contracting, Inc. for the removal and disposal
                      of sludge.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with B & L Utility
60-1998   6-23-1998   Contractors, Inc. for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with J & C
61-1998   6-23-1998   Contracting, Inc. for the 1998-1999 concrete improvement
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Cooksey
65-1998   6-23-1998   Brothers Disposal Company for the furnishing of a
                      suitable landfill location.
80-1998   9-3-1998    Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the
                      Lawrence County Fiscal Court for a 1964 Pirsch Pumper.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Sto-Cote
85-1998   9-17-1998   Products for the purchase of material, labor,
                      installation and training of personnel for the portable
                      outdoor ice skating rink.
                      Authorizing execution of memorandum of under- standing
86-1998   9-17-1998   with the Tourism Development Cabinet and the Kentucky
                      Highlands Museum for appropriation of funds for
                      renovations.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 1 with Southern
87-1998   10-1-1998   Ohio Trenching and Excavating regarding the East Central
                      Avenue storm sewer project - phase III.
                      Authorizing execution of a Memorandum of Understanding
93-1998   10-1-1998   with the Tourism Development Cabinet for appropriation of
                      funds for the city s summer motion concerts.
99-1998   11-5-1998   Authorizing execution of an interlocal cooperation
                      agreement regarding the Workforce Investment Act of 1998.
                      Authorizing execution of change order no. 2 with Southern
118-1998  12-17-1998  Ohio Trenching and Excavating, East Central Avenue storm
                      sewer project - phase III (Ord. 51, 1998).
                      Authorizing execution of one year contract with GEO
3-1999    1-7-1999    Specialty Chemicals, Inc. for purchase of aluminum
                      sulfate.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Morton
4-1999    1-7-1999    International, Inc. for purchase of approximately 1,500
                      tons of treated rock salt.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Lewis Adkins for
5-1999    1-7-1999    installation of a water line extension on Little Garner
                      Road outside city limits.
                      Authorizing execution of a professional service agreement
8-1999    2-4-1999    addendum with Woolpert LLP for professional consulting
                      services for the East Central Avenue neighborhood
                      improvements - Chatteroi Street extension.
9-1999    2-4-1999    Authorizing an agreement with AVI Food Systems, Inc. for
                      vending machines located on city property.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Badger Meter, Inc.
10-1999   2-18-1999   for purchase of various sizes of cold water meters for
                      the calendar year 1999.
11-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with Chemical Resources
                      for one year supply of hydrofluosilicic acid.
12-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with Chemical Resources
                      for one year supply of powdered activated carbon.
13-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with Chemical Resources
                      for one year supply of potassium permanganate.
14-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with HVC, Inc. for one
                      year supply of liquid caustic soda.
15-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with HVC, Inc. for one
                      year supply of liquid chlorine.
16-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with P.B. & S. Chemical
                      Company, Inc., for one year supply of sulfur dioxide.
17-1999   2-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with Stockhausen, Inc.
                      for one year supply of liquid polymer flocculant.
                      Authorizing contract with Morehead State University to
18-1999   2-18-1999   sublease space in Morehead s Ashland Facility for Dept.
                      of Criminal Justice training for Ashland Police Dept.
                      Authorizing execution of service agreement for 2 years
22-1999   3-18-1999   with Kentucky Power Company for electrical contracting
                      services.
23-1999   3-18-1999   Authorizing execution of contract with APG Lime Corp. for
                      the purchase of one-fourth inch pebble lime.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Universal Coach
24-1999   3-18-1999   Parts, Inc. for purchase of a replacement for a Detroit
                      Diesel 6V92 DDEC III bus engine with exchange engine.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Cannonsburg Water
38-1999   4-15-1999   District regarding construction of water lines in the
                      Grandview Lake Road area.
39-1999   4-15-1999   Authorizing agreement with Cannonsburg Water District re
                      construction of water line in Grandview Lake Road area.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Light s
41-1999   4-15-1999   Enterprises, Inc. for demolition and removal of all
                      debris at 3349 Central Avenue (rear bldg.), 1012 Belmont
                      Street and 2833 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Parsons
53-1999   5-20-1999   Furniture, Inc., 1638 Winchester Avenue, for 50/50
                      sidewalk replacement.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Rail Construction
54-1999   5-20-1999   Co., Inc. for demolition and removal of all debris at
                      2800 Montgomery Avenue, 3000 Bath Avenue, 4117 Hart
                      Street 1712 Hilton Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Light s
60-1999   5-20-1999   Enterprises, Inc. regarding the relocation of a log
                      house.
                      Authorizing lease agreement with FIVCO Area Development
62-1999   6-3-1999    regarding parking lot located southwest corner of 14th
                      Street and Winchester Avenue securing G.B. Johnson Bldg.
                      1401 Winchester.
77-1999   6-24-1999   Authorizing contract with Cooksey Brothers Disposal Co.,
                      Inc. for landfill for two years.
85-1999   7-15-1999   Authorizing execution of an agreement with Jane Nelson
                      for installation of a water line extension.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the
93-1999   8-5-1999    Cannonsburg Water District for construction of water
                      lines connecting Hurricane Road and Camelot Road.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to borrow sufficient funds for
95-1999   8-5-1999    operational expenses for the period July 1, 1997 through
                      June 30, 2000.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Patty Sublett for
103-1999  9-1-1999    the installation of a water line extension outside the
                      city limits 2042 Hearthstone Drive.
                      Authorizing execution of a one-year contract with J & C
104-1999  9-1-1999    Contracting, Inc. for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair.
105-1999  9-1-1999    Authorizing execution of a two-year contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the tree-trimming services.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with WTCR 103 Radio
108-1999  9-16-1999   Station for the adopt-a-bus program for advertising
                      purposes.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Crace
118-1999  10-21-1999  Construction for all labor and materials for the gravity
                      filter improvement project at the water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the demolition and removal of all
119-1999  10-21-1999  debris of 1130 Belmont Street and 2732 Helton Avenue for
                      the Department of Public Services, Division of Property
                      Code Enforcement.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Western Branch
133-1999  12-2-1999   Diesel, Inc. for the purchase of a replacement for a
                      6V92TA DDEC engine and a replacement V731 ATEC Allison
                      transmission for the Division of Mass Transit.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Mid-Valley
138-1999  12-16-1999  Supply LLC for the purchase and installation of a fuel
                      authorization/management system for the division of
                      Central Garage.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Morton
139-1999  12-16-1999  International, Inc. for the purchase of approximately
                      1,500 tons of treated rock salt.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Morehead State
1-2000    1-6-2000    University to sublease space in Morehead s Ashland
                      faculty for Department of Criminal Justice Training for
                      the Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Chemical
2-2000    1-20-2000   Resources, Inc. for a one-year supply of potassium
                      permanganate, one-fourth inch pebble lime, powdered
                      activated carbon, and hydrosulphuric acid.
3-2000    1-20-2000   Authorizing execution of a contract with Delta Chemical
                      Corporation for a one-year supply of aluminum sulfate.
4-2000    1-20-2000   Authorizing execution of a contract with HVC, Inc. for a
                      one-year supply of liquid chlorine.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with PB & S Chemical
5-2000    1-20-2000   Company, Inc. for a one-year supply of sulphur dioxide
                      and liquid caustic soda.
6-2000    1-20-2000   Authorizing execution of a contract with Polydyne, Inc.
                      for a one-year supply of liquid polymer.
                      Authorizing execution of a three-year lease agreement
13-2000   2-17-2000   with Canon Financial Services, Inc. for the Canon IR 600
                      with finisher D2.
14-2000   2-17-2000   Authorizing execution of a three-year lease agreement
                      with Xerox Corporation for the Xerox 5885F.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the City of
20-2000   3-2-2000    Calettsburg for installation of a new water line to serve
                      the residents of Brumfield Estates.
                      Authorizing execution of change orders 1, 2 and 3 with
21-2000   3-2-2000    ASL Excavating for a contract dated September 3, 1999,
                      regarding the Chatteroi Street reconstruction project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
26-2000   3-2-2000    Enterprises, Inc. for demolition and removal of debris of
                      certain properties located in the city.
27-2000   3-2-2000    Authorizing execution of agreement with Sanitation
                      District No. 4, for wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Mountain
28-2000   3-16-2000   Enterprises, Inc. for placement and replacement of
                      bituminous asphalt material for the 2000-2001 street
                      paving program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with F & L
29-2000   3-16-2000   Electronics, Inc. for the purchase of two-way radio
                      equipment for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Quest Engineers,
33-2000   4-16-2000   Inc. to provide engineering services for sanitary sewer
                      extensions in the Skyline Drive/Boy Scout Road area.
41-2000   4-6-2000    Authorizing execution of a contract with Badger Meter,
                      Inc. for the purchase of water meters.
                      Execution of an agreement with Boyd County Fiscal Court
43-2000   4-20-2000   Sewer System (BCFC) regarding the treatment of the
                      district s wastewater by the city.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Paul G.
44-2000   4-20-2000   Blazer High School Band Parents relating to the operation
                      of the concession stand located in the center of Central
                      Park.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Joseph and
75-2000   6-15-2000   Rebekah Lombardo for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits at 327 Redbud Drive.
88-2000   7-6-2000    Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the Boyd
                      County Police Department for the lease of three vehicles.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Gary Maddox for
89-2000   7-20-2000   the purchase of all labor materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      2746 Beech Street and 3101 and 3117 South 29th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Gary Maddox for
                      the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
93-2000   8-3-2000    services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      1604 Poplar Street, 2819 Winchester Avenue and 615 39th
                      Street.
                      Authorizing execution of an amendment to the memorandum
                      of understanding with the Tourism Development Cabinet and
100-2000  8-3-2000    the Tri-State Fir and Regatta, Inc. for an appropriation
                      of additional monies to be used for operating expenses
                      for the Ashland Summer Motion Concerts.
                      Authorizing execution of an amendment to the memorandum
                      of understanding with the Tourism Development Cabinet and
101-2000  8-3-2000    the Kentucky Highlands Museum, Inc. for an appropriation
                      of additional monies to be used for renovations to the
                      museum.
                      Authorizing execution of an administrative services
102-2000  8-3-2000    agreement with Anthem Benefit Administrators, Inc. for
                      third party administration of the city s self insurance
                      health plan.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with B & L Utility
103-2000  8-17-2000   Contractors, Inc. for all labor and materials for
                      concrete and asphalt repair work.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Huff
                      Contracting, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
104-2000  8-17-2000   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2742 Beech Street and 325 14th
                      Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Dillon
                      Construction Co., Inc. for the purchase of all materials,
119-2000  9-21-2000   equipment, labor and services for the construction of the
                      Skyline Drive sewer extension project for the Department
                      of Public Services.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Scott Aviation for the
122-2000  9-21-2000   Ashland Fire Department to become an in-house repair
                      center for Scott Products.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with David and Judy
130-2000  9-26-2000   Nichols for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits at 304 West Little Garner Road.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
131-2000  9-26-2000   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3009 Lookout Street and 3121 and
                      3129 Powell Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Micro-Comm, Inc.
132-2000  9-26-2000   for the purchase of all equipment, materials and labor
                      for the water distribution telemetry system project for
                      the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Sutphen
133-2000  9-26-2000   Corporation for the purchase of an aerial tower platform
                      and chassis for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Terry Maddox
143-2000  10-19-2000  for the installation of a water line extension outside
                      the city limits at 718 West Old Buckley Road.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the First
144-2000  10-19-2000  Baptist Church for a sidewalk at 1701 Winchester Avenue
                      under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Heritage Bank
147-2000  11-2-2000   for a sidewalk at 855 Central Avenue under the 50/50
                      sidewalk replacement program, with the city s portion to
                      be paid from map funds.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Hourly Computer
148-2000  11-2-2000   Services, Inc. for the purchase and installation of one
                      Window NT server network system for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Engineering.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with U.S. Filter
149-2000  11-2-2000   Davis Products for the purchase and installation of an
                      Odor Control System for the hydrogen sulfide at the
                      Roberts Drive Pump Station.
                      Authorizing execution of a work order with Quest
150-2000  11-2-2000   Engineers, Inc. for flow monitoring/sampling of the city
                      s combined sewer overflows.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Otis Elevator
159-2000  11-16-2000  Company for the purchase of all materials and labor
                      necessary for the Municipal Building elevator
                      modernization project.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Robert
162-2000  11-16-2000  Thornbury for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits at 337 West Little Garner Road.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with David Porter
163-2000  11-16-2000  for the installation of a waterline extension outside the
                      city limits at Porter Knob, Radio Park Hill Road.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Mike Williams
169-2000  12-7-2000   of Power Products, Inc. for a sidewalk at 3225 Greenup
                      Avenue under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement program with
                      the city s portion to be paid from map funds.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Judy
172-2000  12-7-2000   Construction Company for all labor and materials relating
                      to the wastewater treatment plant belt filter replacement
                      for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of agreement with
                      the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Office of the Governor and
175-2000  12-21-2000  Department for Local Government regarding the
                      administration of the grant for the Ashland Water Front
                      Project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with PB&S Chemical
                      Company, Inc. for a one-year supply of sulfur dioxide,
7-2001    1-18-2001   liquid chlorine and liquid caustic soda for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Stockhausen,
8-2001    1-18-2001   Inc. for a one-year supply of liquid polymer flocculant
                      for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Delta Chemical
9-2001    1-18-2001   Corporation for a one-year supply of aluminum sulfate for
                      the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Chemical
                      Resources, Inc. for a one-year supply of one- fourth inch
10-2001   1-18-2001   pebble lime and powdered activated carbon for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with J & C
11-2001   1-18-2001   Contracting, Inc. for the concrete improvement program
                      for the Department of Public Services, Division of Street
                      Maintenance.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Morton
                      International, Inc. for the purchase of approximately
12-2001   1-18-2001   1,500 tons of treated rock salt for ice and snow control
                      for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Duncan
13-2001   1-18-2001   Industries for the purchase of 100 parking meters for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
14-2001   2-1-2001    November 14, 2000, with Micro-Comm, Inc. for a contract
                      dated September 27, 2000 regarding the water distribution
                      telemetry system project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with HVC, Inc. for a
15-2001   2-1-2001    one-year supply of hydro-fluosilicic acid and potassium
                      permanganate for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a corporate authorization
23-2001   2-15-2001   resolution and signature forms for the execution of
                      checks for Disaster and Emergency Services.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Badger Meter,
26-2001   3-1-2001    Inc. for the purchase of water meters for the Department
                      of Public Services, Division of Customer Service.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with J & C
28-2001   3-1-2001    Contracting, Inc. for the modernization of Central Park
                      restroom facilities for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Park Maintenance.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Mountain
                      Enterprises Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
28A-2001  3-15-2001   materials, equipment and services for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2001
                      street paving program.
29-2001   3-15-2001   Authorizing execution of a five-year lease agreement with
                      Xerox Corporation for the Xerox 5830T.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
31-2001   3-15-2001   February 23, 2001 with Dillon Constructions Co., Inc. for
                      a contract dated November 8, 2000 regarding the Skyline
                      Drive sanitary sewer extension project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Bill Enyart &
47-2001   4-19-2001   Sons Contracting, Inc. for the purchase of all materials,
                      supplies, tools, equipment, labor, and services for the
                      contract no. 1 transmission main.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with the Crom
                      Corporation for the purchase of all materials, supplies,
48-2001   4-19-2001   tools, equipment, labor and services for the construction
                      of a 3.0 million gallon storage tank, Ashland water
                      treatment plant phase 1.
49-2001   4-19-2001   Authorizing execution of a contract with the Kentucky
                      Power Company changing Tariff MGS to Tariff LGS.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 dated April
50-2001   4-19-2001   6, 2001, with Dillon Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract dated November 8, 2000 regarding the Skyline
                      Drive sanitary sewer extension project.
                      Authorizing execution of an administrative service
55-2001   5-3-2001    agreement with Anthem Benefit Administrators, Inc. (ABA)
                      for third party administration of a managed pharmacy
                      program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with KYOVA Electrical
56-2001   5-3-2001    Services, Inc. for the purchase of all materials, labor
                      and equipment to install lighting for the Southside
                      Softball Field.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
57-2001   5-3-2001    Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
                      materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain properties.
                      Authorizing a memorandum of execution of a memorandum of
                      agreement the Governor s Commission on Fire Protection,
59-2001   5-3-2001    Personnel Standards and Education and the Ashland Fire
                      Department for the Kentucky Community and Technical
                      College System s State Fire Rescue Training Program.
                      Authorizing execution of a merchant services agreement
63-2001   5-17-2001   with National Processing Company, retaining NPC to
                      process Visa/Mastercard payments for the City of Ashland.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated April
                      19, 2001, with Judy Construction Co. for a contract dated
64-2001   5-17-2001   January 12, 2001 regarding the wastewater treatment plant
                      modifications for the belt filter press replacement
                      project.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Coyne Textile
67-2001   5-17-2001   Services for the rental of work uniforms for all
                      divisions of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of an extension to the agreement
69-2001   6-7-2001    with the Ashland Bus System and WTCR 103 for the adopt-a-
                      bus program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Buchanan Sound
73-2001   6-21-2001   & Communications, Inc. for a sidewalk at 2430 Carter
                      Avenue under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with George Mike
74-2001   6-21-2001   Robinson for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits at 100 Kiser Lane.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with KYOVA Electrical
                      Services for the purchase of all labor, materials and
75-2001   6-21-2001   equipment to install motor protection devices on three
                      starters at the 26th Street Pump Station for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Floodwall.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with KYOVA Electrical
76-2001   6-21-2001   Services for all materials, labor and equipment to
                      construct an 18 feet by 30 feet pole storage building for
                      the Department of Public Services, Division of Floodwall.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with McNeil Fence Co.
77-2001   6-21-2001   of Huntington, Inc. for all labor, materials and
                      equipment to remove existing pool fence and install new
                      fencing around both Dawson Pool and Park.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Eastern State s
                      Pump & Equipment, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
85-2001   6-21-2001   materials and equipment to supply and install a sewer
                      pump station with dual pumps for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Verizon South
92-2001   6-26-2001   for equipment and service to upgrade the Norstar
                      Telephone System for the City Building.
94-2001   6-28-2001   Authorizing execution of an agreement with Pitney Bowes
                      for the purchase of a Documatch Mailing Machine.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Cooksey Brothers
98-2001   6-28-2001   Disposal Co., Inc. for a suitable landfill location for
                      the receipt and disposal of compacted garbage and refuse.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Stephens Hauling
99-2001   6-28-2001   for the removal and disposition of sludge from the City
                      of Ashland wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
102-2001  7-19-2001   Enterprises, Inc. for all labor and materials for tree
                      trimming for a one-year period.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Big Sandy
103-2001  7-19-2001   Guardrail regarding providing labor and materials for the
                      installation of the guardrails and a crash cushion for
                      the mall exit ramp.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Thomas
                      Environmental Contracting Corp. for the purchase of all
104-2001  8-2-2001    labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      installation of 1,367 linear feet of six-inch water line
                      for the East Central Avenue water systems improvements.
                      Authorizing and approving change order No. 1 dated July
109-2001  8-7-2001    27, 2001 with Bill Enyart & Sons Contracting, Inc. for a
                      contract dated April 20, 2001 regarding the water
                      treatment plant transmission main project.
                      Authorizing execution of an addendum to the
115-2001  9-6-2001    administrative service agreement with Anthem Benefit
                      Administrators, Inc. (ABA) for third party administration
                      of the city s self insurance health plan.
                      Authorizing with execution of a contract Taylor Chevrolet
119-2001  9-20-2001   Inc. for the purchase of one Pak-Mor full size, 20 cubic
                      yard, rear loading packer truck of the Department Public
                      Services, Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Paul Baldridge
120-2001  9-20-2001   for the installation of a water line extension outside
                      the city limits on Salisbury Road.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Shawn Sergent
121-2001  9-20-2001   for the installation of a water line extension outside
                      the city limits at 1815 West New Buckley Road.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Louise P. Hoy,
122-2001  9-20-2001   the C.C. Price Land Co., for a sidewalk at 207 16th
                      Street under the 50/50 sidewalk replacement program.
                      Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the Boyd
123-2001  9-20-2001   County Fiscal court for the lease of two vehicles to be
                      used by the Boyd County Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with B & L Utility
127-2001  10-2-2001   Contractors, Inc. for all labor and materials for the
                      miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair work for one
                      year.
                      Authorizing execution of a letter of acceptance for
129-2001  10-2-2001   transportation enhancement funds in the amount of
                      $250,000 from the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet.
                      Authorizing execution of a release for expenses incurred
131-2001  10-2-2001   by the city due to the Martin County and coal slurry
                      discharge.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with James R. and
133-2001  10-18-2001  Stacy L. Wilburn for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits at 8527 Ponderosa
                      Ridge.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
134-2001  10-18-2001  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain properties for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Property Code
                      Enforcement.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Power Products,
135-2001  10-18-2001  Inc. for the purchase of a replacement Detroit diesel bus
                      engine, with exchange, and an ATEC Allison remanufactured
                      transmission for the Division of Mass Transit.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreed order with the City of
136-2001  10-18-2001  Catlettsburg and the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural
                      Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, regarding
                      Brumfield Estates.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with William and
137-2001  10-25-2001  Susan Short regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign, parking and a buffer at 2340
                      Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with James L. and
140-2001  10-25-2001  Mary A. Powers for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits on Lowe Gehringer Road.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Robert Workman
141-2001  10-25-2001  for the installation of a water line extension outside
                      the city limits on Pondersosa Ridge.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 dated
                      September 10, 2001 with Judy Construction Co. for a
143-2001  10-25-2001  contract dated January 12, 2001 regarding the wastewater
                      treatment plant modifications for the Belt Filter Press
                      Replacement Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 dated July
                      17, 2001 and change order no. 4 dated October 12, 2001
148-2001  11-8-2001   with Dillon Construction Co., Inc. for a contract dated
                      November 8, 2000 regarding the Skyline Drive sanitary
                      sewer extension project.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with M. Shannon
151-2001  11-15-2001  Hall for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits on Friel Court.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Morton
                      International, Inc. for the purchase of approximately
158-2001  12-20-2001  1,500 tons of treated rock salt for ice and snow control
                      in an amount not to exceed $40.45 per ton for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Prince
                      Electronics for the purchase of all labor, materials and
159-2001  12-20-2001  equipment for the installation of a security camera
                      system at the wastewater treatment plant for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
1-2002    1-3-2002    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Property Code
                      Enforcement.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Rail
                      Construction Co. for the purchase of all labor,
2-2002    1-3-2002    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain properties for the
                      Department of Public Services Division of Property Code
                      Enforcement.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with B & L Utility
3-2002    1-3-2002    Contractors, Inc. for the concrete improvement program
                      for the Department of Public Services, Division of Street
                      Maintenance.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
4-2002    1-3-2002    November 21, 2001, the Crom Corporation for a contract
                      dated April 20, 2001 regarding the water treatment plant
                      phase I.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Prince
                      Electronics for the purchase of all labor, materials and
6-2002    1-17-2002   equipment for the installation of a security camera
                      system at the water treatment plant for the Department of
                      Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Brenntag Mid-
7-2002    1-17-2002   South Inc. for a one-year supply of sulfur dioxide for
                      the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Chemical Inc.
8-2002    1-17-2002   for a one-year supply of liquid caustic soda for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with CIBA Specialty
9-2002    1-17-2002   Chemicals Corp. for a one-year supply of liquid polymer
                      for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Vopak USA Inc.
10-2002   1-17-2002   for a one-year supply of liquid chlorine for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Chemical
                      Resources, Inc. for a one-year supply of powdered
11-2002   1-17-2002   activated carbon, hydrofluosilicic acid and potassium
                      permanganate for the Department of Public Services,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with GEO Specialty
12-2002   1-17-2002   Chemicals for a one-year supply of aluminum sulfate for
                      the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Delta Chemicals
13-2002   1-17-2002   for a one-year supply of poly-aluminum chloride for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Greer
14-2002   1-17-2002   Industries, Inc. for a one-year supply of three- fourths
                      inch pebble lime for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Water Treatment and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of any and all documents that may
17-2002   1-17-2002   be related to the settlement of the City of Ashland v.
                      Allied Benefit Administrators, Inc., et al.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Jeff Franz for
21-2002   2-21-2002   the installation of a water line extension outside the
                      city limits on Skyline Drive.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Badger Meter,
26-2002   3-7-2002    Inc. for the purchase of water meters for the measurement
                      of cold water for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Customer Service.
                      Authorizing execution of a letter of agreement with Paul
27-2002   3-7-2002    Combs & Associates, Inc. for assistance in reviewing the
                      city s current employment policies and procedures and
                      classification and compensation plans.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Whayne Supply
29-2002   3-7-2002    Company for the purchase of a rubber tire tractor/
                      backhoe/loader for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Mountain
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
32-2002   3-21-2002   materials, equipment and services for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2002
                      street paving program for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Streets.
                      Repealing Ord. 1-2002 and authorizing execution of a
34-2002   3-21-2002   contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc. regarding the
                      demolition of property at 3028 Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2, dated March
                      5, 2002, between the city and Bill Enyart & Sons
37-2002   4-4-2002    Contracting, Inc., for a contract dated April 20, 2001,
                      regarding the water treatment plant-transmission main
                      project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a service agreement
39-2002   4-18-2002   between the city and Kentucky Power Company for
                      electrical contracting services for the Department of
                      Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
40-2002   4-18-2002   between the city and Delta Dental Plan of Kentucky, Inc.,
                      regarding dental insurance.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
42-2002   5-2-2002    between the city and Abbott Enterprises, Inc., for the
                      purchase of a jet truck for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Franklin Mosko Consultants to
43-2002   5-2-2002    provide technical assistance to the city under Title I of
                      the Housing and Community Development Act of 1975 in
                      preparing the city s three-year consolidated plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
44-2002   5-2-2002    between the city, the city bus system and Clear Channel
                      Communications for the adopt-a-bus program for
                      advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, dated April
                      25, 2002, between the city and Thomas Environmental
46-2002   5-16-2002   Contracting Corporation for a contract dated August 3,
                      2001, regarding the East Central Avenue water system
                      improvements.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and KYOVA Electrical
53-2002   6-20-2002   Services for the purchase of labor, materials, and
                      equipment to upgrade the Roberts Drive Pump Station
                      Controls for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and KYOVA Electrical
54-2002   6-20-2002   Services for the purchase of labor, materials, and
                      equipment to install underground conduit for the
                      relocation of utilities in the South Ashland Business
                      District.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and B & L Contractors
55-2002   6-20-2002   for the purchase of labor, materials, and equipment to
                      build a concrete valve pit on site for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and B & L Contractors
56-2002   6-20-2002   for the purchase of labor, materials, and equipment for
                      the Coburn Avenue Area Sanitary Sewer Improvements for
                      the Department of Public Services, Division of Wastewater
                      Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Summit Supply
57-2002   6-20-2002   Corporation of Colorado for the purchase of various
                      pieces of playground equipment for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Parks.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an addendum to the administrative services
                      agreement between the city and Anthem Benefit
66-2002   6-27-2002   Administrators, Inc., for third party administration of
                      the city s self-insurance health plan and the policy
                      schedule for the City of Ashland Managed Transplant
                      Renewal.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
67-2002   7-2-2002    execute an agreement with James Lewis for the
                      installation of a water line extension outside the city
                      limits at 440 Mary Lewis Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and BFI Waste Systems
81-2002   8-1-2002    of North America, Inc., for the removal and disposition
                      of sludge from the wastewater treatment plant for a
                      period of one year for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Cooksey Brothers
                      Disposal Company, Inc., for a suitable landfill location
82-2002   8-1-2002    for the receipt and disposal of compacted garbage and
                      refuse, rubble and rubbish collected by the city for a
                      period of one year in an amount not to exceed $17 per ton
                      for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Sanitation.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city and John B.
83-2002   8-1-2002    Christie, regarding the leasing of parking spaces on the
                      city s municipal parking lot at 15th Street and Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an application for excess loss coverage insurance
                      and the employee disclosure statement with Monumental
86-2002   8-1-2002    Life Insurance Company and an agreement with National
                      Benefit Resources, Inc., all relating to the city s
                      health insurance coverage and all other related material
                      for third party administration of the city s self-
                      insurance health plan.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 5, dated July
                      22, 2002, between the city and Dillon Construction
92-2002   8-15-2002   Company, Inc., for a contract dated November 8, 2000,
                      regarding the Skyline Drive sanitary sewer extension
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
96-2002   8-15-2002   execute a pipeline crossing agreement between the city
                      and CSX Transportation, Inc., for the 25th Street storm
                      relief project.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Neptune Equipment
97-2002   9-5-2002    Company for the purchase of water meter reading devices
                      and software for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Customer Service.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Kentucky
98-2002   9-5-2002    Underground, Inc., for the purchase of pipe for the Moore
                      Street Drainage Project for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
101-2002  9-19-2002   execute a contract between the city and Kentucky Power
                      Company for the purchase and installation of post top
                      decorative lighting for the Linear Park.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Fields
                      Excavating, Inc. for the installation of approximately
102-2002  9-19-2002   4,00 linear feet of 24-inch through 72-inch reinforced
                      concrete storm piping along the manholes, storm boxes and
                      related appurtenances for the 25th Street area storm
                      relief project.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
109-2002  10-2-2002   execute an agreement between the city, Ashland Bus System
                      and Kindred Communications, Inc. for the adopt-a-bus
                      program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
110-2002  10-2-2002   execute an agreement between the city, Ashland Bus System
                      and WLGC 105.7 FM for the adopt-a-bus program for
                      advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
111-2002  10-2-2002   execute an agreement with Mrs. Don Helton for the
                      installation of a water line extension outside the city
                      limits at 5215 Bybee Road.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and B & L Utility
112-2002  10-2-2002   Contractors, Inc. for all labor and materials for the
                      miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair work for one
                      year in an amount not to exceed those specified in their
                      bid.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Godwin Pumps of
113-2002  10-2-2002   America, Inc. for the purchase of a 68 h.p. portable
                      trash pump for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Municipal
114-2002  10-2-2002   Equipment, Inc. for the lease/purchase of one full-sized,
                      20 cubic yard, rear loading packer truck and weatherproof
                      camera system for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and Whayne Supply
115-2002  10-2-2002   Company for the lease/purchase of a rubber tire tractor/
                      backhoe/loader with extendable boom for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute a contract between the city and B & L Utility
119-2002  10-2-2002   Contractors for the repair of a pressurized 36-inch water
                      main located at the Ashland Water Plant for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Water
                      Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city, Department of
125-2002  10-17-2002  Police and Gregory L. Spears, M.D., designating him as
                      the medical director for the automatic external
                      defibrillator program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a lease/
126-2002  11-7-2002   purchase agreement between the city and Tymco
                      International, Ltd. for a regenerative air sweeper for
                      the Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Ashland Fabricating & Welding for
127-2002  11-7-2002   the fabrication and installation of two carousel mist
                      covers for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Ditch Witch Trenching Co. of Ky. for
134-2002  11-21-2002  the purchase of a four-wheel drive trencher for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Water
                      Distribution.
                      Authorizing the directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and N.E. Zabkar Corp. for the purchase
135-2002  11-21-2002  and installation of channel grinders at the 26th Street
                      sewer lift station for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
136-2002  11-21-2002  between the city and Service Pump & Supply Company for
                      the purchase of two non-clog wastewater pumps for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and McDaniel Electric for the purchase
137-2002  11-21-2002  and installation of an automatic transfer switch for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of wastewater
                      treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, dated
                      October 3, 2002, between the city and KYOVA Electric,
138-2002  11-21-2002  Inc. for a contract dated June 21, 2002, regarding the
                      relocation of utilities in the South Ashland Business
                      District.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
143-2002  12-5-2002   agreement between the city and Robert Newman for the
                      installation of a water line extension outside the city
                      limits at State Route 5 and Emily Way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
147-2002  12-19-2002  between the city and B & L Utility Contractors, Inc. for
                      the concrete improvement program for the Division of
                      Street Maintenance at the prices specified in their bid.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Morton International, Inc. for the
148-2002  12-19-2002  purchase of approximately 1,500 tons of treated rock salt
                      for ice and snow control in an amount not to exceed
                      $33.98 per ton for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Service Pump & Supply Company for
                      the purchase and installation of two new submersible dry-
2-2003    1-2-2003    pit pumps and control upgrades for the 10th Street pump
                      station and the removal of existing pumps and associated
                      equipment for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Service Pump & Supply Company for
                      the purchase and installation of three new submersible
3-2003    1-2-2003    dry-pit pumps and control upgrades for the 6th Street
                      pump station and the removal of existing pumps and
                      associated equipment for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
9-2003    2-6-2003    between the city and Wildcat Excavating & Construction,
                      LLC for the installation of drainage on Marcia Street for
                      the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
                      January 2, 2003, and change order no. 2 dated January 7,
10-2003   2-6-2003    2003, between the city and Fields Excavating, Inc. for a
                      contract dated September 17, 2002, regarding the 25th
                      Street area storm relief project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
11-2003   2-20-2003   between the city and Adams Robinson Enterprises, Inc. for
                      the water treatment plant improvements - phase II for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for a one-year supply of
12-2003   2-20-2003   liquid caustic soda, powdered activated carbon, liquid
                      chlorine and sulfur dioxide at the unit prices specified
                      in their bid for the Department of Public Services,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Chemical Resources, Inc. for a one-year supply of
13-2003   2-20-2003   hydrofluosilicic acid and potassium permanganate at the
                      unit prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Water Production and
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with GEO Speciality Chemical for a one-year supply of
15-2003   2-20-2003   aluminum sulfate at the unit prices specified in their
                      bid for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Greer Industries, Inc. for a one-year supply of
16-2003   2-20-2003   three-fourths inch pebble lime at the unit prices
                      specified in their bid for the Department of Public
                      Services, Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater
                      Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Polydyne, Inc. for a one-year supply of liquid
17-2003   2-20-2003   polymer at the unit prices specified in their bid for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
18-2003   2-20-2003   January 31, 2003, between the city and Kentucky Power
                      Company for a contract dated October 17, 2002, regarding
                      the Linear Park Lighting Project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
19-2003   2-20-2003   January 27, 2003, between the city and KYOVA Electrical
                      Services, Inc. for a contract dated June 21, 2002,
                      regarding the Roberts Drive Pump Station Controls.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city, Department of Fire, and
27-2003   3-6-2003    Gregory Eastham, M.D., designating him as the medical
                      director overseeing the automatic external defibrillator
                      program and EMT training.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Light s Enterprises, Inc. for all
30-2003   3-20-2003   labor and materials for tree trimming for a one year
                      period for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Badger Meter, Inc. for the purchase
34-2003   3-20-2003   of water meters for the measurement of cold water for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Customer
                      Service.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
37-2003   3-27-2003   agreement between the city and the Cannonsburg Water
                      District regarding 1600 feet of four-inch water line
                      along Grandview Lake Road.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Delta Chemical Corp. for a one-year supply of poly-
39-2003   3-27-2003   aluminum chloride (PAC) at the unit prices specified in
                      their bid for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and JMK Electric Co., Inc. for the
40-2003   3-27-2003   purchase and installation of holophane lighting for the
                      South Ashland Business District for the Department of
                      Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
41-2003   3-27-2003   agreement between the city/Ashland Main Street Program
                      and Scott Sewell dba Eclipse Communications regarding the
                      Downtown Ashland Market Analysis Report.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Terri
42-2003   4-3-2003    Morgan for the installation of a water line extension on
                      Parkview Drive outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Mountain
                      Enterprises, Inc., for the purchase of all labor,
43-2003   4-3-2003    materials, equipment and services for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2003
                      street paving program.
                      Approving change order no. 3 dated February 19, 2003, for
44-2003   4-3-2003    the contract dated September 17, 2002 between the city
                      and Fields Excavating, Inc., for the 25th Street area
                      storm relief project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with John
47-2003   4-17-2003   B. Christie regarding the leasing of parking spaces north
                      of the floodwall and west of the depot property and
                      repealing Ord. 100-2002.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
48-2003   4-17-2003   Kentucky State Police, Governor s Highway Safety Program,
                      in the amount of $10,000 on behalf of the Ashland Police
                      Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
51-2003   4-17-2003   Ashland Human Rights Commission and the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky regarding receipt of $1,000 to conduct a Fair
                      Housing Event on April 26, 2003.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Kamp
                      Mining and Construction, Inc., for all labor and
52-2003   4-17-2003   materials for the miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work for one year in the amount not to exceed
                      those specified in their bid.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Bill
53-2003   4-17-2003   Enyart & Sons Contracting, Inc., for the concrete
                      improvement program at the prices specified in their bid.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
61-2003   6-5-2003    Cannonsburg Water District regarding construction of
                      water lines in the area near the intersection of I-64 and
                      U.S. 23.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
62-2003   6-5-2003    Ashland Bus System and Clear Channel Communications for
                      the adopt-a-bus program.
                      Approving change order no. 4, dated May 12, 2003, to the
67-2003   6-19-2003   contract dated September 17, 2002, with Fields
                      Excavating, Inc., regarding the 25th Street area storm
                      relief project.
                      Approving change order no. 5, dated May 15, 2003, to the
74-2003   6-20-2003   contract dated September 17, 2002, with Fields
                      Excavating, Inc., regarding the 25th Street area storm
                      relief project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
81-2003   7-1-2003    Kentucky Power Company for electrical contracting
                      services for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Donald
85-2003   7-17-2003   L. Forrest for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits at 1821 W. Tara Drive.
                      Authorizing change order no. 1, dated June 16, 2003, to
86-2003   7-17-2003   the contract with Adams Robinson, dated April 10, 2003,
                      regarding the Ashland water treatment plant improvements/
                      phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with John
101-2003  8-21-2003   Thompson for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits on Ponderosa Ridge Road.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Cooksey
                      Brothers Disposal Company, Inc., for a suitable landfill
103-2003  8-21-2003   location for one year in an amount not to exceed $18.75
                      per ton, for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Green
                      Valley Environmental Corporation for the removal and
104-2003  8-21-2003   disposition of sludge from the city wastewater treatment
                      plant for one year for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with TLG
105-2003  8-21-2003   Development Co., Inc., GCG Ashland LLC, and RLG Ashland
                      LLC regarding the development of parcels of property
                      known as Melody Mountain .
                      Designating the city a participant in the Boyd County
113-2003  9-4-2003    Solid Waste Management Area, and authorizing the Mayor to
                      execute the plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Allen
115-2003  9-18-2003   Holbrook for the installation of a water line extension
                      on Paradise Lane outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with John
118-2003  10-9-2003   B. McNurlin for the installation of a water line
                      extension at 4438 Dipper Drive outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2, dated
119-2003  10-16-2003  September 9, 2003, to the contract with Adams Robinson,
                      April 10, 2003, regarding the Ashland water treatment
                      plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with George
120-2003  10-16-2003  Aldridge for the installation of a water line extension
                      on Hoods Creek Pike outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Robert
121-2003  10-16-2003  Newman for the installation of a water line extension on
                      Dickerson Road outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
122-2003  10-16-2003  Ashland Bus System and Kindred Communications, Inc. for
                      the adopt-a-bus program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
123-2003  10-16-2003  Ashland Bus System and WLGC 105.7 FM for the adopt-a-bus
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a corporate
126-2003  10-16-2003  authorization resolution and signature forms for the
                      execution of checks for Disaster and Emergency Services.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with UK King s
133-2003  11-4-2003   Daughters regarding an encroachment for the installation
                      of parking spaces on the south side of the 2200 block of
                      Central Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Tom McLeod,
134-2003  11-4-2003   McLeods Body Shop regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign at 4555 13th Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement with the
135-2003  11-4-2003   Worthington Police Department for the lease of one used
                      police vehicle.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Kevin
136-2003  11-4-2003   Justice for the installation of a water line extension on
                      Maple Leaf Court outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, dated
                      September 11, 2003, to the contract with Wildcat
137-2003  11-4-2003   Excavating & Construction, LLC dated March 7, 2003,
                      regarding the installation of drainage on Marcia Street,
                      Marcia/Pollard Street drainage project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Kentucky
139-2003  11-20-2003  Power Company d/b/a American Electric Power for electric
                      energy supplied to the water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with John and
141-2003  11-20-2003  Stephanie Krantz for the installation of a water line
                      extension on Chippawa Street in Westwood outside the city
                      limits.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employee assistance
146-2003  12-4-2003   program management agreement with Ashland Hospital
                      Corporation d/b/a UK King s Daughters for a period of
                      three years.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Carol Jean
151-2003  12-18-2003  Cieraszynski regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of an awning sign at 1627 Greenup Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Dr. Mike
152-2003  12-18-2003  Couchot regarding an encroachment for the installation of
                      landscaping at 2844 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with United
153-2003  12-18-2003  Steelworkers of America regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign at 734 Carter Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Mike Hunt
154-2003  12-18-2003  for the installation of a water line extension at 6060
                      Fellowship Court outside the city limits.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
1-2004    1-6-2004    city and Adams Robinson regarding the water treatment
                      plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
2-2004    1-6-2004    city and Adams Robinson regarding the water treatment
                      plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute service agreements
5-2004    1-6-2004    between the city and Cummins Cumberland, Inc. for service
                      and repairs to the generators located at the #2 fire
                      station on South 29th street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
6-2004    1-15-2004   city and Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the repair of a
                      road slip on Lowman Drive for the Department of Public
                      Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with J & M
17-2004   2-19-2004   Sales, Inc. for the purchase of three-fourths inch pebble
                      lime for the Department of Public Services, divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Norit
18-2004   2-19-2004   Americas, Inc. for the purchase of powdered activated
                      carbon for the Department of Public Services, Divisions
                      of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Brenntag
                      Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of liquid caustic soda,
19-2004   2-19-2004   liquid chlorine and sulfur dioxide for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and
                      Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
20-2004   2-19-2004   Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of liquid polymer for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Delta
                      Chemical Corp. for the purchase of aluminum sulfate and
21-2004   2-19-2004   poly-aluminum chloride (PAC) for the Department of Public
                      Services, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
22-2004   2-19-2004   Calciquest, Inc. for the purchase of potassium
                      permanganate for the Department of Public Services,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Chemical
23-2004   2-19-2004   Resources, Inc. for the purchase of hydrofluosilicic acid
                      for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Morton
24-2004   2-19-2004   Salt for the purchase of approximately 2,000 tons of
                      treated rock salt for ice and snow control for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 5 between the
25-2004   2-19-2004   city and Adams Robinson regarding the water treatment
                      plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for
                      the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
26-2004   2-19-2004   services for the installation of 937 linear feet of 18-
                      inch sanitary sewer line from Belmont Street to 39th
                      Street for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
27-2004   2-19-2004   city and Sutphen Corporation for service to the 2004
                      aerial platform for the Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Neptune Equipment Company for the purchase of
33-2004   3-4-2004    water meters for the measurement of cold water for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Customer
                      Service.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Badger Meter, Inc. for the purchase of water
34-2004   3-4-2004    meters for the measurement of cold water for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Customer
                      Service.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply Co., Inc. for the purchase
35-2004   3-4-2004    and installation of variable speed drives and a new
                      digital level control system for the Roberts Drive pump
                      station for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply Co., Inc. for the design
36-2004   3-18-2004   and supply of one self-contained hydropneumatic water
                      booster station with a fire water pump for the Department
                      of Public Services, Division of Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
42-2004   4-1-2004    and Allen Holbrook and Ronald Robinette for installation
                      of a water line extension.
D+>Ord.   Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
                      and RJN Group for software installation, training,
43-2004   4-1-2004    professional consulting services and data preparation for
                      an infrastructure management system for Department of
                      Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
46-2004   4-15-2004   and D & J Construction for labor and materials for
                      concrete and asphalt repair work for one year.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
                      and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for labor, materials and
47-2004   4-15-2004   equipment and services for the placement and replacement
                      of bituminous asphalt material for 2004 street paving
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
48-2004   4-15-2004   and Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for 39th
                      Street sanitary sewer project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
49-2004   4-15-2004   and Sherrill D. Morgan and Associates to provide
                      consulting services regarding the city s health insurance
                      coverage.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
53-2004   5-6-2004    and Bill Enyart & Sons Contracting, Inc. for the
                      placement and replacement of sidewalks, curbs, gutters
                      and other related work for concrete improvement program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
54-2004   5-6-2004    and Peter Kuzniewski for the conversion and transfer of
                      information/record management system data for Police
                      Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
62-2004   5-20-2004   and Ashland Bus System and Clear Channel Communications
                      for adopt-a-bus program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
63-2004   5-20-2004   and Kentucky Power Company for purchase of streetlight
                      system located within the 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 1600
                      and 1700 blocks of Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
                      and D & J Construction for labor and materials for
69-2004   6-3-2004    placement and replacement of sidewalks, curbs and other
                      related work for the Oakview Road curb and sidewalk
                      project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
70-2004   6-3-2004    and Tennis Technology, Inc. for repair of all surfaces on
                      all five tennis courts in Central Park.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between city
94-2004   7-1-2004    and Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for 39th
                      Street sanitary sewer project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute the proposal submitted
                      by Medical Benefits Administrators, Inc. regarding the
103-2004  7-1-2004    administrative fees for administering the city s health
                      insurance coverage and the stop loss application
                      administered by Medben through Mutual of Omaha.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
104-2004  7-15-2004   Salvation Army, the subrecipient of $22,886 from under a
                      grant under the emergency shelter grant program and
                      declaring an emergency.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
105-2004  7-15-2004   Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $16,457 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program and declaring an emergency.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
106-2004  7-15-2004   Pathways, Inc., the subrecipient of $6,600 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program and declaring
                      an emergency.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
107-2004  7-15-2004   Community Action Referral Services, the subrecipient of
                      $1,886 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program and declaring an emergency.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
108-2004  7-15-2004   of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of $42,171 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program and declaring
                      an emergency.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
109-2004  7-15-2004   city and Cintas Corporation for the rental of work
                      uniforms for all divisions of public services for a
                      period of three years.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 dated July
110-2004  7-15-2004   8, 2004, between the city and Southern Ohio Trenching and
                      Excavating, Inc., for a contract dated February 26, 2004
                      regarding the 39th Street sanitary sewer project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
112-2204  7-15-2004   agreement between the city and Tony Workman regarding an
                      encroachment for the installation of a freestanding sign
                      at 2836 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 6, dated May
113-2004  7-15-2004   12, 2004, between the city and Adams Robinson for a
                      contract dated April 10, 2003 regarding the Ashland water
                      treatment plant improvements/phase 11.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and River Cities Disposal for a suitable landfill
                      location for the receipt and disposal of compacted
115-2004  8-5-2004    garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish, collected by the
                      city for a period of one year in an amount not to exceed
                      $17.75 per ton for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
116-2004  8-5-2004    city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for services
                      to be provided for the repair of city-owned traffic
                      signals from July 1, 2004 to July 1, 2005.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 7, dated June
120-2004  8-5-2004    22, 2004 between the city and Adams Robinson for a
                      contract dated April 10, 2003 regarding the Ashland water
                      treatment plan improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a lease agreement
124-2004  8-19-2004   between the city and the City of Worthington, Kentucky
                      Police Department for the lease of two used police
                      vehicles.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, dated
125-2004  8-19-2004   August 13, 2004, between the city and Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for a contract dated January 16, 2004
                      regarding the Lowman Drive Slip.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 8, dated
126-2004  8-19-2004   August 11, 2004, between the city and Adams Robinson for
                      a contract dated April 10, 2003, regarding the Ashland
                      water treatment plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 9, dated
127-2004  8-19-2004   August 11, 2004, between the city and Adams Robinson for
                      a contract dated April 10, 2003, regarding the Ashland
                      water treatment plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 10, dated
128-2004  8-19-2004   August 10, 2004, between the city and Adams Robinson for
                      a contract dated April 10, 2003, regarding the Ashland
                      water treatment plant improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a grant agreement
                      between the city, the County of Boyd, the Ashland-Boyd
131-2004  9-2-2004    County Airport Board and the Federal Aviation
                      Administration for the rehabilitation of runway lighting
                      and the installation of a runway visual guidance system
                      at the Ashland-Boyd County Airport.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
132-2004  9-2-2004    city and Light s Enterprises, Inc. for all labor and
                      materials for tree trimming for a two-year period for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Accepting the proposal of ETA Engineering Consultants,
133-2004  9-2-2004    PSC in the amount of $9,500 to provide engineering
                      services for the 31st Street storm water sewer design.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an engineering services
134-2004  9-2-2004    agreement between the city and ETA Engineering
                      Consultants, PSC., retaining ETA to provide engineering
                      services for the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
137-2004  10-7-2004   Kentucky Underground for the purchase of pipe of the
                      storm water drainage project from 22nd Street to 25th
                      Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with C & D
138-2004  10-7-2004   Painting Service, Inc. for the purchase of all labor and
                      materials to clean and paint the 55th Street water tank.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Green
139-2004  10-7-2004   Valley Landfill for the removal and disposition of sludge
                      from the wastewater treatment plant for the period of one
                      year.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Taylor
143-2004  11-4-2004   Chevrolet, Inc. for the purchase of one two-ton dump
                      truck with snow removal equipment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Ashland
144-2004  11-4-2004   Bus System and Kindred Communications, Inc. for the
                      adopt-a-bus program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Ashland
145-2004  11-4-2004   Bus System and WLGC 105.7 FM for the adopt-a-bus program
                      for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Adams
159-2004  12-2-2004   Robinson regarding the Ashland water treatment plant
                      improvements/phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Service
160-2004  12-2-2004   Pump and Supply, Inc. regarding the water booster
                      station.
                      Accepting the proposal of Quest Engineers, Inc. in the
161-2004  12-2-2004   amount of $9,500 to provide engineering services for the
                      chlorine/sulphur dioxide conversion at the wastewater
                      treatment plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with D & J
169-2004  12-16-2004  Construction of Ashland Inc. regarding the Oakview Road
                      project.
171-2004  12-16-2004  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Boyd
                      County Sanitation District No. 2.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Section 125
01-2005   1-11-2005   administrative services agreement with Medical Benefits
                      Mutual Life Insurance Co.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Brenntag
10-2005   2-10-2005   Mid-South, Inc. for purchase of chemicals for Department
                      of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
11-2005   2-10-2005   Calciquest, Inc. for the purchase of chemicals for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Carbon
12-2005   2-10-2005   Activated Corp. for the purchase of chemicals for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Chemical
13-2005   2-10-2005   Resources, Inc. for the purchase of chemicals for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with CIBA
14-2005   2-10-2005   Specialty Chemicals Corp. for the purchase of chemicals
                      for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Delta
15-2005   2-10-2005   Chemical Corp. for the purchase of chemicals for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Cargill
16-2005   2-10-2005   Deicing Technology for the purchase of 2,500 tons of rock
                      salt.
25-2005   3-10-2005   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Badger
                      Meter, Inc. for the purchase of cold water meters.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
43-2005   4-7-2005    Sherrill D. Morgan and associates regarding professional
                      services in the selection of insurance coverage.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Boyd
49-2005   4-11-2005   County Ford for the purchase of a new medium duty truck
                      for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Bill
50-2005   4-11-2005   Enyart and Sons Contracting, Inc. for the concrete
                      improvement program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with D & J
51-2005   4-11-2005   Construction for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work for one year.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Mountain
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
52-2005   4-11-2005   materials, equipment and services for the placement and
                      replacement of Bituminous asphalt material for the 2005
                      street paving program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
56-2005   4-11-2005   Human Rights Commission regarding the receipt of $1,000
                      to conduct a fair housing event.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Rally
58-2005   4-25-2005   Partners, Inc. regarding sponsoring an overnight
                      promotion of the Great Race 2005.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
65-2005   5-5-2005    Ashland Bus System and Clear Channel Communications WTCR
                      for the adopt-a-bus program extending the current
                      contract.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an engineering services
67-2005   5-19-2005   agreement with Strand Associates retaining their
                      engineering services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order #1 with
68-2005   5-19-2005   Strand Associates, Inc. regarding the preparation of a
                      long-term control plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Service
                      Pump and Supply Co. Inc. for the purchase and
72-2005   5-19-2005   installation of variable speed drives and a new digital
                      level control system for the 26th Street sewer pump
                      station.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a work order with Quest
85-2005   6-2-2005    Engineers, Inc. to provide engineering services for the
                      AK Steel Corporation sewer replacement.
                      Authorizing and approving change order #15 with Adam
97-2005   6-20-2005   Robinson for a contract dated 4-10-2003 regarding the
                      Ashland water treatment plant improvements/ phase II.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with city
100-2005  6-27-2005   police officers, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge
                      #3.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
103-2005  7-7-2005    city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for services
                      to be provided for the repair of city-owned traffic
                      signals from July 1, 2005 to July 1, 2006.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with David
107-2005  7-7-2005    and Dreama Klaiber for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits at 7137 Klaiber Lane.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
109-2005  8-18-2005   city and Municipal Equipment, Inc. for the lease/purchase
                      of wheeled refuse containers.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and River Cities Disposal, LLC for a suitable
                      landfill location for the receipt and disposal of
113-2005  8-4-2005    compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish,
                      collected by the city for a period of one year in an
                      amount not to exceed $17.70 per ton for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump and Supply Co., Inc. for the design
114-2005  8-4-2005    and supply of one self-contained hydropneumatic water
                      booster station with a fire water pump for the Department
                      of Public Services, Division of Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
115-2005  8-4-2005    city and Taylor Chevrolet, Inc. for the purchase of one
                      two-ton dump truck with snow removal equipment for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
116-2005  8-4-2005    city and Boston Beanery Restaurant, Inc. regarding the
                      use of parking spaces on the city-owned parking lot at
                      17th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
118-2005  8-18-2005   city and Kelly A. McMeans regarding an encroachment for
                      the installation of a fence at 3460 Lowman Drive on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Mark and Ercel Ratliff of Ratliff Family Funeral
119-2005  8-18-2005   Home, Inc. regarding an encroachment for the installation
                      of a sign at 1220 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
120-2005  8-18-2005   city and Providence Hill, LLC regarding the development
                      of property generally known as the Providence Hill
                      Project .
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
122-2005  8-18-2005   city and Michael D. Light, regarding the roadways located
                      in the residential development known as Woodbrook
                      Subdivision .
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Don Hall GM Supercenter for the purchase of two
123-2005  8-18-2005   new full-size (one-half ton) pick-up trucks for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Parks and
                      Traffic.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
124-2005  9-1-2005    Community Action Referral Services, the subrecipient of
                      $2,500 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
125-2005  9-1-2005    Pathways, Inc., the subrecipient of $7,000 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
126-2005  9-1-2005    Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $18,000 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
127-2005  9-1-2005    Salvation Army, the subrecipient of $25,000 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
128-2005  9-1-2005    of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of $47,500 from a grant
                      under the Emergency Shelter Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a professional service
134-2005  9-1-2005    agreement between the city and Woolpert, Inc. to provide
                      professional engineering services for the Ashland Avenue
                      slip repair.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
139-2005  9-1-2005    city and Municipal Equipment, Inc. for the purchase of
                      wheeled refuse containers.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an contract between the
140-2005  9-15-2005   city and Carmichael Equipment for the purchase of one new
                      tractor/backhoe/loader for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Parks.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and D & J Construction Inc. for all labor and
141-2005  9-15-2005   materials for the placement of 300 linear feet of
                      retaining wall for the Moore Street project for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Green Valley Landfill, General Partnership, for
142-2005  9-15-2005   the removal and disposition of sludge from the city
                      wastewater treatment plant and water treatment plant for
                      a period of one year for the Department of Public
                      Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with E.B.
144-2005  9-15-2005   Lowman for the installation of a water line extension
                      outside the city limits in the Skyline Drive Subdivision.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a release and settlement
147-2005  9-15-2005   agreement between the city and Pace Local Union #5-0523
                      and AK Steel Corporation regarding property located at
                      the intersection of 40th and Jefferson Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Bill Enyart and Sons Contracting Inc. for labor,
                      material and equipment for the excavation and removal of
                      debris and for the installation of a storm sewer system,
153-2005  10-20-2005  sanitary sewer system, asphalt paving and concrete work
                      to include curbs, sidewalks, steps and retaining walls
                      for the infrastructure improvements to the 3400 block of
                      Central Avenue in the East Central Avenue area for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
161-2005  11-3-2005   between the city and municipal equipment for the purchase
                      of one new eight-cubic yard rear load packer for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Sanitation.
169-2005  11-3-2005   Amending the Section 125 flexible spending account plan
                      document as adopted by Ord. 01-2005.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement of
170-2005  11-17-2005  bituminous asphalt material for infrastructure
                      improvements to Ringo Street and certain alleys in the
                      East Central Avenue area for the Department of Planning
                      and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
172-2005  11-17-2005  Ashland Bus System and Kindred Communications, Inc. for
                      the adopt-a-bus program for advertising.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
173-2005  11-17-2005  Ashland Bus System and WLGC Radio for the adopt-a-bus
                      program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order #2 between
175-2005  11-17-2005  the city and Strand Associates, Inc. regarding the Sewer
                      System Mapping.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the
09-2006   2-16-2006   city and CMW Inc. to provide architectural and
                      engineering services for the transportation center second
                      floor renovation project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
10-2006   2-16-2006   and Southern Ohio Trenching for all labor, equipment and
                      materials necessary to repair the earthen slip on Debord
                      Hill.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
                      and Womack Development Co. for all labor, equipment and
11-2006   2-16-2006   materials necessary for the installation of a five-floor
                      supplemental stair tower for the City Building for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated
12-2006   2-16-2006   January 12, 2006, between the city and D & J Construction
                      regarding the Moore Street retaining wall project.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
17-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the
                      purchase of sulfur dioxide.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
18-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Calciquest, Inc. for the purchase of
                      potassium permanganate.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
19-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Carbon Activated Corporation for the
                      purchase of powdered activated carbon.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
20-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Chemical Resources, Inc. for the
                      purchase of hydrofluosilicic acid.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
21-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and C. I. Thornburg Co., Inc., for the
                      purchase of liquid chlorine or sand.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
22-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Delta Chemical Corp. for the
                      purchase of aluminum sulfate and poly-aluminum chloride.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
23-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and AK Steel Corporation for the
                      purchase of liquid caustic soda.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
24-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of
                      liquid polymer and polymer cationic.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
25-2006   3-2-2006    between the city and Univar USA, Inc. for the purchase of
                      sodium hypochlorite.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
                      and Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for the purchase of all
                      labor, material and equipment for the excavation and
26-2006   3-2-2006    removal of all debris, all labor, equipment and material
                      for the installation of retaining walls, curbs, curbwalks
                      and driveway entrances along the north side of the 400
                      block of Blackburn Avenue in the Pollard area.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution and submission of
                      an application in the amount of $250,000 to the Kentucky
                      Transportation Cabinet, Office of Transportation
27-2006   3-2-2006    Enhancement Programs, for the Kentucky Safe Routes to
                      School Program for sidewalk improvements in the areas of
                      Oakview and Poage Elementary Schools and Verity Middle
                      School.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
28-2006   3-16-2006   between the city and Badger Meter, Inc. for the purchase
                      of water meters for the measurement of cold water.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a memorandum
33-2006   3-16-2006   of agreement between the Kentucky Commission on Human
                      Rights and the Ashland Human Rights Commission for a $700
                      grant for the fair housing event.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 dated March
37-2006   4-6-2006    7, 2006, between the city and Bill Enyart & Sons
                      Contracting, Inc. for a contract dated November 7, 2005,
                      regarding the East Central Avenue Project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
                      and D & J Construction for the purchase of all labor and
44-2006   4-20-2006   materials placement and replacement of sidewalks, curbs,
                      gutters and other related work for the concrete
                      improvement program.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
46-2006   4-20-2006   between the city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the
                      placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the 2006 street paving program.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of task order #1
47-2006   4-20-2006   between the city and CMW, Inc. regarding the depot second
                      floor renovation and restoration project.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
54-2006   5-4-2006    between the city and Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for all
                      labor and materials for the miscellaneous concrete and
                      asphalt repair work for one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
55-2006   5-4-2006    between the city and Orr Safety Corp. for the purchase of
                      equipment for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an agreement
56-2006   5-4-2006    between the city and Don Hicks for the installation of a
                      water line extension outside the city limits on Jordan
                      Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a lease a
66-2006   6-1-2006    lease agreement with the Ashland Independent School
                      District for the lease of one used dump truck with
                      snowplow and salt spreader.
67-2006   6-1-2006    Authorizing and directing the execution an agreement with
                      AVI Foodsystems, Inc. regarding vending services.
                      Authorizing and approving a change in the contract with
69-2006   6-1-2006    Womack Development regarding the supplemental stair tower
                      at the Ashland City Building originally passed as Ord.
                      11-2006.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the
75-2006   6-22-2006   Ashland Bus System and Clear Channel Communications for
                      the adopt-a-bus program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the
78-2006   6-29-2006   Transportation Cabinet for services to be provided for
                      the repair of the city owned traffic signals from July 1,
                      2006 to July 1, 2007.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a lease
79-2006   6-29-2006   agreement with the City of Worthington, Kentucky Police
                      Department for the lease of one used police vehicle.
                      Authorizing and approving a change in the contract with
80-2006   6-29-2006   Mountain Enterprises, Inc. regarding the East Central
                      Avenue area, Ringo Street and alley paving project
                      originally passed as Ord. 170-2005.
                      Approving the renewal with Medical Benefits
87-2006   6-29-2006   Administrators, Inc. for administrative fees for the city
                      s health insurance coverage.
                      Authorizing the execution of a memorandum of agreement
89-2006   7-20-2006   with the Transportation Cabinet Department of Highways
                      regarding certain assumed obligations and
                      responsibilities for a portion of Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an agreement
92-2006   7-20-2006   with Joe Hessami for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits on Friel Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an agreement
93-2006   7-20-2006   with Clay Robbins for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits on Maple Leaf Circle.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a contract
                      with Marsh Construction Co. for the purchase of all labor
97-2006   7-20-2006   and material for the construction of a bus storage
                      building at 4130 Winchester Avenue for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of task order #3
103-2006  8-3-2006    with Strand Associates, Inc. regarding the long term
                      control plan.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with River Cities
                      Disposal, LLC for a suitable landfill location for the
                      receipt and disposal of compacted garbage and refuse,
107-2006  8-24-2006   rubble and rubbish, collected by the city for a period of
                      one year in an amount not to exceed $18.20 per ton for
                      the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Sanitation.
                      Authorizing and directing a grant agreement with the
                      County of Boyd, the Ashland-Boyd County Airport Board and
115-2006  8-24-2006   the Federal Aviation Administration for a project
                      consisting of an updated airport master plan study
                      (airport layout plan).
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of an agreement
116-2006  9-7-2006    with Bill Hillard for the installation of a water line
                      extension outside the city limits at 2785 Ohio Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a lease
                      agreement with FIVCO Area Development District, Boyd
118-2006  9-7-2006    County and Catlettsburg Office of Emergency Management
                      regarding space for the adult day care center located on
                      Blackburn Avenue.
119-2006  9-7-2006    Adopting amendment #II to the agreement with city police
                      officers, Fraternal Order of Police, Ashland Lodge #3.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a trust
120-2006  9-7-2006    participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
                      insurance general insurance trust.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Light s
121-2006  9-7-2006    Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor and
                      materials for tree trimming for a two- year period for
                      the Department of Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Green Valley
                      Landfill, General Partnership, for the removal and
126-2006  9-21-2006   disposition of sludge from the wastewater treatment plant
                      and water treatment plant for a period of one year for
                      the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the execution of a grant
                      agreement with the Kentucky Housing Corporation for the
127-2006  9-21-2006   acceptance of $5,000 to assist organizations in providing
                      safe, decent, affordable housing for low and moderate
                      income persons in order to end chronic homelessness in
                      the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
                      agreement between the city and Community Holdings of
140-2006  10-19-2006  Kentucky, LLC regarding the lease of parking spaces on
                      the city-owned parking lot at 17th Street and Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
141-2006  10-19-2006  city, the Ashland Bus System, and Kindred Communications,
                      Inc. for the adopt-a-bus program for advertising
                      purposes.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
142-2006  10-19-2006  city, the Ashland Bus System, and WLGC Radio for the
                      adopt-a-bus program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Don Hall GM Supercenter for the
143-2006  10-19-2006  purchase of one new full size, extended cab pick-up truck
                      for the Department of Public Services, Division of Animal
                      Control.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Taylor Chevrolet, Inc. for the
144-2006  10-19-2006  purchase of one two-ton dump truck with snow removal
                      equipment for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to accept and execute
145-2006  10-19-2006  the 2006 Homeland Security Grant through the Homeland
                      Security Grants Program administered by the Homeland
                      Security for the Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
151-2006  11-9-2006   agreement between the city and Dr. Andrea Evans regarding
                      the leasing of parking spaces on the city-owned parking
                      lot at 15th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Municipal Equipment Inc. for the
158-2006  12-21-2006  lease-purchase of one new full-size, 20 cubic yard, rear
                      loading packer truck for the Department of Public
                      Services, Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Central Salt, LLC for the purchase of
159-2006  12-21-2006  approximately 1,500 tons of treated rock salt for ice and
                      snow control for the Department of Public Services,
                      Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
163-2006  12-21-2006  between the city and Frontier Housing, Inc. to provide
                      developer services in connection with the Pollard Mills
                      District Focus Program Housing Project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Major League Baseball
01-2007   1-4-2007    Properties, Inc. regarding use of the trademark of signs
                      at the city limits in honor of Brandon Webb for the
                      Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
04-2007   2-1-2007    #3 between the city and KZF Design, Inc. regarding the
                      riverfront development project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
05-2007   2-1-2007    #4 between the city and Stand Associates, Inc. regarding
                      the storm sewer outfall mapping and illicit discharge
                      detection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Brenntag Mid-South Inc. for the purchase of sulfur
06-2007   2-15-2007   dioxide, sodium hypochlorite, potassium permanganate and
                      powdered activated carbon at the unit prices specified in
                      their bid for the Department of Public Services,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Chemical Resources for the purchase of
07-2007   2-15-2007   hydrofluosilicic acid at the unit prices specified in
                      their bid for the Department of Public services,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with C.I. Thornburg Co. Inc. for the purchase of liquid
08-2007   2-15-2007   chlorine or sand at the unit prices specified in their
                      bid for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
09-2007   2-15-2007   Authorizing a contract for the purchase of certain
                      chemicals for water treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
10-2007   2-15-2007   city and Morton Salt for the purchase of salt for the
                      Department of Public Services, Divisions of Water
                      Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Ashland, Inc. for the purchase of
16-2007   3-15-2007   liquid polymer at the unit prices specified in their bid
                      for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of
17-2007   3-15-2007   polymer cationic at the unit prices specified in their
                      bid for the Department of Public Services, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Don Hall GM Supercenter for the
18-2007   3-15-2007   purchase of a new, four-wheel drive vehicle for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Administration.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and home maintenance and remodeling for
19-2007   3-15-2007   the purchase of all labor and material for the removal
                      and replacement of all siding, windows and gutters for
                      selected single-family homes in the Pollard Mills
                      Neighborhood Revitalization Area.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Reynolds Enterprises, Inc. for the
                      purchase of all labor and material for the removal of all
                      existing roofing down to the roof sheathing, repair of
20-2007   3-15-2007   damaged overhang and rafter tails, replacement of up to
                      10 of damaged roof decking and installation of new
                      standard color 25-year dimensional shingles for selected
                      single-family homes in the Pollard Mills Neighborhood
                      Revitalization Area.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Service Pump and Supply Co., Inc.
29-2007   3-27-2007   for the purchase of a non-clog, wastewater pump for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Wastewater
                      Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and General Chemical Performance
30-2007   3-27-2007   Products, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate at the
                      unit prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Water Production and
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Delta Chemical Corporation for the
31-2007   3-27-2007   purchase of poly-aluminum chloride (PAC) at the unit
                      prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and
                      Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Badger Meter, Inc. for purchase of
35-2007   4-19-2007   water meters for the measurement of cold water for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Customer
                      Service.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Mike Enyart and Sons, Inc. for all
43-2007   5-3-2007    labor and materials for the miscellaneous concrete and
                      asphalt repair work for one year for the Department of
                      Public Services, Divisions of Wastewater Collection and
                      Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
48-2007   5-17-2007   agreement between the city and Buxton regarding services
                      to be provided by Buxton regarding the city s retail
                      locations.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
49-2007   5-17-2007   agreement between the city and Cartee Land Development,
                      Inc., regarding a parking and sign encroachment at 1045
                      Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
50-2007   5-17-2007   interlocal cooperation agreement between the city, Boyd
                      County and Greenup County relating to the operation and
                      management of the Ashland Regional Airport.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an AED
51-2007   5-22-2007   donation agreement between the city and Ashland Hospital
                      Corporation, Inc. d/b/a/ UK King s Daughters.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
52-2007   5-22-2007   agreement between the city and Lamar Advertising
                      regarding an electronic display board located at 1200
                      Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Municipal Equipment, Inc. for the
53-2007   5-22-2007   lease-purchase of a diesel powered municipal street
                      sweeper for the Department of Public Services, Division
                      of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
58-2007   6-5-2007    agreement between the Governor s Commission on Fire
                      Protection and the city regarding donation of exercise
                      equipment to the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
60-2007   6-26-2007   city, Ashland Bus System, and Clear Channel
                      Communications for the adopt-a-bus program.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits administrators,
                      Inc. (Medben) for administrative fees to administer the
68-2007   6-26-2007   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement and stop loss
                      coverage through HCC Life.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
                      and restated project agreement between GCG Ashland LLC,
71-2007   6-29-2007   RLG Ashland LLC and the city regarding the development of
                      parcels of property generally know as Melody Mountain
                      project phase II .
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
72-2007   6-29-2007   participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
                      Insurance Services General Insurance Trust.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a consent
85-2007   7-23-2007   judgment between the city and the Kentucky Environmental
                      Protection Agency, Division of Water.
86-2007   7-23-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Cintas Corporation.
87-2007   7-23-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Linda Dalton.
89-2007   7-23-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet.
                      Approving a grant agreement and a grant assignment and
93-2007   8-16-2007   assumption agreement between the city and Big Sandy Water
                      District.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a lease
94-2007   8-16-2007   agreement between the city and Branch Banking and Trust
                      Company.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
95-2007   8-16-2007   city and Kanawha Janitor d/b/a Professional Maintenance
                      of Ohio Valley.
96-2007   8-16-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Gary Wright.
101-2007  9-6-2007    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and River Cities Disposal, LLC.
102-2007  9-6-2007    Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Neptune Equipment Company.
103-2007  9-6-2007    Authorizing a grant assistance agreement between the city
                      and the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority.
104-2007  9-6-2007    Authorizing a grant assistance agreement between the city
                      and Kentucky Infrastructure Authority.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
105-2007  9-6-2007    agreement with Kentucky Community and Technical College
                      System (KCTCS).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
111-2007  9-20-2007   between the city and Area Charity Properties, Inc. d/b/
                      a Neighbors Helping Neighbors, and CTB, Inc.
112-2007  9-20-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Boyd County Ford, Inc.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a client
116-2007  9-25-2007   work order agreement between the city and HDR
                      Engineering, Inc.
117-2007  9-25-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with John Brown.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
119-2007  10-4-2007   agreement between the city and Ashland Hospital
                      Corporation.
120-2007  10-4-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with GWS
                      Unlimited, Inc.
121-2007  10-4-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc.
122-2007  10-4-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Service Pump & Supply Co., Inc.
123-2007  10-4-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
                      #5 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
124-2007  10-4-2007   Amending the city s Kentucky medical care plan, amendment
                      5.
127-2007  10-18-2007  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet.
128-2007  10-18-2007  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Service Pump & Supply Co., Inc.
129-2007  10-18-2007  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Marathon Oil.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
133-2007  11-1-2007   agreement between the city and the Ashland Employee
                      Credit Union.
134-2007  11-1-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Brandstetter Carroll, Inc.
136-2007  11-1-2007   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a purchase
                      agreement between the city and Sutphen Corporation.
137-2007  11-1-2007   Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, dated 10-
                      10-2007, between the city and Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a grant
138-2007  11-1-2007   agreement between the city, the Federal Home Loan Bank of
                      Cincinnati and Town Square Bank, Inc.
148-2007  12-6-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city, Ashland Bus System and WLGC Radio.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
149-2007  12-6-2007   city and Morton International, Inc., Morton Salt
                      Division.
150-2007  12-6-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Green Valley Landfill, General Partnership.
156-2007  12-20-2007  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Taylor Chevrolet, Inc.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employee assistance
1-2008    1-3-2008    program management agreement between the city and Ashland
                      Hospital Corporation d/b/a UK King s Daughters.
4-2008    1-17-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a consulting services
                      agreement between the city and Capital Access, Inc.
5-2008    2-7-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city, Ashland Bus System and Kindred Communications, Inc.
6-2008    2-7-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc.
7-2008    2-7-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order #4 between
                      the city and KZF Design, Inc.
9-2008    2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and R & S Enterprises, Inc.
10-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Brenntag
                      Mid-South, Inc.
11-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute with Delta Chemical
                      Corporation.
12-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with General
                      Chemical Performance Products, LLC.
13-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with AK Steel
                      Corporation.
14-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Morton Salt.
15-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
                      Polydyne, Inc.
16-2008   2-21-2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Univar
                      USA, Inc.
21-2008   3-6-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Badger Meter, Inc.
22-2008   3-6-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with C.I.
                      Thornburg Co., Inc.
24-2008   3-6-2008    Amending the city s medical care plan, amendment 6.
25-2008   3-6-2008    Amending the city s medical care plan, Fire Department
                      union plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
28-2008   3-20-2008   agreement between the city and the City of Bowling Green,
                      Kentucky.
33-2008   4-3-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Taylor Chevrolet, Inc.
34-2008   4-3-2008    Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Harbor Hill, LLLP.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
47-2008   5-15-2008   agreement between the Ashland Bus System and Clear
                      Channel Communications for the adopt-a-bus program for
                      advertising.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
49-2008   5-15-2008   with Taylor Chevrolet, Inc. for the lease/purchase of a
                      bucket truck for the Department of Public Services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
50-2008   5-15-2008   municipal lease and option agreement between the city and
                      Republic First National Corporation for on a Sutphen
                      custom engine rescue pumper for the Fire Department.
65-2008   6-23-2008   Adopting amendment 7 to the Ashland, Kentucky medical
                      care plan.
66-2008   6-23-2008   Adopting amendment 4 to the Ashland, Kentucky medical
                      care plan, Fire Department union plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
67-2008   6-23-2008   participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
                      Insurance Services General Insurance Trust.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a grant
68-2008   6-23-2008   agreement for acquiring land for development at the
                      Ashland-Boyd County Airport.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
69-2008   6-23-2008   #7 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc. regarding
                      the combined sewer overflow long-term control plan.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
70-2008   6-23-2008   city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc.
                      regarding the sanitary sewer line replacement alongside
                      AK Steel Coke Plant.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Professional
79-2008   8-21-2008   Maintenance of Ohio Valley for weekly janitorial services
                      for the city building.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and River Cities
85-2008   9-4-2008    Disposal, LLC for a suitable landfill location for the
                      receipt and disposal of compacted garbage and refuse,
                      rubble and rubbish.
90-2008   9-18-2008   Authorizing a contract with Community Assistance and
                      Referral Service, Inc.
91-2008   9-18-2008   Authorizing a contract with Safe Harbor of Northeast
                      Kentucky, Inc.
92-2008   9-18-2008   Authorizing a contract with the Salvation Army.
93-2008   9-18-2008   Authorizing a contract with Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Wooten
94-2008   9-18-2008   Group LLC d/b/a Miss Got Rocks regarding an encroachment
                      for the paint of a portion of the city s sidewalk at 317
                      15th Street.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and the
99-2008   9-18-2008   Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for services to be
                      provided for the repair of city-owned traffic signals
                      from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2009.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Prichard
102-2008  10-2-2008   Lawncare, Inc. for the purchase of all labor and
                      materials for tree trimming for a two-year period for the
                      Department of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city, Ashland Bus
103-2008  10-16-2008  System and Kindred Communications, Inc. for the adopt-a-
                      bus program for advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city, Ashland Bus
104-2008  10-16-2008  System, and WLGC radio for the adopt-a-bus program for
                      advertising purposes.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Green Valley
                      Landfill, General Partnership, for the removal and
112-2008  11-20-2008  disposition of sludge from the City of Ashland wastewater
                      treatment plant and water treatment plant for a period of
                      one year for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Morton
                      International, Inc., Morton Salt Division, for the
113-2008  11-20-2008  purchase of approximately 1,500 tons of treated rock salt
                      for ice and snow control for the Department of Public
                      Works, Division of Streets.
                      Execute and agreement between the city and Bob and Nancy
118-2008  12-4-2008   Tilton (Katie s Corner) regarding an encroachment for
                      outdoor dining at 1450 Greenup Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Approving a lease for the financing of a public project
                      in a maximum principal amount not to exceed $5,000,000;
119-2008  12-4-2008   providing for the payment and security of the lease;
                      directing the maintenance of the heretofore created
                      sinking fund as security for the lease; and authorizing
                      the execution of various documents related to such lease.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Trace Creek
120-2008  12-4-2008   Construction, Inc. for the construction of a police
                      station at 17th Street and Greenup Avenue.
3-2009    2-5-2009    Adopting the Kentucky medical care plan, amendment 8, as
                      adopted by Ord. 103-2004.
                      Amending the city Kentucky medical care plan, Fire
7-2009    2-19-2009   Department union plan, amendment 5, as adopted by Ord.
                      103-2004.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Brenntag
                      Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of potassium
14-2009   3-5-2009    permanganate, sodium hypochlorite and liquid chlorine at
                      the unit prices specified in their bid for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Water
                      Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Carbon
                      Activated Corporation for the purchase of powdered
15-2009   3-5-2009    activated carbon at the unit prices specified in their
                      bid for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with C.I.
                      Thornburg Co., Inc. for the purchase of sulfur dioxide,
16-2009   3-5-2009    sand and hydrofluosilicic acid at the unit prices
                      specified in their bid for the Department of Public
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Delta
                      Chemical Corporation for the purchase of poly-aluminum
17-2009   3-5-2009    chloride (PAC) at the unit prices specified in their bid
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with General
                      Chemical Performance Products, LLC for the purchase of
18-2009   3-5-2009    aluminum sulfate at the unit prices specified in their
                      bid for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with AK Steel
                      Corporation for the purchase of liquid caustic soda at
19-2009   3-5-2009    the unit process specified in their bid for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
20-2009   3-5-2009    city and Morton Salt for the purchase of Salt for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of liquid
21-2009   3-5-2009    polymer and cationic polymer at the unit prices specified
                      in their bid for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Badger Meter, Inc. for the purchase of water
25-2009   3-19-2009   meters for the measurement of cold water for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Meter Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Boyd County Ford, Inc. for the lease/purchase of
26-2009   3-19-2009   one new medium duty truck with a mounted 185 CFM air
                      compressor for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Division of Water distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for
                      the purchase and installation of two new submersible dry-
27-2009   3-19-2009   pit pumps and control upgrades for the 10th Street pump
                      station and the removal of existing pumps and associated
                      equipment for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
31-2009   4-2-2009    city and Smith Contractors, Inc. for the construction of
                      the Ashland Riverfront improvements, phase I, at the
                      price specified in their bid.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Mike
32-2009   4-2-2009    Enyart & Sons, Inc. for the concrete improvement program
                      for the city, Department of Public Works, Division of
                      Streets, at the prices specified in their bid.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Mark Morris Contracting for all labor and
33-2009   4-2-2009    materials for the miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work for one year for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Collection and Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and the Kentucky Department of Military Affairs,
37-2009   4-2-2009    Division of Emergency Management for public assistance
                      grant funds to assist with damages as a result of the ice
                      storm on January 26, 2009.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a professional
                      engineering services agreement between the city and PND
40-2009   4-17-2009   Engineers, Inc. to provide construction assistance during
                      the bidding, material acquisition, fabrication and
                      installation of the Open Cell bulkhead for the Riverfront
                      Development Project.
                      Accepting the proposal of Triad Engineering, Inc. in the
41-2009   4-17-2009   amount of $24,640 to provide construction phase materials
                      testing on the police station project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and
42-2009   4-17-2009   replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2009
                      street paving program for the city, Department of Public
                      Works, Division of Streets.
43-2009   4-17-2009   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Carter and Theresia Gussler regarding an
47-2009   5-21-2009   encroachment for the construction of a garage at 2016
                      Lexington Avenue on the city s right-of-way of 21st
                      Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
48-2009   5-21-2009   city and John and Kelly McMeans regarding an enforcement
                      for parking and landscaping at 2900 Carter Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way of Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and General Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. for
49-2009   5-21-2009   the labor, materials and equipment to install heat/air in
                      the lobby of the Historic Freight Depot located at 99
                      15th Street for the Department of Public Works.
                      Authorizing and approving a work order between the city
50-2009   5-21-2009   and HDR Engineering, Inc. for the grinder pump station
                      replacement project
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and U.S. Bearing and Power Transmission Corp. for
57-2009   6-2-2009    the purchase of an aerator gearbox for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Wastewater
                      Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc. for
58-2009   6-2-2009    the Putnam Street sanitary sewer improvements for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and C.I. Thornburg to furnish, install, program and
59-2009   6-2-2009    place into successful operation nine flow meters and
                      three rain gauges for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Municipal Equipment, Inc. for the lease-purchase
61-2009   6-2-2009    of one full-size, 20 cubic yard, rear loading packer
                      truck for the Department of Public Works, Division of
                      Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Evapar, Inc. for the purchase of one each,
70-2009   6-18-2009   emergency generator for the 10th Street and Roberts Drive
                      sewer pump stations for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Utility Service Co., Inc. to provide labor,
71-2009   6-18-2009   materials and equipment to clean and paint the Turner
                      Street elevated tank and the Hogsten Drive tank for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract for
80-2009   6-29-2009   professional services with Frontier Housing, Inc. to
                      provide developer services such as income verification
                      and construction management services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
                      Community Assistance and Referral Service, Inc. (CAReS)
81-2009   6-29-2009   to provide true centralized case management and
                      centralized system tracking via HMIS under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
82-2009   6-29-2009   Harbor for maintenance and operation of shelter or
                      transitional housing facility under the emergency shelter
                      grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
83-2009   6-29-2009   Salvation Army for maintenance and operation of shelter
                      or transitional housing facility under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
84-2009   6-29-2009   of Hope, Inc. for maintenance and operation of shelter or
                      transitional housing facility under the emergency shelter
                      grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Service
85-2009   6-29-2009   Pump & Supply Co., Inc. for purchase of two wastewater
                      sludge pumps for Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Division of wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Jack
                      Doheny Supplies, Inc. for labor, materials and equipment
86-2009   6-29-2009   to retrofit a camera truck with new equipment for
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Boyd
102-2009  8-6-2009    County Sanitation District No. 4; repealed by Ord. 57-
                      2018.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Housing Assistance
104-2009  8-6-2009    Payments Contract with Harbor Hill, LLLP regarding
                      vouchers to serve domestic violence victims.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with River
111-2009  9-3-2009    Cities Disposal, LLC for the receipt and disposal of
                      compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish for
                      period of one year.
112-2009  9-3-2009    Authorizing contract with E.H. Wachs.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a grant agreement with
129-2009  9-17-2009   Kentucky Housing Corporation under Kentucky Hearth Grant
                      Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
130-2009  9-17-2009   Community Action Referral Services (CARES) for utility
                      assistance under Kentucky Hearth Grant - 2009-2012
                      Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
131-2009  9-17-2009   Harbor of Northeast Kentucky to hire two full-time
                      housing counselors under Kentucky Hearth Grant - 2009-
                      2012 Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
132-2009  9-17-2009   Salvation Army of Ashland for a utility and utility
                      deposit assistance program under Kentucky Hearth Grant -
                      2009-2012 Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
133-2009  9-17-2009   of Hope for a rental assistance program and case
                      management under Kentucky Hearth Grant - 2009-2012
                      Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Tech
137-2009  10-1-2009   Coat, Inc. for filter media replacement for Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Water Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
138-2009  10-1-2009   Kentucky State Police to establish a Kentucky State
                      Police Drug Task Force.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a public transportation
150-2009  11-5-2009   grant agreement with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for
                      matching funds for the Ashland Bus System.
                      Adopting Kentucky medical care plan amendment 9 and the
151-2009  11-5-2009   City of Ashland medical care plan, Fire Department union
                      plan, amendment 6.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute contract with Area
165-2009  12-3-2009   Charity Properties, Inc. and Corder Builders for purchase
                      of labor and materials for improvements to building
                      located at 2500 Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
02-2010   1-12-2010   Greyhound Lines, Inc. allowing the city to sell of
                      Greyhound tickets at the Ashland Transportation Center.
18-2010   1-12-2010   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Brenntag
                      Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of chemicals.
19-2010   3-4-2010    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Carbon
                      Activated Corp. for purchase of chemicals.
20-2010   3-4-2010    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with C.I.
                      Thornburg Co., Inc. for purchase of chemicals.
21-2010   3-4-2010    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Delta
                      Chemical Corp. for the purchase of chemicals.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with General
22-2010   3-4-2010    Chemical Performance Products, LLC for the purchase of
                      chemicals.
23-2010   3-4-2010    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with AK Steel
                      Corporation for the purchase of chemicals.
24-2010   3-4-2010    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Morton
                      Salt for the purchase of salt.
25-2010   3-4-2010    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
                      Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of chemicals.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
38-2010   4-15-2010   city and Boyd County Ford, Inc. for the purchase of two
                      new 2010 one-ton dump trucks with snow removal equipment
                      for the Department of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
39-2010   4-15-2010   city and Boyd County Ford, Inc. for the purchase of a new
                      three-fourths-ton, 4 x 4 pickup truck for the Department
                      of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and C.I. Thornburg Company, Inc. for the purchase of
40-2010   4-15-2010   water meters for the measurement of cold water for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Meter Services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
41-2010   4-15-2010   city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2010
                      street paving program for the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
42-2010   4-15-2010   city and Service Pump and Supply Co., Inc. for the
                      purchase of one 600 h.p. motor for a high service pump.
43-2010   4-15-2010   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with UK
                      King s Daughters regarding an encroachment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Municipal Equipment, Inc. for the lease-purchase
47-2010   5-6-2010    of one full-size, 2010, 20 cubic yard, rear loading
                      packer truck for the Department of Public Works, Division
                      of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and BLK Construction, LLC for all labor and
57-2010   6-17-2010   materials for the miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work for up to one year for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Collection and Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
58-2010   6-17-2010   city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for services
                      to be provided for the repair of city-owned traffic
                      signals from July 1, 2010 to June 30, 2011.
                      Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement between
60-2010   6-17-2010   the city and the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority to
                      provide $6,000,000 of loan funds for wastewater system
                      improvements.
                      Approving a lease for the financing of a project;
62-2010   6-17-2010   providing for the payment and security of the lease;
                      creating a sinking fund.
72-2010   6-24-2010   Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute of a contract between
                      the city, Neighbors Helping Neighbors and Heritage Fire
74-2010   7-15-2010   Protection, Inc. for the purchase of all labor and
                      materials to perform all work required for the combined
                      overall complete construction of a sprinkler system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with BLK
75-2010   8-5-2010    Construction LLC, for the concrete improvement program
                      for the city, Department of Engineering and Utilities at
                      the prices specified in their bid.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
79-2010   8-19-2010   Community Assistance and Referral Service, Inc. the
                      subrecipient of $11,097 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
80-2010   8-19-2010   Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $12,462 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
81-2010   8-19-2010   Salvation Army, the subrecipient of $6,000 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
82-2010   8-19-2010   of Hope, Inc. the subrecipient of $14,441 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Area Charity Properties, Inc., Neighbors Helping
83-2010   8-19-2010   Neighbors and Corder Builders, Inc. for the purchase of
                      all labor and materials to perform all work required for
                      the combined overall complete construction of the
                      dressing room in the Ashland Area Charities building.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a trust participation
86-2010   8-19-2010   agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance
                      Services General Insurance Trust.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and River Cities Disposal, LLC for a suitable
                      landfill location for the receipt and disposal of
87-2010   9-2-2010    compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish,
                      collected by the city for a period of one year in an
                      amount not to exceed $17.50 per ton for the Department of
                      Public Works.
88-2010   9-2-2010    Authorizing a contract between the city and River Cities
                      Disposal.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Cintas Corporation for the rental of work
89-2010   9-2-2010    uniforms for a period of three years for the Departments
                      of Public Works, Engineering and Utilities, Parks and
                      Recreation and Code Enforcement.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
92-2010   9-16-2010   city and Prichard Lawncare, Inc. for the purchase of all
                      labor and materials for the Department of Public Works,
                      Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city, the Housing Authority of Ashland and Mark Morris
93-2010   9-2-2010    Contracting for the purchase of all equipment, labor and
                      materials to construct 20 additional parking spaces at
                      901 Kilgore Drive.
                      Authorizing and approving change no. 5 between the city
94-2010   9-16-2010   and Smith Contractors, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Riverfront Project authorized by Ord. 31-2009.
96-2010   9-16-2010   Adopting the Kentucky medical care plan, amendment 11
                      adopted by Ord. 103-2004.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and State
105-2010  11-4-2010   Equipment, Inc. for the purchase of a new 50,000 lb.
                      construction trailer for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing a contract with Morton International Inc. for
113-2010  11-18-2010  the purchase of approximately 1,500 tons of treated rock
                      salt for the Department of Public Works, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing task order #10 between the city and Strand
114-2010  11-18-2010  Associates, Inc. regarding the combined sewer overflow
                      long term control plan for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities, amending Ord. 67-2005.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Rumpke for
                      the removal and disposition of sludge from the city
120-2010  12-2-2010   wastewater treatment plant and water treatment plant for
                      a period of one year for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and C.J. Hughes
2-2011    1-6-2011    Construction Co., Inc. for the Roberts Drive and 6th
                      Street pump station improvements for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Clay
3-2011    1-6-2011    Pipeline, Inc. for the Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump
                      station improvements for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing a license agreement between the city and the
4-2011    1-6-2011    American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers
                      (ASCAP) regarding the city s right to perform member
                      works.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Kentucky
5-2011    1-20-2011   Power Company for electric energy supplied to the water
                      treatment plant for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing a professional services agreement between the
6-2011    1-20-2011   city and E.L. Robinson Engineering Company, Inc. for the
                      Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump station improvement
                      project within the city.
                      Authorizing an employee assistance program management
                      agreement between the city and Ashland Hospital
7-2011    1-20-2011   Corporation d/b/a UK King s Daughters for a period of
                      three years beginning January 1, 2011 as a continuation
                      of the agreement beginning January 1, 2004 adopted by
                      Ord. 146-2003.
                      Authorizing amendment #1 in the amount of $95,462 to task
                      order #9 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
9-2011    1-20-2011   regarding the combined sewer overflow long term control
                      plan Sixth Street and Roberts Drive pump station
                      improvements for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
10-2011   1-20-2011   city and CTB, Inc. for a contract regarding the first
                      floor renovation of the City Building.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
11-2011   1-20-2011   city and Clay Pipeline, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump station improvements.
                      Authorizing a continuing engineering services agreement
                      between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc. for
12-2011   2-3-2011    professional services regarding the water system and
                      sewer system improvement projects for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing task order 2011-01 between the city and HDR
13-2011   2-3-2011    Engineering, Inc. regarding the water treatment plant
                      energy evaluation not to exceed $2,500.
                      Authorizing task order 2011-02 between the city and HDR
14-2011   2-3-2011    Engineering, Inc. regarding the 37th Street pump station
                      and force main improvements not to exceed $245,815.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
18-2011   2-17-2011   city and CTB, Inc. for a contract regarding the first
                      floor renovation of the city building.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Fields
19-2011   2-17-2011   Excavating, Inc. for the Williams Creek booster pump
                      station improvements for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Community
21-2011   3-3-2011    Hospice regarding an encroachment for landscaping, the
                      installation of a wall, walks, steps and parking at 15th
                      Street and Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing a contract with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for
                      the purchase of liquid caustic soda, potassium
22-2011   3-3-2011    permanganate, sulfur dioxide and liquid chlorine at the
                      unit prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Water Production
                      and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing a contract with Carbon Activated Corporation
                      for the purchase of powdered activated carbon at the unit
23-2011   3-3-2011    prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing a contract with C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc. for
                      the purchase of sand, hydrofluosilicic acid and sodium
24-2011   3-3-2011    hypochlorite at the unit prices specified in their bid
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing a contract with Delta Chemical Corporation
                      for the purchase of ploy-aluminum chloride (PAC) at the
25-2011   3-3-2011    unit prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing a contract with General Chemical Performance
                      Products, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate at the
26-2011   3-3-2011    unit prices specified in their bid for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Water Production
                      and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing a contract with Ashland Hercules Water
                      Technologies, Hercules Inc., for the purchase of liquid
27-2011   3-3-2011    polymer at the unit prices specified in their bid for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing a contract with Polydyne, Inc. for the
                      purchase of cationic polymer at the unit prices specified
28-2011   3-3-2011    in their bid for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and BLK
                      Construction, LLC for all labor and materials for the
29-2011   3-3-2011    miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair work for up to
                      one year for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Collection and Water
                      Distribution.
                      Authorizing a lease agreement between the city and River
40-2011   3-29-2011   Cities Harvest for the lease of one 1995 Ford Pickup
                      Truck.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
47-2011   5-5-2011    city and Clay Pipeline, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Robert s Drive and 6th Street pump station improvements
                      (contract 2-2010).
                      Authorizing a purchase agreement between the city and
48-2011   5-5-2011    Sutphen Corporation for the purchase of a custom fire
                      pumper apparatus for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and C.J. Hughes
                      Construction Co. Inc. for the 39th Street sewer
49-2011   5-5-2011    improvements sewer improvements for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Wastewater
                      Collection.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and John B.
50-2011   5-5-2011    Christie regarding the leasing of parking spaces north of
                      the floodwall and west of the depot property.
                      Authorizing change order no. 1 dated May 3, 2011 between
56-2011   6-2-2011    the city and Fields Excavating, Inc. for a contract
                      regarding the Williams Creek Booster Station.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
57-2011   6-2-2011    city and Geoff Riffe Construction for a contract
                      regarding the Shelter of Hope adaptable/handicap
                      accessible project.
                      Authorizing a contract with Community Action Referral
59-2011   6-2-2011    Services (CARES), the subrecipient of $19,900 from a
                      modification to the grant under the Kentucky Hearth Grant
                      2009-2012 Program.
                      Authorizing a contract with Shelter of Hope, the
60-2011   6-2-2011    subrecipient of $38,600 from a modification to the grant
                      under the Kentucky Hearth Grant 2009-2012 Program.
                      Adopting the Kentucky medical care plan, amendment 12 and
66-2011   6-16-2011   the city s medical care plan, Fire Department union plan,
                      amendment 7, as adopted by 103-2004 as previously
                      amended.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MedBen) for administrative fees to administer the
67-2011   6-16-2011   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through HCC Life.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Blacktop Industries and Equipment
76-2011   7-21-2011   Company of the placement and replacement of bituminous
                      asphalt material for the 2011 street paving program for
                      the city, Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Newtech Systems, Inc. for the
77-2011   7-21-2011   purchase of all labor, equipment and materials for a
                      camera security system for the port of Ashland Riverfront
                      and the historic depot/transportation center for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
78-2011   7-21-2011   city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for services
                      to be provided for the repair of city owned traffic
                      signals from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
87-2011   8-4-2011    with Community Assistance and Referral Service, Inc. the
                      subrecipient of $17,755 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
88-2011   8-4-2011    with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $23,245 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
89-2011   8-4-2011    with the Salvation Army, the subrecipient of $15,555 from
                      a grant under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
90-2011   8-4-2011    with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of $23,245
                      from a grant under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and CTB, Inc. for the roof and
                      structural renovation of 1525 Winchester Avenue, also
93-2011   8-4-2011    known as the Nobil Shoes Building, at a cost not to
                      exceed $175,000, funded by the City Department of
                      Economic Development through a Department of Housing and
                      Urban Development (HUS) community development block grant
                      (CDBG) for program year 2011.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
                      participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
96-2011   8-18-2011   insurance services general insurance trust and a
                      declaration of trust and trust participation agreement
                      for the Kentucky League of Cities Workers Compensation
                      Trust.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
97-2011   8-18-2011   #12 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
                      regarding the combined sewer overflow long term control
                      plan for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city, Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.
                      and AU Construction, LLC for the purchase of all
101-2011  9-1-2011    equipment, labor and materials to completely renovate a
                      kitchen and dining facility for safe harbor funded in
                      part by the Department of Economic Development through a
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development community
                      development block grant for program year 2010.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
110-2011  9-15-2011   city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump
                      station improvements (Contract 1-2010).
                      Authoring a contract with BLK Construction, LLC for the
111-2011  9-15-2011   concrete improvement program for the city Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, at the prices specified in
                      their bid.
                      Authorizing a contract with River Cities Disposal, LLC
                      for a suitable landfill location for the receipt and
112-2011  9-15-2011   disposal of compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and
                      rubbish, collected by the city for one year in an amount
                      not to exceed $17.50 per ton for the Department of Public
                      Works, Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing an amended contract with Community Assistance
114-2011  10-6-2011   and Referral Services (CARES), the subrecipient of an
                      additional $7,000 from a modification to the grant under
                      the Kentucky Hearth Grant Program.
                      Authorizing an amended contract with Salvation Army of
115-2011  10-6-2011   Ashland, the subrecipient of funds under the Kentucky
                      Hearth Grant Program, decreasing funding in the amount of
                      $7,000.
                      Authorizing a contract with BLK Construction, LLC for all
                      labor and materials for the miscellaneous concrete and
117-2011  10-20-2011  asphalt repair work for up to one year for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Collection and Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing a contract with Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc. for
                      the purchase of all labor, material and equipment
119-2011  11-3-2011   regarding the installation of a retaining wall, curbs and
                      curbwalk along the northern side of West Central Avenue
                      halfway up Riverhill Drive for the Department of Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
122-2011  11-17-2011  city and Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc. for a contract
                      regarding the retaining wall, curbs and curbwalk along
                      Riverhill Drive.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
123-2011  11-17-2011  city and Clay Pipeline, Inc. for a contract regarding the
                      Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump station improvements
                      (Contract 2-2010).
                      Authorizing a contract with Rumpke for the removal and
124-2011  11-17-2011  disposition of sludge from the city s wastewater and
                      water treatment plants for one year for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
126-2011  11-17-2011  city and Fields Excavating, Inc. for a contract regarding
                      the Williams Creek Booster Station.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
127-2011  11-17-2011  city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the 39th Street sewer project.
                      Authorizing a contract with Cargill Deicing Technology
128-2011  11-17-2011  for the purchase of 1,500 tons of treated rock salt for
                      the Department of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Adopting the Ashland, Kentucky medical care plan,
                      amendment 13 and Fire Department union plan, amendment
129-2011  11-17-2011  10, as previously adopted and amended, and amending the
                      health reimbursement plan document and flexible benefit
                      plan document.
                      Amending Appendix L, Travel Regulations, of the policies
9-2012    1-19-2012   and procedures, compensation plan and classification
                      plan.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
10-2012   2-2-2012    city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the Roberts Drive and 6th Street pump
                      station improvements (Contract 1-2010).
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Ashland Hercules
                      Water Technologies, Hercules, Inc., for the purchase of
14-2012   2-16-2012   liquid polymer at the unit prices specified in their bid
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division
                      of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Brenntag Mid-
                      South, Inc., for the purchase of potassium permanganate
15-2012   2-16-2012   at the unit prices specified in their bid for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with C.I. Thornburg
                      Co., Inc. for the purchase of sand, hydrofluosilicic
16-2012   2-16-2012   acid, powdered activated carbon, liquid chlorine and
                      sulfur dioxide at the unit prices specified in their bid
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division
                      of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with K.A. Steel
                      Chemicals, Inc. for the purchase of liquid caustic soda
17-2012   2-16-2012   and sodium hypochlorite at the unit prices specified in
                      their bid for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Polydyne, Inc.
                      for the purchase of cationic polymer at the unit prices
18-2012   2-16-2012   specified in their bid for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and
                      Water Production.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with USALCO, LLC for
                      the purchase of aluminum sulfate and poly-aluminum
19-2012   2-16-2012   chloride at the unit prices specified in their bid for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Mountain
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and replacement of
20-2012   2-16-2012   bituminous asphalt material for the balance of the 2011
                      street paving program for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
23-2012   3-1-2012    Adopting amendment 14 to the medical care plan and
                      amendment 11 to the Fire Department union plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
                      Pinkerton Drilling, Inc. to furnish and install piling
28-2012   5-3-2012    and cribbing to stabilize the failed embankment along the
                      access road to Debord Hill Water Tower for the Department
                      of Public Works, Division of Streets in the amount of
                      $39,995.
                      Amending Ord. 17-2012 which authorized a contract with
                      K.A. Steel Chemicals, Inc. for the purchase of liquid
41-2012   6-21-2012   caustic soda and sodium hypochlorite for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities, Division of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production, by removing the purchase
                      of liquid caustic soda from the contract.
                      Authorizing and directing the mayor to execute a contract
                      with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purpose of liquid
42-2012   6-21-2012   caustic soda at the unit prices specified in their bid
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MEDBEN) for administrative fees to administer the
47-2012   6-21-2012   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through HCC Life.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
55-2012   6-27-2012   agreement with Ronald G. and Patricia A. Robinette for
                      the installation of a water line extension outside the
                      city limits on Rolling Mills Lane.
58-2012   8-2-2012    Amending the authorized positions of the policies and
                      procedures, compensation plan and classification plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
                      participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
59-2012   8-2-2012    Insurance Services General Insurance Trust and a
                      declaration of trust and trust participation agreement
                      for the Kentucky League of Cities Workers Compensation
                      Trust.
                      Authoring and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      engineering services agreement between the city and
60-2012   8-2-2012    Summit Engineering, Inc. to provide engineering and
                      consulting services for FEMA required floodwall
                      certification and other required services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
61-2012   8-2-2012    #1 between the city and Summit Engineering, Inc.
                      regarding the floodwall certification in the amount of
                      $87,000.
                      Designating the city as a participant in the Boyd County
64-2012   9-6-2012    Solid Waste Management Area; approving the Boyd County
                      solid waste management plan; and authorizing the Mayor to
                      execute said plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of
67-2012   9-20-2012   all labor and materials for tree trimming for a two-year
                      period for the Department of Public Works, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the city s
68-2012   9-20-2012   CAPER for program year 2011 for the Department of
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and River Cities Disposal, LLC for a suitable
                      landfill location for the receipt and disposal of
69-2012   10-4-2012   compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish,
                      collected by the city for a period of one year in an
                      amount not to exceed $17.50 per ton for the Department of
                      Public Works, Division of Sanitation.
                      Accepting an award of $40,000 from the Kentucky Housing
                      Corporation from the 2011 emergency solutions grant
                      program, phase II funding, to be distributed to the
70-2012   10-4-2012   Shelter of Hope, Community Assistance and Referral
                      Service and the city for administrative fees and
                      directing the Mayor to execute any and all documents
                      relating to said grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
71-2012   10-4-2012   with Community Assistance Referral Service, Inc. the
                      subrecipient of $5,000 from a grant under the emergency
                      solutions grant program, 2001 phase II funding.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
72-2012   10-4-2012   with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of #33,500
                      from a grant under the emergency solutions grant program,
                      2011 phase II funding.
                      Adopting the revised job description for assisted housing
                      specialist in the Department of Finance, Division of
73-2012   10-4-2012   Section 8 Voucher/Ashland Bus System and amending the
                      authorized positions of the policies and procedures,
                      compensation plan and classification plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Mountain Enterprises, Inc., for placement and
76-2012   10-18-2012  replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2012/
                      2013 street paving program for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with BLK Construction, LLC, for miscellaneous concrete
77-2012   10-18-2012  and asphalt repair work for up to one year, for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Collection and Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment to the agreement with GCG Ashland LLC, RLG
79-2012   10-18-2012  Ashland LLC, and the city regarding the development of
                      parcels of property generally known as Melody Mountain
                      project phase II , as adopted by Ord. 71-2007.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
80-2012   11-1-2012   no. 14 in the contract, authorized by Ord. 67-2005, with
                      Strand Associates, Inc., to provide an Asset Inventory
                      Report as required by the Division of Water.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, Department of
81-2012   11-1-2012   Highways, covering the relocation and/or adjustment of
                      water lines for the bridge replacement and approaches on
                      KY 168 over Keys Creek.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
82-2012   11-15-2012  with Morton Salt, Inc. for the purchase of treated rock
                      salt for the Department of Public Works, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
85-2012   12-6-2012   amendment to the city s flexible benefit plan as adopted
                      by Ord. 129-2011.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
86-2012   12-6-2012   with Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc. for the concrete
                      improvement program for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
87-2012   12-6-2012   with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the removal and
                      disposition of sludge from the city s wastewater
                      treatment plant and water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the amended
8-2013    1-17-2013   CAPER for program year 2011 for the Department of
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional services agreement with Taylor Siefker
9-2013    1-17-2013   Williams Design Group LLC for the preparation of a
                      comprehensive plan for the Department of Planning and
                      Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
10-2013   1-17-2013   no. 1 to task order 2011-02 with HDR Engineering
                      regarding the 37th Street pump station and force main
                      improvements.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreed
20-2013   2-21-2013   order with the Commonwealth of Kentucky Energy and
                      Environment Cabinet, Division of Enforcement, regarding
                      violations at the water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of poly-
                      aluminum chloride, powdered activated carbon, liquid
21-2013   2-21-2013   caustic soda, sulfur dioxide, hydrofluosilicic acid and
                      liquid chlorine for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Division of Water Production and Wastewater
                      Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
22-2013   2-21-2013   with C. I. Thornburg Co., Inc. for the purchase of sand
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of cationic polymer
23-2013   2-21-2013   and liquid polymer for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Univar USA, Inc. for the purchase of potassium
24-2013   2-21-2013   permanganate and sodium hypochlorite for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
25-2013   2-21-2013   with USALCO, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
51-2013   6-6-2013    #2 with Summit Engineering, Inc. regarding the floodwall
                      certification in the amount of $81,000.
52-2013   6-6-2013    Amending the city s medical care plan, as adopted by Ord.
                      103, 2004, as previously amended.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
54-2013   6-6-2013    agreement with the Ashland Area Convention and Visitors
                      Bureau regarding the leasing of parking spaces on the
                      city-owned parking lot at 15th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 with C.J.
56-2013   6-12-2013   Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a contract regarding
                      the Roberts Drive and 6th Street Pump Station
                      Improvements (Contract 1-2010).
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MedBen) for administrative fees to administer the
60-2013   6-12-2013   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through HCC Life.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
77-2013   8-8-2013    agreement with Big Sandy Water District to furnish
                      potable water for distribution and sale within its water
                      distribution system boundaries.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
                      participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
78-2013   8-8-2013    Insurance Services General Insurance Trust and a
                      declaration of trust and trust participation agreement
                      for the Kentucky League of Cities Workers Compensation
                      Trust.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute task order # 16 with
81-2013   8-22-2013   Strand Associates, Inc. to provide a response to comments
                      on the long term control plan for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the city s
98-2013   9-26-2013   consolidated annual performance and evaluation report
                      (CAPER) for program year 2012 for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 with Mike
100-2013  9-26-2013   Enyart & Sons, Inc. regarding the 37th Street lift
                      station improvements (contract #2).
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 with Mike
106-2013  10-24-2013  Enyart & Sons, Inc. regarding the 37th Street lift
                      station improvements (contract # 2).
                      Amending the contract with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
108-2013  10-31-2013  adopted by Ord. 67-2013 regarding phase I CDBG
                      handicapped accessibility improvements.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
109-2013  10-31-2013  with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for phase II CDBG beginning
                      at the intersections of 29th and Belmont Streets, and
                      repealing Ord. 75-2013.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
113-2013  10-31-2013  with Tri-State Construction & Enterprise for the purchase
                      of materials and labor for construction of a classroom
                      and restrooms for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
114-2013  12-12-2013  with Cargill Inc. for the purchase of 1,500 tons of
                      treated rock salt.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
115-2013  12-12-2013  with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the removal and
                      disposition of sludge from the wastewater and water
                      treatment plants for one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
1-2014    1-9-2014    with River Cities Disposal, LLC for a suitable landfill
                      location for the receipt and disposal of compacted
                      garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish for one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
5-2014    1-9-2014    employee assistance program management agreement with
                      Ashland Hospital Corp. d/b/a/ UK King s Daughters for a
                      period of three years.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
7-2014    1-23-2014   2011-05 with HDR Engineering, Inc. regarding the 29th
                      Street storm water separation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
10-2014   2-13-2014   # 17 with Strand Associates, Inc. regarding the annual
                      combined sewer overflow report.
                      Amending the contract with Community Assistance Referral,
12-2014   2-13-2014   Inc. adopted by Ord. 71-2012 regarding a grant under the
                      emergency solutions grant program, 2011 phase II funding.
                      Amending the contract with Shelter of Hope, Inc. adopted
13-2014   2-13-2014   by Ord. 72-2012 regarding a grant under the emergency
                      solutions grant program, 2011 phase II funding.
14-2014   2-13-2014   Terminating the contract with Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.,
                      and repealing Ord. 107-2013.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
15-2014   2-13-2014   with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for labor and materials for
                      concrete and asphalt repair work.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
22-2014   3-27-2014   with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of
                      powdered activated carbon and liquid chlorine.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
23-2014   3-27-2014   with C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc. for the purchase of sand,
                      hydrofluosilicic acid and sulfur dioxide.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
24-2014   3-27-2014   with Gulbrandsen Technologies for the purchase of poly-
                      aluminum chloride (PAC).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
25-2014   3-27-2014   with Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of cationic polymer
                      and liquid polymer.
27-2014   3-27-2014   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with USALCO, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Cintas Corp. for the rental of work uniforms for
32-2014   4-10-2014   three years for the Departments of Public Works,
                      Engineering and Utilities, Parks and Recreation and Code
                      Enforcement.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
33-2014   4-10-2014   with Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and
                      replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the 2014
                      street paving program.
38-2014   4-24-2014   Adopting the levee certification and approving submission
                      of same to FEMA.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
40-2014   5-8-2014    with C & D Painting Services, Inc. for all labor and
                      materials to clean and paint the Summit, Ironville and
                      Hall Ridge water tanks.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
41-2014   5-8-2014    with C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc. for the purchase of caustic
                      soda.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
42-2014   5-8-2014    with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for the concrete
                      improvement program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
43-2014   5-8-2014    with Univar USA, Inc. for the purchase of potassium
                      permanganate and sodium hypochlorite and repealing Ord.
                      26-2014.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agency
48-2014   5-22-2014   service agreement between the city and APPRISS, Inc., for
                      supplying police reports for the Ashland Police
                      Department.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MEDBEN), for administrative fees to administer the
50-2014   6-12-2014   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through ReliaStar for plan year
                      July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
51-2014   6-12-2014   agreement between the city and Peoples Insurance Agency
                      of Ohio, LLC, to provide insurance and/or risk management
                      support services from July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc.
76-2014   8-14-2014   for the Greenup Avenue combined sewer remediation project
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division
                      of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
80-2014   8-28-2014   city and Doll Layman, Ltd. for a contract regarding the
                      37th Street pump station improvement project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
81-2014   8-28-2014   city and Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for a contract
                      regarding the 37th Street lift station improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Prichard Lawncare, Inc. for the purchase of all
84-2014   9-25-2014   labor and materials for tree trimming for a two-year
                      period for the Department of Public Works, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the city s
85-2014   9-25-2014   consolidated annual performance and evaluation report for
                      program year 2013 for the Department of Planning and
                      Community Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
92-2014   12-11-2014  city and C. J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the Greenup Avenue combined sewer
                      remediation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional services agreement between the city and E.L.
93-2014   12-11-2014  Robinson Engineering Company, Inc. for the existing
                      combined sewer rehab project at 15th and 17th Streets in
                      an amount not to exceed $15,900 for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Green Valley Landfill for the removal and
94-2014   12-11-2014  disposition of sludge from the city wastewater and water
                      treatment plants for a period of one year for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and R & C Excavating for the replacement of 6,000
95-2014   12-11-2014  water meters for the Divisions of Water Distribution and
                      Meter Services in the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city, King s Daughters and Sons Home and Tri-
1-2015    12-11-2014  State Construction & Enterprise for the Kings Daughters
                      and Sons Home mobility improvement project for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for all
2-2015    12-11-2014  labor and materials for the miscellaneous concrete and
                      asphalt repair works for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
3-2015    12-11-2014  no. 1 to task order 2011-05 between the city and HDR
                      Engineering, Inc. regarding the 29th Street storm water
                      separation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Badger Meter, Inc. for the purchase
5-2015    1-8-2015    of various compound water meters and strainers with Nicor
                      connectors and 25- foot wire to connect to Beacon Units
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and River Cities Disposal, LLC for a
6-2015    1-8-2015    suitable landfill location for the receipt and disposal
                      of compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish,
                      collected by the city for a period of one year.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
15-2015   1-22-2015   city and Tri-State Construction for a contract regarding
                      the King s Daughters and Sons Home mobility improvements
                      project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
18-2015   2-12-2015   city and Kentucky Power Company for electric energy
                      supplied to the 40th Street water intake pump station for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
19-2015   2-12-2015   city and Tri-State Construction for a contract regarding
                      the King s Daughters and Sons Home mobility improvements
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
21-2015   2-26-2015   #19 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
                      regarding the annual combined sewer overflow report for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
22-2015   2-26-2015   between the city and Revize LLC regarding website
                      redesign, development and implementation services for the
                      city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
23-2015   3-12-2015   with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of
                      powdered activated carbon, liquid chlorine and sulfur
                      dioxide.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
24-2015   3-12-2015   with Chemtrade Chemicals, U.S., LLC for the purchase of
                      poly-aluminum chloride (PAC).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
25-2015   3-12-2015   with C. I. Thornburg Co., Inc. for the purchase of liquid
                      caustic soda, sand, hydrofluosilicic acid and sodium
                      hypochlorite.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
26-2015   3-12-2015   with Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of cationic polymer
                      and liquid polymer.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
27-2015   3-12-2015   with Univar USA, Inc. for the purchase of potassium
                      permanganate.
28-2015   3-12-2015   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Usalco, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate.
                      Accepting the proposal of E.L. Robinson Engineering in an
                      amount not to exceed $33,000 to provide engineering
35-2015   4-9-2015    services for existing water booster pump stations located
                      at U.S. 23 and 12th Street in Catlettsburg and at Old
                      Buckley Road and KY Route 5 near Ironville for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
37-2015   4-9-2015    city and R&C Excavating, LLC for a contract regarding the
                      installation of radio read water meters for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Accepting the proposal of GRW Engineers, Inc. to provide
39-2015   5-14-2015   engineering services for the safe routes to schools
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a lease
40-2015   5-14-2015   agreement between the City of Ashland and the City of
                      Raceland, Kentucky for the lease of two used police
                      vehicles.
                      Authorizing the Mayor and Finance Director to execute a
                      master equipment lease/purchase agreement by and between
43-2015   5-14-2015   Grant Capital Management, Inc. and the Housing Authority
                      of Ashland for the purpose of financing the acquisition,
                      construction and installation of equipment related to
                      energy savings measures for AHA facilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Shield Roofing for the removal and replacement
47-2015   5-28-2015   of the roof on the Ashland Transportation Center located
                      at 99 15th Street for the Department of Public Works,
                      Division of Mass Transit.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
52-2015   6-4-2015    between the city and Midwest Salt, LLC for the purchase
                      of approximately 1,500 tons of treated rock salt for the
                      Department of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MEDBEN) for administrative fees to administer the
53-2015   6-4-2015    city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through American Alternative for
                      plan year July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
54-2015   6-11-2015   agreement between the city and Peoples Insurance Agency
                      of Ohio, LLC to provide insurance and/or risk management
                      support services from July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. for all
55-2015   6-25-2015   labor and materials for the miscellaneous concrete and
                      asphalt repair work for up to one year for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
56-2015   6-25-2015   amendment to the city flexible benefit plan as adopted by
                      Ord. 129, 2011, and previously amended by Ord. 85, 2012.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
62-2015   6-25-2015   participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
                      Insurance Services General Insurance Trust.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
66-2015   6-26-2015   city and R&C Excavating, LLC for a contract regarding the
                      installation of radio read water meters for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
                      #1 to task order #19 between the city and Strand
                      Associates, Inc., adopted by Ord. 21-2015, extending the
73-2015   8-13-2015   schedule to June 25, 2015, and increasing the
                      compensation by $20,000, regarding the annual combined
                      sewer overflow report for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a license
85-2015   8-27-2015   agreement between the city and Broadcast Music, Inc.
                      regarding the city s right to perform member works.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and R & C Excavating, LLC for the
88-2015   8-31-2015   Charles & Betty Russell Park hiking trail bridge and
                      stair construction for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the city s
94-2015   9-24-2015   consolidated annual performance and evaluation report
                      (CAPER) for program year 2014 for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Amending Ord. 47-1982, which requires an application for
101-2015  10-8-2015   permission to make cuts and excavations in public rights-
                      of-way, sets the fee for such permit and the penalty for
                      violations.
103-2015  10-22-2015  Adopting the amended City of Ashland health reimbursement
                      plan document.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreed order between
105-2015  11-12-2015  the city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky Energy and
                      Environment Cabinet, Division of Enforcement; authorizing
                      the payment of a civil penalty.
                      Amending the policies and procedures, compensation plan
106-2015  11-12-2015  and classification plan, Part VII: Grievance Procedure
                      (Appendix A).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
109-2015  12-10-2015  city and Crescent Moon Properties, LLC, to place a cart
                      on the city sidewalk in front of 209 15th Street on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
111-2015  12-10-2015  city and Layne Inliner, LLC, for the 15th and 17th
                      Streets combined sewer rehabilitation project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contact between the
                      city and Green Valley Landfill for the removal and
112-2015  12-10-2015  disposition of sludge from the city wastewater treatment
                      plant and water treatment plant for a period of one year
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Safe
117-2015  12-10-2015  Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., to assist in utility
                      reimbursement costs for the energy shelter from the 2015
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Danny
5-2016    1-14-2016   Sullivan Excavating, LLC, for improvements to existing
                      water pumping stations for the Department of Engineering
                      and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Clancy
7-2016    1-14-2016   Systems International, Inc., regarding citation hardware
                      and software necessary for parking enforcement for the
                      Police Department.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with River Cities
                      Disposal, LLC, for a suitable landfill location for the
10-2016   1-28-2016   receipt and disposal of compacted garbage and refuse,
                      rubble and rubbish collected by the city for a period of
                      one year.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Mike Enyart
12-2016   1-28-2016   & Sons, Inc., for all labor and materials for
                      miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair work for up to
                      one year for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Morris
14-2016   2-11-2016   Contracting for the Boyd County Middle School waterline
                      extension project for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the Boyd
                      County Board of Education for the installation of a water
15-2016   2-11-2016   line extension outside the city limits to the Boyd County
                      Middle School for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of a professional services
16-2016   2-11-2016   agreement with Howerton Engineering and Surveying, PLLC,
                      to provide engineering services regarding the Louisa
                      Street water line project.
                      Authorizing the execution of task order #20 to the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 67-2005, with Strand
18-2016   2-12-2016   Associates, Inc., to increase the costs associated with
                      the annual combined sewer overflow report for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities by an amount not
                      to exceed $15,000.
                      Authorizing the execution of a second amendment to task
                      order #19 to the contract authorized by Ord. 21-2015,
19-2016   2-12-2016   with Strand Associates, Inc., to include the position of
                      senior project manager for the 2013 combined sewer
                      overflow (CSO) long-term control plan update (LTCP) for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 44-2015, with Building
20-2016   2-12-2016   Crafts, Inc., to add $67,957 for the replacement of the
                      Xylem/Leopold underdrain for Filter 1B as part of the
                      water treatment plant air backwash system project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 111-2015, with Layne Inliner,
21-2016   2-12-2016   LLC, for an increase of $5,805 in the cost of the 15th
                      and 17th Streets Combined Sewer Rehabilitation Project
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Hanna
                      Resource Group, LLC, regarding consulting services on the
25-2016   2-26-2016   preparation of a classification and compensation study
                      for the Department of General Government, Division of
                      Human Resources.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Morris
27-2016   2-26-2016   Contracting for the 31st Street drainage improvement
                      project, funded in part by $135,070.38 from the 2015
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing the execution of a general release and
30-2016   2-26-2016   separation agreement with Benjamin Bitter to terminate
                      his employment as City Manager.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Brenntag
31-2016   3-24-2016   Mid-South, Inc., for the purchase of powdered activated
                      carbon, liquid chlorine, liquid caustic soda and sulfur
                      dioxide for water and wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Chemtrade
32-2016   3-24-2016   Chemicals, U.S., LLC, for the purchase of poly-aluminum
                      chloride (PAC) for water and wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with C. I.
33-2016   3-24-2016   Thornburg Co., Inc., for the purchase of sand and sodium
                      hypochlorite for water and wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Hawkins,
34-2016   3-24-2016   Inc., for the purchase of liquid sodium permanganate and
                      hydrofluosilicic acid for water and wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Polydyne,
35-2016   3-24-2016   Inc., for the purchase of cationic polymer and liquid
                      polymer for water and wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Univar USA,
36-2016   3-24-2016   Inc., for the purchase of potassium permanganate for
                      water and wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with USALCO, LLC,
37-2016   3-24-2016   for the purchase of aluminum sulfate for water and
                      wastewater treatment.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 to the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 111-2015, with Layne Inliner,
38-2016   3-24-2016   LLC, for a decrease of $11,050 in the cost of the 15th
                      and 17th Streets combined sewer rehabilitation project
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
39-2016   3-24-2016   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Granicus,
                      Inc., to provide peak agenda management software.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Peoples
40-2016   3-24-2016   Insurance Agency of Ohio, LLC, to provide insurance and/
                      or risk management support services from July 1, 2016
                      through June 30, 2017.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with PMAM
44-2016   4-14-2016   Corporation for delivery and maintenance of accreditation
                      software for the Ashland Police Department.
45-2016   4-14-2016   Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 to the
                      contract with Danny Sullivan Excavating LLC.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Badger
                      Meter, Inc. for the purchase of various compound water
46-2016   4-14-2016   meters and strainers with Nicor connectors and 25-foot
                      wire to connect to beacon units for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Service Pump
                      and Supply, Inc. for the purchase and installation of
54-2016   4-27-2016   four sand pumps at the water treatment plant for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Water Treatment.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with B.J.R. &
58-2016   5-4-2016    C., Inc. regarding and encroachment for the installation
                      of a sign at 1916 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Accepting the proposal of Engineering Associates, PSC for
                      drafting and design work completed in three phases for
60-2016   5-4-2016    the new water and distribution and sewer maintenance
                      facilities located at Mill Street and 28th Street for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Distribution and Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Mike Enyart
61-2016   5-18-2016   & Sons, Inc. for the concrete improvement program for the
                      city, Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Mountain
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the placement and replacement of
62-2016   5-18-2016   bituminous asphalt material for the 2016-2017 street
                      paving program for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities.
                      Approving change order No. 1 to the contract with Morris
63-2016   5-18-2016   Contracting for contract regarding the 31st Street
                      drainage improvement project for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Execution of a contract with OTP Industrial Solutions for
                      the purchase and replacement of two vertical turbine
64-2016   5-18-2016   pumps, two breakers and two variable frequency drives for
                      the Roberts Drive water booster station for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Water Distribution.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MEDBEN) for administrative fees to administer the
66-2016   5-26-2016   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through American Alternative for
                      plan year July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017.
                      Authorizing an agreement with BCH Automotive Company, LLC
67-2016   5-26-2016   regarding an encroachment for a retaining wall on the
                      city s right-of-way at 2500 Winchester Avenue and 320
                      25th Street.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Morton Salt,
69-2016   6-1-2016    Inc. for the purchase of approximately 1,500 tons of
                      treated rock salt for the Department of Public Works,
                      Division of Streets.
                      Approving change order no. 2 to contract with Danny
70-2016   6-1-2016    Sullivan Excavating, LLC regarding the existing water
                      pumping stations improvement project for the Department
                      of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Approving change order no. 2 to contract with Morris
78-2016   7-5-2016    Contracting for a contract regarding the 31st Street
                      drainage improvement project for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Tri-State
                      Fencing to furnish all labor, materials, supervision and
80-2016   7-5-2016    safety to install approximately 80 feet of six-foot gauge
                      commercial fencing with an additional one-foot of barbed
                      wire and complete repairs of existing fencing at the city
                      water reservoir.
                      Authorizing the execution of a waterline extension
81-2016   7-5-2016    agreement with the Kentucky Community and Technical
                      College System regarding construction of a water line at
                      Ashland Community and Technical College.
                      Approving change order no. 3 to contract with Morris
91-2016   8-4-2016    Contracting for a contract regarding the 31st Street
                      drainage improvement project for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Morris
                      Contracting for the installation of plastic sewer line
94-2016   8-25-2016   and manholes at Elwood Drive for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Wastewater
                      Collection.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract with Service Pump
                      & Supply, Inc., for a turbine pump at the water plant
95-2016   9-8-2016    intake located at the AK Steel Coke Plant for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Division of
                      Water Production.
                      Approving change order no. 1 to contract with Morris
96-2016   9-8-2016    Contracting for a contract regarding the Boyd County
                      Middle School water line extension project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
97-2016   9-8-2016    Authorizing a School Resource Officer agreement with the
                      Ashland Independent School District.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Ashland Hospital
99-2016   9-22-2016   Corporation d/b/a UK King s Daughters for the telephonic
                      nurse triage/first report of injury service.
                      Authorizing a contract with Morris Contracting for the
100-2016  9-22-2016   purchase of all labor for the abatement of high grass and
                      weeds on residential lots, for the Department of Planning
                      and Community Development.
                      Accepting the amended proposal of Engineering Associates,
                      PSC for drafting and design work completed in three
101-2016  9-22-2016   phases for a new water distribution and sewer maintenance
                      facility located at Mill Street and 28th Street for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Distribution and Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the city s
102-2016  9-22-2016   consolidated annual performance and evaluation report
                      (CAPER) for program year 2015 for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a facility
106-2016  9-22-2016   encroachment agreement between the city and CSX
                      Transportation, Inc., regarding the Louisa Street
                      waterline project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute documents for
108-2016  9-22-2016   disbursement of coal severance funds; repeals Ord. 102-
                      2015.
                      Accepting the proposal of Evergreen AES Environmental
                      services in the amount of $11,000 per day for the removal
112-2016  10-13-2016  of sludge from the reservoir for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Divisions of Water
                      Distribution and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
113-2016  10-13-2016  city and Light s Enterprises, Inc., for the purchase of
                      all labor and materials for tree trimming for a period of
                      two years.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
115-2016  10-13-2016  city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc., for the Central Park
                      Tennis Court renovation project for the Department of
                      Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
119-2016  10-6-2016   city and the Kentucky League of Cities regarding
                      consulting services on the search for a City Manager.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Straight Edge Construction for the construction
121-2016  10-27-2016  of the Safe Routes to Schools (SRTS) project along Gartin
                      Avenue, Ferguson Drive, Division Street and Summit Street
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Distel Construction for all labor, materials and
126-2016  11-10-2016  equipment for the construction of a pre-engineered metal
                      building for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Distribution and Sewer Maintenance.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc., for the removal,
127-2016  11-10-2016  re-build and installation of three flowserve model 3EPM-
                      2 vertical turbine pumps at the water plant intake
                      located at the AK Steel Coke Plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
1-2017    12-8-2016   employee assistance program management agreement between
                      the City of Ashland and Ashland Hospital Corporation d/b/
                      a UK King s Daughters, for a period of three years.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
2-2017    12-8-2016   addendum to the agreement between the City of Ashland and
                      Greyhound Lines, Inc., allowing the city to sell
                      Greyhound tickets at the Ashland Transportation Center.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and Timothy and
3-2017    12-8-2016   Millie Diamond regarding an encroachment for a retaining
                      wall on the city s right-of-way at 2900 South 29th
                      Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and Green Valley
5-2017    1-5-2017    Landfill for the removal and disposition of sludge from
                      the city s wastewater treatment plant and water treatment
                      plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
6-2017    1-5-2017    #21 between the City of Ashland and Strand Associates,
                      Inc., regarding the annual combined sewer overflow report
                      for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
8-2017    1-5-2017    between the City of Ashland and Ashland Furnace Co.,
                      Inc., for the purchase and installation of an HVAC
                      system.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
9-2017    1-25-2017   City of Ashland and Straight Edge Construction, LLC, for
                      a contract regarding the safe routes to school project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
11-2017   1-26-2017   between the City of Ashland and Morris Contracting, Inc.,
                      for all labor and materials for miscellaneous concrete
                      and asphalt repair work.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the City of Ashland and River Cities Disposal,
14-2017   2-15-2017   LLC, for a suitable landfill location for the receipt and
                      disposal of compacted garbage and refuse, for a period of
                      one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
15-2017   2-23-2017   between the City of Ashland and McDaniel Electric, Inc.,
                      for the purchase and installation of a 100KW diesel
                      generator for the Providence Hill pump station.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
16-2017   2-23-2017   with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc., for the purchase of liquid
                      chlorine, liquid caustic soda and sulfur dioxide.
17-2017   2-23-2017   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with USALCO, LLC, for the purchase of aluminum sulfate.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
18-2017   2-23-2017   with Univar USA, Inc., for the purchase of
                      hydrofluosilicic acid and sodium hypochlorite.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
19-2017   2-23-2017   with Shannon Chemical Corporation for the purchase of
                      liquid sodium permanganate and potassium permanganate.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
20-2017   2-23-2017   with S4 Water Sales and Service, LLC, for the purchase of
                      powdered activated carbon, sand and polymer cationic.
21-2017   2-23-2017   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Polydyne, Inc., for the purchase of liquid polymer.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
22-2017   2-23-2017   with Gulbrandsen Technologies for the purchase of a poly-
                      aluminum chloride (PAC).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and Legal Aid of
23-2017   3-9-2017    the Bluegrass regarding the leasing of parking spaces on
                      the city-owned parking lot at 15th Street and Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
24-2017   3-9-2017    agreement between the City of Ashland and Gliding Swan
                      Properties, LLC, regarding the leasing of parking spaces
                      north of the floodwall and west of the depot property.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
25-2017   3-9-2017    between the City of Ashland and Tribute Contracting &
                      Construction, LLC, for the 29th Street storm water
                      separation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
26-2017   3-9-2017    between the City of Ashland and Morris Contracting Inc.,
                      for the installation of up to 100 blow-offs/flushing
                      hydrants.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
27-2017   3-9-2017    between the City of Ashland and Morris Contracting Inc.,
                      for the Floyd Street and Skyline Drive water line
                      installation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and the Ashland
29-2017   3-9-2017    Breakfast Kiwanis for the placement of painted pianos at
                      various locations, which involve using a portion of the
                      city s rights-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
30-2017   3-23-2017   between the City of Ashland and Danny Sullivan
                      Excavating, LLC, for the 39th Street sewer system
                      improvements.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and Peoples
31-2017   4-13-2017   Insurance Agency, LLC, to provide insurance and/or risk
                      management support services from July 1, 2017 to June 30,
                      2018.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the City of Ashland and the Henry P. Thompson
32-2017   4-13-2017   Company for the purchase and delivery of six reagentless
                      chlorine analyzers, for the Department of Engineering and
                      Utilities, Division of Water Distribution.
                      Directing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
33-2017   4-13-2017   City of Ashland and Mountain Enterprises, Inc., for the
                      placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the 2017 street paving program for the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
34-2017   4-13-2017   between the City of Ashland and UCL, Inc., for the river
                      intake pier access bridge painting, for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      settlement and release agreement between the City of
35-2017   4-13-2017   Ashland and Boyd County Properties, LLC, for the
                      settlement of an insurance claim for water damage to
                      property located in the 1300 block of Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
40-2017   5-11-2017   City of Ashland and Sutphen Corporation in the amount of
                      $3,171.63 regarding the purchase of the custom fire
                      pumper for the Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the City of Ashland and IVS, Inc. d/b/a AngelTrax
42-2017   5-25-2017   for the purchase and installation of a vehicle security
                      camera system for the Department of Public Works,
                      Division of Mass Transit.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
43-2017   6-8-2017    between the City of Ashland and Morton Salt, Inc. for the
                      purchase of approximately 1,500 tons of treated rock salt
                      for the Department of Public Works, Division of Streets.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
47-2017   6-9-2017    Inc. (MEDBEN) for administrative fees to administer the
                      city s health insurance coverage through National Union/
                      AIG for plan year July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the City of Ashland and Triple S d/b/a Smith
50-2017   6-9-2017    Insulation for the replacement of the rubber roof at the
                      Ashland Fire Department, Station 2, for the Department of
                      Fire.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
52-2017   6-9-2017    employment agreement between the City of Ashland and
                      Michael Graese for the position of City Manager.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      City of Ashland and Cintas Corporation for the rental of
53-2017   6-27-2017   work uniforms for a period of three years for the
                      Departments of Public Works, Engineering and Utilities,
                      Parks and Recreation, and Code Enforcement.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
64-2017   6-27-2017   employment agreement between the City of Ashland and
                      Kevin P. Sinnette for the position of assistant
                      corporation counsel.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
65-2017   6-27-2017   City of Ashland and Mountain Enterprises, Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the Central Park tennis courts.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2, between the
75-2017   8-10-2017   city and Distel Construction, Inc., for a contract
                      regarding the Mill Street Building Project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
76-2017   8-10-2017   contract, between the city and Weather-Top Roofing
                      Services, for replacement of the rubber roof at Fire
                      Department station no. 2.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      contract, between the city and Tri-State Construction,
                      for the construction of the interior offices, an
77-2017   8-10-2017   electrical system, a HVAC system, a fire sprinkler system
                      and other work in the city s new water distribution and
                      wastewater collection facility for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, between the
80-2017   8-11-2017   city and Tribute Contracting & Construction, LLC, for a
                      contract regarding the 29th Street storm water separation
                      project for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, between the
                      city and Engineering Associates, PSC, for a contract
81-2017   8-11-2017   regarding the new water distribution and sewer
                      maintenance facilities located at Mill Street and 28th
                      Street for the Department of Engineering and Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Distribution and Water Collection.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2, between the
82-2017   8-11-2017   city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc., for a contract
                      regarding the Central Park Tennis Courts.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3, between the
83-2017   8-11-2017   city and Distel Construction, Inc., for a contract
                      regarding the Mill Street Building Project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional services agreement, between the city and
86-2017   9-14-2017   AssureCo Risk Management and Regulatory Compliance, LLC,
                      d/b/a Risk Management Plan Compliance Services, for
                      compliance services at the wastewater (sewer) treatment
                      plant for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1, between the
91-2017   9-14-2017   city and Morris Contracting, for a contract regarding for
                      the Floyd Street/Skyline Drive waterline replacement
                      project for the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a School
92-2017   9-14-2017   Resource Officer agreement between the city and the
                      Ashland Independent School District.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      contract, between the city and Consolidated Pipe and
95-2017   9-14-2017   Supply Company, for the purchase of stock and parts for a
                      waterline replacement project for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Water
                      Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      contract, between the city and Olive Hill Trucking, Inc.,
96-2017   9-28-2017   for the purchase of gravel, stone and sand for the
                      Department of Public Works, and the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Designating the city a participant in the Boyd County
106-2017  10-27-2017  Solid Waste Management Area; approving the Boyd County
                      Solid Waste Management Plan; and authorizing the Mayor to
                      execute the plan.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4, between the
                      city and Distel Construction, Inc. for a contract
107-2017  10-27-2017  regarding the Mill Street Building Project for the
                      Department of Engineering and Utilities extending the
                      contract 70 days.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a public transportation
108-2017  11-9-2017   grant agreement with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for
                      a fiscal year 2018 capital state match contract grant for
                      the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to accept the
                      proposal of Bluewater Kentucky, LLC to provide management
                      consulting services for water distribution and sewer
                      maintenance and to provide a detailed overview of the
110-2017  11-9-2017   organizational leadership and management; budgets
                      (operating and capital); organizational challenges and
                      opportunities; capital improvement program;
                      organizational reporting and performance of operations
                      and capital; and water revenue, loss and metering; for
                      the Department of Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Newtech Systems,
4-2018    1-11-2018   Inc. for installation and implementation of security
                      cameras and monitoring system for water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Elkins
7-2018    1-11-2018   Waste Services, Inc. for removal and disposition of
                      sludge from wastewater treatment plan and water treatment
                      plant.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Mike Enyart &
8-2018    1-11-2018   Sons, Inc. for installation of water main and
                      appurtenances at Louisa Street.
                      Authorizing execution of agreed order with Kentucky
11-2018   1-25-2018   Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Enforcement
                      authorizing payment of $4,500 civil penalty for
                      violations at wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Dixon Engineering,
12-2018   1-25-2018   Inc. for engineering and inspection services for
                      Catlettsburg water storage tank coating, painting and
                      repairing.
13-2018   1-25-2018   Authorizing task order #22 with Strand Associates, Inc.
                      regarding combined sewer overflow report.
                      Authorizing execution of pole attachment license
26-2018   2-8-2018    agreement with Kentucky Power Company for use of eight
                      utility poles for hanging fiber for security system for
                      water storage reservoir.
                      Accepting proposal of GRW Engineers, Inc. to provide
27-2018   2-8-2018    needs assessment to existing SCADA and field instrument
                      systems at water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with Morris
31-2018   2-8-2018    Contracting, Inc. for labor and materials for
                      miscellaneous asphalt and concrete repair work.
                      Accepting proposal of EN Engineering, LLC to provide
35-2018   2-9-2018    engineering and drafting services for renovation of Judd
                      Plaza.
                      Authorizing execution of memorandum of understanding with
37-2018   2-12-2018   Building Crafts, Inc., HDR, Inc, FB Leopold Company, Inc.
                      and Xylem Water Solutions, USA, Inc. regarding water
                      treatment plant.
                      Authorizing acceptance of proposal of Xylem Water
38-2018   2-22-2018   Solutions, USA, Inc. for water treatment plant filter
                      project.
                      Authorizing execution of one-year contract with River
43-2018   3-8-2018    Cities Disposal, LLC for receipt and disposal of garbage
                      and rubbish.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Brenntag Mid-
45-2018   3-22-2018   South, Inc. for purchase of liquid chlorine and other
                      chemicals.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Chemtrade
46-2018   3-22-2018   Chemicals U.S., LLC for purchase of poly-aluminum
                      chloride (PAC).
47-2018   3-22-2018   Authorizing execution of contract with C.I. Thornburg
                      Company, Inc. for purchase of sand.
48-2018   3-22-2018   Authorizing execution of contract with Polydyne, Inc. for
                      purchase of liquid polymer and other chemicals.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with S4 Water Sales and
49-2018   3-22-2018   Service LLC for purchase of powdered activated carbon and
                      other chemicals.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Univar USA, Inc.
50-2018   3-22-2018   for purchase of liquid sodium permanganate and other
                      chemicals.
51-2018   3-22-2018   Authorizing execution of contract with USALCO, LLC for
                      purchase of aluminum sulfate.
52-2018   3-22-2018   Authorizing task order 2018-01 with HDR Engineering, Inc.
                      regarding the phase 2 storm water MS4 compliance report.
                      Authorizing execution of a contribution- in-aid-of-
61-2018   4-12-2018   construction agreement for electric distribution services
                      with Kentucky Power Company.
69-2018   4-26-2018   Contract with Ashland Furnace Co., Inc., for the
                      installation of an HVAC system.
                      Authorizing a contract with Daniel Runyon d/b/a Daniels
72-2018   4-26-2018   Lawn Care for the purchase of all labor for the abatement
                      of high grass and weeds on residential lots, for the
                      Department of Planning and Community Development.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Alan S. Ray and Tina
73-2018   5-10-2018   Campbell regarding an encroachment for a sign at 1612
                      Bath Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Doris C. Meade regarding a
74-2018   5-10-2018   parking encroachment at 800 Winchester Avenue on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the purchase of approximately 1,500 tons of
87-2018   6-14-2018   treated rock salt for the Department of Public Services
                      and Utilities Operations, Division of Streets.
90-2018   6-14-2018   Authorizing a contract with Worldwide Industries Corp.
                      for the repair and painting of a water storage tank.
                      Accepting the proposal of Howerton Engineering &
97-2018   6-25-2018   Surveying PLLC for professional engineering and drafting
                      services associated with a sewer lining project.
98-2018   6-25-2018   Authorizing a contract with Great Southern Recreation for
                      the installation of playground equipment.
                      Authorizing a contract with Shield Roofing for the
99-2018   6-25-2018   removal and replacement of the roof on the City of
                      Ashland Central Garage buildings.
100-2018  6-25-2018   Executing a School Resource Officer agreement with the
                      Ashland Independent School District for 2018-2019.
                      Approving a renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MEDBEN) for administrative fees to administer the
103-2018  6-28-2018   city s health insurance coverage, Section 125 cafeteria
                      plan, health reimbursement arrangement, dental insurance
                      and stop loss coverage through Companion Life for plan
                      year July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019.
                      Executing an agreement with Community Assistance Referral
105-2018  6-28-2018   Service, Inc. to provide services for the low/moderate
                      income and homeless.
106-2018  6-28-2018   Executing an agreement with Boyd County Council on Aging,
                      Inc., for reimbursement of operating expenses.
107-2018  6-28-2018   Executing an agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission for
                      reimbursement of food pantry operating costs.
                      Executing an agreement with the Ashland Child Development
108-2018  6-28-2018   Center, Inc., for reimbursement of utility expenses and
                      liability insurance.
                      Executing an agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., for
109-2018  6-28-2018   reimbursement of utility expenses and liability
                      insurance.
                      Executing an agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen,
110-2018  6-28-2018   Inc., for reimbursement of operating expenses, including
                      utilities, from the 2018 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Approving loan No. 2018-ED-001 to Alma s Italian, LLC in
111-2018  6-28-2018   the amount of $50,000 from the Economic Development
                      Incentive Loan Fund.
                      Approving loan No. 2018-ED-002 to Bird Dog of the Tri-
112-2018  6-28-2018   State d/b/a Advantaclean of the Tri-State in the amount
                      of $50,000 from the Economic Development Incentive Loan
                      Fund.
                      Approving loan No. 2018-ED-003 to Crossover Ventures Inc.
113-2018  6-28-2018   in the amount of $50,000 from the Economic Development
                      Incentive Loan Fund.
                      Executing an agreement with Peoples Insurance Agency, LLC
114-2018  6-28-2018   to provide insurance and/or risk management support
                      services.
                      Executing a trust participation agreement for the
115-2018  6-28-2018   Kentucky League of Cities Insurance Services General
                      Insurance Trust for FY 2018-2019.
                      Authorizing a contract with MSE of Kentucky, Inc. to
118-2018  7-26-2018   provide engineering services for the Ashland water
                      booster pump station for Eastpark Regional Business Park.
                      Authorizing a contract with Cosby Construction for the
121-2018  8-9-2018    placement and replacement of sidewalks, curbs, gutters
                      and other related work for the concrete improvement
                      program.
122-2018  8-9-2018    Authorizing a contract with Morris Contracting Inc. for
                      the South 29th Street waterline replacement project.
                      Authorizing a contract with Triple B Construction for the
123-2018  8-9-2018    repair and/or replacement of chain-link fencing around
                      one pump station and two water storage tanks.
                      Authorizing a contract with WB Hospitality, LLC,
125-2018  8-9-2018    regarding an encroachment for the installation of an
                      awning at 1401 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 in the
126-2018  8-9-2018    contract with Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc. adopted by Ord. 8-
                      2018, increasing the cost of the Louisa Street water main
                      project in Catlettsburg.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 in the
                      contract with Tri-State Construction & Enterprise LLC
127-2018  8-9-2018    authorized by Ord. 77-2017, extending the completion date
                      for the city s new water distribution and wastewater
                      collection facility to November 30, 2018.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 in the
                      contract with Shield Roofing and Construction LLC adopted
130-2018  8-23-2018   by Ord. 99-2018, increasing the cost of removing and
                      replacing the roof of the city s central garage
                      buildings.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 in the
                      contract with Tribute Contracting & Construction, LLC,
133-2018  8-23-2018   adopted by Ord. 91-2018, extending the date for the
                      completion of the 29th Street storm water separation
                      project to September 6, 2018, including 11 days of
                      liquidated damages.
                      Authorizing an agreement with JR Realty, Inc. (Don Hall
135-2018  9-13-2018   GM Supercenter), regarding an encroachment for the
                      placement of ten streamer poles on each side of 18th
                      Street between Greenup Avenue and Front Street.
136-2018  9-13-2018   Authorizing a contract with Network Innovation Solutions
                      (IS) to upgrade the telephone system.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast
137-2018  9-27-2018   Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of $5,000 from the 2018
                      program year community development grant.
                      Accepting a proposal of GRW Engineers, Inc., to provide
                      professional engineering services by preparing plans and
138-2018  9-27-2018   specifications for supervisory control and data
                      acquisition (SCADA) and instrumentation upgrades at the
                      water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Big Sandy Water District to
139-2018  9-27-2018   extend the contract adopted by Ord. 77-2013, to furnish
                      potable water for distribution and sale within the city s
                      water system boundaries, by 40 years until 2059.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 in the
                      contract with Tri-State Construction & Enterprise LLC
141-2018  9-28-2018   authorized by Ord. 77-2017, increasing the cost of the
                      city s new water distribution and wastewater collection
                      facility.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Graves West Virginia
143-2018  10-11-2018  Properties, LLC, regarding a parking and landscaping
                      encroachment at 1241 Carter Avenue.
144-2018  10-11-2018  Authorizing a contract with Olive Hill Trucking, Inc.,
                      for the purchase of gravel, stone and sand.
                      Authorizing a public transportation grant agreement with
150-2018  10-25-2018  Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for a fiscal year 2019
                      capital state match contract grant for the Ashland Bus
                      System.
                      Authorizing an agreement with GRW Engineers, Inc., to
151-2018  11-1-2018   provide engineering services for the Pollard Mills
                      drainage improvement project.
                      Approving a change order between the city and Worldwide
152-2018  11-15-2018  Industries Corp., for a contract adopted by Ord. 90-2018
                      regarding the repair and painting of a water tank.
                      Approving change order No. 1 between the city and Morris
153-2018  11-15-2018  Contracting regarding the installation of up to 100 blow-
                      off/flushing hydrants.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Arrow
156-2018  11-15-2018  Electric Co., Inc., for the 1200 block of Winchester
                      Avenue streetscape traffic signalization, mast arm
                      installation and street boring.
                      Accepting the proposal of Commonwealth Economics
160-2018  11-15-2018  Partners, LLC, to provide consulting services to the city
                      for the downtown redevelopment project.
                      Approving a change order for a contract between the city
162-2018  11-29-2018  and Morris Contracting, increasing the contract amount
                      and extending the contract for the Debord Terrace
                      concrete and handrail project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a master agreement
163-2018  11-29-2018  between the city and LJB Inc., for consulting services
                      regarding a lift station renovation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
164-2018  11-29-2018  city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc., for the purchase
                      and installation of equipment required to convert
                      existing aerator motors to VFD controlled.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
166-2018  11-29-2018  city and Light s Enterprises, Inc., for the purchase of
                      all labor and materials for tree trimming for a two-year
                      period.
                      Adopting amendment 8 for city employees for the City of
168-2018  11-29-2018  Ashland, Kentucky medical care plan and Summary Plan
                      adopted by Ord. 46-2012 and previously amended.
                      Approving a change order to a contract between the city
170-2018  11-29-2018  and Tri-State Construction & Enterprise LLC, increasing
                      the contract amount and extending the completion date for
                      a water distribution and wastewater collection facility.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
3-2019    1-10-2019   city and Rumpke of Kentucky for the removal and
                      disposition of sludge from the city wastewater and water
                      treatment plants.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
4-2019    1-10-2019   city and Newtech Systems, Inc., for the installation of
                      security cameras.
                      Approving loan no. 2019-M-001 to Kentucky Trophies LLC d/
6-2019    1-24-2019   b/a the Trophy House in the amount of $25,000 for the
                      purchase of fixed capital.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Summit Fence Company, Inc. for the purchase and
7-2019    2-14-2019   installation of fencing for the Department of Public
                      Services and Utility Operations, Division of Water
                      Distribution and Wastewater Collection Mill Street
                      facility.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
8-2019    2-14-2019   city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc., for the purchase
                      and installation of a sewage station channel grinder
                      replacement project.
9-2019    2-14-2019   Amending the authorized positions of the policies and
                      procedures, compensation plan and classification plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
10-2019   2-14-2019   city and Daniel Runyon d/b/a/ Daniels Lawn Care for the
                      abatement of high grass and weeds on residential lots in
                      the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
12-2019   2-14-2019   city and Rob Fields regarding an encroachment for a sign
                      at 1516 Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
13-2019   2-14-2019   city and Dixon Engineering, Inc., for professional
                      engineering services.
                      Amending Ord. 47-1982, which requires an application for
14-2019   2-14-2019   permission to make cuts and excavations in public rights-
                      of-way, sets the fee for such permit and the penalty for
                      violations.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
17-2019   3-14-2019   city and BLK Construction LLC for miscellaneous concrete
                      and asphalt repair.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
18-2019   3-14-2019   city and Tri-state Construction & Enterprise LLC for
                      renovations at Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky,
                      Building #3.
                      Accepting the proposal of HDR Inc. to provide
21-2019   3-14-2019   professional engineering and rate development services
                      for a cost of service study of rates for the water and
                      sewer systems.
                      Accepting the proposal of LJB Inc. to provide
22-2019   3-14-2019   professional engineering services for the design and
                      permitting of the replacement of waterlines in the city s
                      distribution system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
25-2019   3-14-2019   city and Boyd County Sanitary Landfill, Inc. (Rumpke) for
                      a landfill location and for the receipt and disposal of
                      garbage and refuse.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a bill of sale between
28-2019   3-28-2019   the city and Kentucky Power Company for the purchase of a
                      streetlight system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
29-2019   3-28-2019   city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the
                      purchase of items for mastarms installation for a
                      streetscape project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
30-2019   3-28-2019   city and Brenntag Mid-South, Inc., for the purchase of
                      certain chemicals for the Department of Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
31-2019   3-28-2019   city and Polydyne, Inc., for the purchase of liquid
                      polymer for the water and wastewater treatment plants.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
32-2019   3-28-2019   city and Chemtrade Chemicals U.S., LLC, for the purchase
                      of chemicals for the Department of Utilities, Divisions
                      of Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
33-2019   3-28-2019   city and C.I. Thornburg Company for the purchase of sand
                      for the Department of Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and S4 Water Sales and Service, LLC, for purchase of
34-2019   3-28-2019   powdered activated carbon for the Department of
                      Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater Treatment and Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
35-2019   3-28-2019   city and Univar USA, Inc., for purchase of liquid caustic
                      soda for the Department of Utilities, Divisions of
                      Wastewater Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
36-2019   3-28-2019   city and USALCO, LLC, for purchase of aluminum sulfate
                      for the Department of Utilities, Divisions of Wastewater
                      Treatment and Water Production.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a task order between the
37-2019   3-28-2019   city and Howerton Engineering & Surveying PLLC, regarding
                      a sewer lining project for the Department of Utilities,
                      Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
39-2019   3-28-2019   city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc., to refurbish and
                      reinstall a water intake pump.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
40-2019   3-28-2019   city and Desco Federal Credit Union regarding an
                      encroachment for parking and landscaping on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
42-2019   4-11-2019   city and Building Crafts, Inc., for the removal and
                      replacement of an underdrain.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to accept a proposal by Xylem Water
43-2019   4-11-2019   Solutions USA Inc., for the purchase of a filter
                      underdrain.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to accept a proposal from Barton
44-2019   4-11-2019   and Loguidice for a water treatment plant filter failure
                      investigation.
                      Authorizing a change order to the contract between the
46-2019   4-11-2019   city and Dixon Engineering, Inc., for engineering and
                      inspection services.
                      Authorizing and approving a change order to a contract
47-2019   4-11-2019   between the city and Network Innovative Solutions for the
                      purchase and installation of an active directory system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a task order between the
48-2019   4-11-2019   city and HDR Engineering, Inc., regarding a phase 2 storm
                      water MS4 compliance report.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
51-2019   4-11-2019   city and Triple B Construction for the renovation of a
                      lift station.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
52-2019   4-11-2019   city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating for a
                      waterline replacement.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contribution-in-aid-
53-2019   4-11-2019   of-construction agreement between the city and Kentucky
                      Power Company for the installation of new three-phase
                      line and the removal of old primary line.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
54-2019   4-11-2019   city and Horizon Brothers Painting Corporation for the
                      repair and painting of a water storage tank.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
56-2019   4-25-2019   city and Mountain Enterprises, Inc., for the placement
                      and replacement of bituminous asphalt material for a
                      street paving project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
57-2019   4-25-2019   city and Taylor Siefker Williams Design Group LLC for the
                      preparation of a comprehensive plan for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
58-2019   4-25-2019   city and Dixon Engineering, Inc., for engineering
                      services for the coating, painting and repairing of a
                      water storage tank.
                      Authorizing a change order to a contract between the city
60-2019   4-25-2019   and Summit Fence Company, Inc., to increase the contract
                      amount for the installation of fencing, gates and
                      appurtenances.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contribution-in-aid-
62-2019   5-9-2019    of-construction agreement for the installation of
                      underground service to stoplights.
65-2019   5-9-2019    Accepting a proposal by Kronos Saashr, Inc., to provide a
                      human resources system for the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quitclaim deed of
66-2019   5-9-2019    conveyance between the city and Next Level Properties,
                      Inc., regarding the acceptance of the donation of 3408
                      Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing a change order between the city and Arrow
68-2019   5-21-2019   Electric Co., to increase the contract amount for the
                      Winchester Avene streetscape project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
69-2019   5-22-2019   city and Cargil, Inc., Deicing Technology for the
                      purchase of rock salt.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
70-2019   5-22-2019   city and GLS Electric Inc., for the purchase and
                      installation of exterior lighting for pickleball/tennis
                      courts.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
71-2019   5-22-2019   city and King-crete Drilling, Inc., for the construction
                      of road slips.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
72-2019   5-22-2019   city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales and Installation for
                      the replacement of playground equipment.
                      Approving a change order to the contract between the city
74-2019   5-22-2019   and Tri-state Construction and Enterprise LLC for
                      renovations at Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky.
                      Approving a change order to a contract between the city
75-2019   5-22-2019   and Newtech Systems, Inc., for the installation of
                      security cameras and monitoring system.
76-2019   5-22-2019   Approving renewal with Medical Benefits Administrators,
                      Inc. (MEDBEN).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a software license
78-2019   5-22-2019   agreement between the city and Link Computer Corporation
                      for a cloud-based software solution.
                      Authorizing Mayor to execute a contract between the city
79-2019   6-6-2019    and Terracon Consultants, Inc., for grout testing for
                      water treatment plant filters.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a School Resource
80-2019   6-13-2019   Officer agreement between the city and the Ashland
                      Independent School District for the 2019-2020 term.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a professional services
81-2019   6-13-2019   agreement between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc., for
                      a cost of service study for water and sewer systems.
                      Authorizing a change order to a contract between the city
82-2019   6-13-2019   and Service Pump & Supply, Inc., for refurbishing and re-
                      installing a water intake pump.
                      Authorizing a change order to a contract between the city
83-2019   6-13-2019   and Arrow Electric Co., for the Winchester Avenue
                      streetscape project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a trust participation
84-2019   6-13-2019   agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance
                      Services General Insurance Trust for FY 2019-2020.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
85-2019   6-13-2019   city and Peoples Insurance Agency, LLC, for insurance
                      and/or risk management support services.
88-2019   6-13-2019   Authorizing a change order to a contract between the city
                      and GRW Engineers, Inc., for engineering services.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute of a voluntary
90-2019   6-13-2019   disclosure agreement between the city and Taxpayer A to
                      settle all issues regarding certain occupational license
                      fees.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
92-2019   6-13-2019   Ashland Child Development Center, Inc., for reimbursement
                      of utilities and liability insurance.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
93-2019   6-13-2019   Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., for reimbursement of
                      operating expenses and liability insurance.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
94-2019   6-13-2019   Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc., for reimbursement of
                      operating expenses, food, supplies and liability
                      insurance.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
95-2019   6-13-2019   Community Assistance Referral Service, Inc., for case
                      manager staff salaries.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
96-2019   6-13-2019   Hillcrest Bruce Mission for reimbursement of food for a
                      food pantry.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
97-2019   6-13-2019   Shelter of Hope, Inc., for reimbursement of operating
                      expenses.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute loan documents approving
98-2019   6-13-2019   a loan to CCC Management, LLC, d/b/a Gillum Drug, for the
                      purchase of fixed capital.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an extension to a
100-2019  6-27-2019   housing assistance payments contract between the city and
                      Harbor Hill, LLLP.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a modification to a
101-2019  7-25-2019   parking space lease agreement between the city and
                      Gliding Swan Properties, LLC.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an engineering services
102-2019  7-25-2019   agreement between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.,
                      for wastewater treatment plant expansion and
                      improvements.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
103-2019  7-25-2019   city and Cosby Construction for a concrete improvement
                      program.
                      Authorizing a change order to a contract between the city
104-2019  7-25-2019   and Morris Contracting, Inc., for a waterline replacement
                      project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a consulting agreement
105-2019  7-25-2019   between the city and JM Duley Consulting, LLC, regarding
                      data retention policies for the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
106-2019  7-25-2019   city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc., for
                      labor, equipment, and materials to install filter
                      underdrain anchors.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
107, 2019 7-26-2019   city and Tri-State Construction & Enterprise LLC,
                      increasing the contract amount and extending the
                      contract.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the annual
110, 2019 8-8-2019    Section 8 management assessment program (SEMAP)
                      certification to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a utility
                      keep cost betterment agreement between the Kentucky
111, 2019 8-8-2019    Transportation Cabinet, Division of Right-of-Way and
                      Utilities, and the city regarding work by the Cabinet s
                      highway contractor.
113, 2019 8-8-2019    Approving an amended loan agreement with Tipton s
                      Traditions, LLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreed
115, 2019 8-22-2019   order between the city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky
                      Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of Enforcement,
                      authorizing the payment of a civil penalty.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
118, 2019 8-22-2019   city and Bri-Den Roofing for re-roofing the water
                      treatment plant and river intake building.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
120, 2019 8-22-2019   between the city and Service Pump and Supply, Inc. for
                      the purchase and installation of the 26th Street sewage
                      station channel grinder replacement.
121, 2019 8-22-2019   Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and GRW Engineers, Inc.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
123, 2019 9-12-2019   no. 1 between the city and LJB Inc. regarding the
                      waterline replacement design and permitting project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
124, 2019 9-12-2019   no. 1 between the city and EN Engineering regarding the
                      engineering and drafting services associated with the
                      renovation of Judd Plaza.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
127, 2019 9-12-2019   city and Shield Roofing and Construction LLC for roof
                      replacement.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
129, 2019 9-26-2019   #2 between the city and Howerton Engineering and
                      Surveying, PLLC, regarding the sewer lining project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
130, 2019 9-26-2019   between the city and Granite Inliner, LLC for the cured
                      place pipe lining rehabilitation project for sanitary and
                      combined sewers.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
131, 2019 9-26-2019   between the city and Service Pump and Supply, Inc. for
                      the purchase and installation of equipment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
133, 2019 9-26-2019   agreement between the city and GRW Engineers, Inc. to
                      provide professional services for the Pollard Mills
                      drainage improvement project.
                      Repealing Ord. 114, 2019, which approved change order no.
135, 2019 10-24-2019  1 between the city and Southern Ohio Trenching and
                      Excavating, Inc., regarding the waterline replacement on
                      U.S. 23.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a public transportation
136, 2019 10-24-2019  grant agreement with Ashland Bus System and the Kentucky
                      Transportation Cabinet for a fiscal year 2020 capital
                      state match contract grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Olive
139, 2019 10-24-2019  Hill Trucking, Inc., for the purchase of gravel, stone
                      and sand.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with My
143, 2019 10-25-2019  Town TV to record, broadcast, and post City Commission
                      meetings.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a letter of
145, 2019 10-25-2019  understanding with Roger Brooks International, Inc., for
                      professional services to create a fast-track community
                      action plan for the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Marine
147, 2019 11-15-2019  Diving Services, Inc., for inspection services and debris
                      removal at a water intake structure.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a purchase order with
148, 2019 11-15-2019  AWI for the purchase of underdrain systems for the water
                      treatment plant.
                      Accepting the proposal of Howerton Engineering &
150, 2019 11-15-2019  Surveying PLLC for professional services associated with
                      the Deboard Terrace sidewalks, stairs and handrail
                      project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Guys
153, 2019 11-15-2019  Floor Covering, LLC, for all labor and material for the
                      Ashland Senior Center flooring project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Falcon
154, 2019 11-15-2019  Structures for the purchase of a container for the police
                      substation project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
156, 2019 12-13-2019  city and Shield Roofing and Construction LLC for a
                      contract for the roof replacement at 21st Street garage.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employee assistance
157, 2019 12-13-2019  program management agreement between the city and Ashland
                      Hospital Corporation for a period of three years.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amended agreement
158, 2019 12-13-2019  with Community Assistance Referral Service, Inc., for
                      case manager staff salaries.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
159, 2019 12-13-2019  Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet,
                      Department of Highways for funding for the resurfacing
                      and repairing of various streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Rumpke
161, 2019 12-13-2019  of Kentucky, Inc., for the removal of sludge from the
                      wastewater treatment plant.
162, 2019 12-13-2019  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Debcon,
                      Inc., for the 16th Street Plaza renovation project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
163, 2019 12-13-2019  Bluegrass Recreation Sales and Installation for the
                      purchase and installation of playground equipment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
164, 2019 12-13-2019  Bluegrass Recreation Sales and Installation for the
                      purchase and installation of playground equipment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Fredrick
165, 2019 12-13-2019  & May Construction Company, Inc., for the purchase of all
                      labor and materials for the Pollard Mills storm water,
                      curb, gutter, sidewalk, paving and waterline project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Womack
166, 2019 12-13-2019  Excavating, LLC, for the Ashland sub-station site
                      preparation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a facility encroachment
1, 2020   1-23-2020   agreement with CSX Transportation, Inc., regarding the
                      34th Street waterline project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a general warranty deed
                      of conveyance between the city and David G. Manning
3, 2020   1-23-2020   regarding the purchase of property for the Pollard Mills
                      project for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a task order between the
5, 2020   1-24-2020   city and Strand Associates, Inc., regarding the 2019
                      annual combined sewer overflow reports.
                      Authorizing change order nos. 1 and 2 between the city
6, 2020   1-24-2020   and Womack Excavating, LLC, regarding the Ashland sub-
                      station site preparation.
                      Authorizing change order No. 1 between the city and Guy s
7, 2020   1-24-2020   Floor Covering, LLC, for a contract for labor and
                      material for the Ashland Senior Center flooring project.
                      Approving a change order between the city and Womack
12, 2020  2-28-2020   Excavating, LLC, regarding the community center for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Approving a change order between the city and Debcon,
13, 2020  2-28-2020   Inc., increasing the contract amount for the Judd Plaza
                      renovation project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contribution- in-aid-of-
14, 2020  2-28-2020   construction agreement with Kentucky Power Company for
                      installation of single phase service in existing conduit
                      for the community center project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contribution- in-aid-of-
15, 2020  2-28-2020   construction agreement with Kentucky Power Company for
                      relocation of poles on Dixon Street for the Pollard Mills
                      project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contribution- in-aid-of-
16,2020   2-28-2020   construction agreement with Kentucky Power Company for
                      installation of three phase, UG XFMR service for the Judd
                      Plaza project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Boyd County
17, 2020  2-28-2020   Sanitary Landfill, Inc., (Rumpke) for the receipt and
                      disposal of garbage.
                      Authorizing a contract with Aulick Chemical Solutions for
18, 2020  3-26-2020   the purchase of powdered activated carbon for the
                      Department of Utilities.
19, 2020  3-26-2020   Authorizing a contract with Brenntag Mid-South Inc. for
                      the purchase of chemicals for Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract with Chemtrade Chemicals U.S.,
20, 2020  3-26-2020   LLC, for the purchase of poly-aluminum chloride for the
                      Department of Utilities.
21, 2020  3-26-2020   Authorizing a contract with Polydyne, Inc. for the
                      purchase of liquid polymer for the water treatment plan.
                      Authorizing a contract with Shannon Chemical Corporation
22, 2020  3-26-2020   for the purchase of liquid sodium permanganate and
                      potassium permanganate for the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract with the C.I. Thornburg Company,
23, 2020  3-26-2020   Inc. for the purchase of sand for the Department of
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract with Univar USA Inc. for the
24, 2020  3-26-2020   purchase of liquid caustic soda for the Department of
                      Utilities.
25, 2020  3-26-2020   Authorizing a contract with USALCO, LLC, for the purchase
                      of aluminum sulfate for the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing a contract with Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
26, 2020  3-26-2020   for the placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt
                      material for the 2020 street paving program.
                      Authorizing a change order between the city and Granite
27, 2020  3-26-2020   Inliner, LLC increasing the contract amount regarding
                      sewer lining.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Cosby
28, 2020  3-26-2020   Construction, LLC for all labor and materials for
                      miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair work for up to
                      one year.
                      Authorizing a change order between the city and Frederick
29, 2020  3-26-2020   and May Construction Co., Inc., regarding their contract
                      for the Pollard Mills drainage improvement project.
                      Authorizing change order No. 2 between the city and
32, 2020  4-9-2020    Debcon, Inc., increasing the contract amount by $2,062
                      regarding the 16th Street Plaza (Judd Plaza) renovation
                      project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Orders
41, 2020  4-9-2020    Construction Company Inc. for the construction of the
                      water treatment plant supervisory control and data
                      acquisition system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to accept the proposal of Bluewater
44, 2020  4-23-2020   Kentucky, LLC in an amount not to exceed $40,000 to
                      conduct a water quality study for the Department of
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Peoples
67, 2020  6-11-2020   Insurance Agency, LLC to provide property and casualty
                      insurance broker/agent placement services.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Tech Coat,
68, 2020  6-11-2020   Inc., for the filter underdrain and media replacement
                      project at the water treatment plant.
77, 2020  6-18-2020   Authorizing an amendment to the city flexible benefit
                      plan.
                      Authorizing a rate stabilization agreement between the
78, 2020  6-18-2020   city and the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance Services
                      for property and liability insurance.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Cintas
79, 2020  6-18-2020   Corporation for the rental of work uniforms for a period
                      of three years.
                      Authorizing a business associate agreement between the
85, 2020  6-25-2020   city and McGregor and Associates, Inc. regarding
                      protected health information.
                      Authorizing a cafeteria and health reimbursement
86, 2020  6-25-2020   arrangement plan between the city and McGregor and
                      Associates.
                      Authorizing a COBRA agreement between the city and
87, 2020  6-25-2020   McGregor and Associates to furnish administrative
                      services regarding compliance requirements of the COBRA
                      ACT of 1985.
                      Authorizing a group health plan business associate
88, 2020  6-25-2020   agreement between the city and Anthem regarding protected
                      health information.
                      Authorizing an administrative services agreement between
89, 2020  6-25-2020   the city and Anthem for administration of certain
                      elements of the city s group health plan.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Ashland-Boyd
93, 2020  6-25-2020   County Health Department to provide and administer
                      hepatitis B and rabies vaccines to five new employees.
95, 2020  6-26-2020   Authorizing a contract between the city and Compass
                      Minerals America Inc. for the purchase of rock salt.
                      Authorizing a change order between the city and Tech
96, 2020  6-26-2020   Coat, Inc. for a contract regarding the water treatment
                      plant filter underdrain and media replacement project.
107, 2020 7-22-2020   Authorizing a contract with C.J. Hughes Construction Co.,
                      Inc. for the waterline replacement project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Tribute
111, 2020 8-13-2020   Contracting and Consultants LLC for the waterline
                      replacement project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Womack
112, 2020 8-13-2020   Excavating, LLC, for the Pollard Mills storm drain
                      gutter, curb, sidewalk and paving project.
                      Authorizing change order no. 5 between the city and
113, 2020 8-13-2020   Debcon, Inc. regarding the 16th Street Plaza, (Judd
                      Plaza) renovation project.
                      Authorizing change order no. 2 between the city and
116, 2020 8-13-2020   Granite Inliner, LLC, relating to contract for repairs on
                      Auburn Avenue and sewer cleaning on Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing a project services agreement between the city
                      and AssureCo Risk Management and Regulatory Compliance
117, 2020 8-27-2020   LLC d/b/a Municipal H2O to complete a risk and resilience
                      assessment and develop an emergency response plan for the
                      city s water system.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 6 between the
118, 2020 8-27-2020   city and Debcon, Inc. regarding the 16th Street Plaza
                      (Judd Plaza) renovation project.
                      Authorizing a School Resource Officer agreement between
119, 2020 8-27-2020   the city and the Ashland Independent School District
                      Board of Education.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and Kentucky
                      Power Company regarding the leasing of parking spaces on
124, 2020 8-27-2020   the west side of 17th Street between Winchester Avenue
                      and the alley running parallel to Winchester Avenue and
                      Greenup Avenue from 16th Street to 17th Street.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
130, 2020 9-10-2020   city and Frederick & May Construction Co., Inc. regarding
                      their contract for the Pollard Mills drainage improvement
                      project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Southern Ohio
135, 2020 9-25-2020   Trenching & Excavating for the CIPP Point repairs
                      project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 7 between the
136, 2020 9-25-2020   city and Debcon, Inc. regarding the 16th Street Plaza
                      (Judd Plaza/Broadway Square) renovation project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and American
138, 2020 - -         Suncraft Co., Inc. for the Summit Tank interior painting
                      and rehabilitation project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
139, 2020 10-22-2020  city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the 34th Street waterline replacement
                      project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Light s
141, 2020 10-23-2020  Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor and
                      materials for tree trimming for a two-year period.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Olive Hill
142, 2020 10-23-2020  Trucking, Inc. for the purchase of gravel, stone and
                      sand.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
148, 2020 10-28-2020  city and American Suncraft Co., Inc. for a contract
                      regarding the Summit Tank interior painting and
                      rehabilitation project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
149, 2020 11-20-2020  city and Frederick & May Construction Co., Inc. regarding
                      their contract for the Pollard Mills drainage improvement
                      project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
150, 2020 11-20-2020  city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc. for a
                      contract regarding the CIPP Point repairs project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
151, 2020 11-20-2020  city and Orders Construction Company, Inc. for a contract
                      for the construction of the Ashland water treatment plant
                      supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA).
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
152, 2020 11-20-2020  city and American Suncraft Co., Inc. for a contract
                      regarding the Summit Tank interior painting and
                      rehabilitation project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
155, 2020 11-20-2020  city and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the removal and
                      disposition of sludge from the wastewater treatment
                      plant.
                      Authorizing addendum no. 1 to the engineering services
156, 2020 11-20-2020  agreement between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
                      for the wastewater treatment plant expansion and
                      improvements project.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Hydratech
163, 2020 12-11-2020  Engineered Products, LLC for the installation of a carbon
                      fiber laminate on an existing 42-inch ductile iron raw
                      water pipe at the water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city and Triple B
164, 2020 12-11-2020  Construction for the removal and installation of lamella
                      modules at the water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a task order between the
2, 2021   1-28-2021   city and Strand Associates, Inc., regarding the 2020
                      annual combined sewer overflow reports.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a purchase
3, 2021   1-28-2021   agreement between the city and Sutphen Corporation for
                      the purchase of a tanker/pumper truck in the amount of
                      $510,616.31 for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
5, 2021   1-28-2021   city and Frederick and May Construction Co., Inc.
                      regarding the contract for the Debord Terrace sidewalk
                      stairs and handrail project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
6, 2021   1-28-2021   city and Tribute Contracting & Consultants LLC for the
                      contract regarding the waterline replacement project -
                      phase 1 - Simpson Road.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
11, 2021  1-29-2021   employment agreement between the City of Ashland and
                      Michael Graese regarding his continued employment as City
                      Manager.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
13, 2021  2-25-2021   city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc. for a
                      contract regarding cured-in-place pipe (CIPP) point
                      repairs project.
                      Authorizing an amendment to the agreement between the
14, 2021  2-25-2021   city and GRW Engineers, Inc. regarding a contract to
                      provide engineering services for the water treatment
                      plant SCADA design.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
17, 2021  2-26-2021   city and Frederick and May Construction Co., Inc.
                      regarding the contract for the Debord Terrace sidewalk
                      stairs and handrail project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and MAG Services LLC to
19, 2021  3-25-2021   provide electrical engineering design services for the
                      water pump station emergency generator installation
                      project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
21, 2021  3-25-2021   between the city and Boyd County Sanitary Landfill Inc.
                      (Rumpke) for the receipt and disposal of compacted
                      garbage and refuse for one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
22, 2021  3-25-2021   with USALCO, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate for
                      the Department of Utilities, Divisions of Water
                      Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
23, 2021  3-25-2021   with Shannon Chemical Corporation for the purchase of
                      potassium permanganate for the Department of Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
24, 2021  3-25-2021   with Citco Water for the purchase of sand for the
                      Department of Utilities, Divisions of Water Production
                      and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
25, 2021  3-25-2021   with Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of liquid polymer
                      and polymer cationic for the Department of Utilities,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
26, 2021  3-25-2021   with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of various
                      chemicals for the Department of Utilities, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Chemtrade Chemicals, U.S., LLC for the purchase of
27, 2021  3-25-2021   polyaluminum chloride (PAC) for the Department of
                      Utilities, Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater
                      Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a master
29, 2021  3-25-2021   services agreement between the city and VC3, Inc. for
                      professional services regarding computer system and
                      network maintenance.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a work
30, 2021  3-25-2021   order between the city and VC3, Inc. whereby VC3, Inc.
                      will become the city s Microsoft Office 365 tenant and
                      licensing provider.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
34, 2021  4-12-2021   no. 1 to the electrical engineering design services
                      agreement between the city and MAG Services, LLC for the
                      water pump station generator installation project.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
                      city and Orders Construction Company Inc. increasing the
37, 2021  4-12-2021   contract, and authorizing and approving change order no.
                      3 decreasing the contract, resulting in a new increase of
                      $46,855.90.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the Revize
39, 2021  4-12-2021   Web Services sales agreement between the city and Revize
                      LLC for a period of four years for website redesign,
                      development and implementation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an access
                      agreement between the city and River Metals Recycling LLC
44, 2021  4-23-2021   (RMR) allowing the city access to a portion of property
                      owned by RMR for the purpose of collecting samples and
                      investigating the area for future expansion of the city s
                      wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
45, 2021  4-23-2021   between the city and Morton Salt, Inc. for treated rock
                      salt for the Department of Public Services, Division of
                      Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
46, 2021  4-23-2021   agreement between the city and Peoples Insurance Agency,
                      LLC to provide property and casualty insurance broker/
                      agent placement services.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
47, 2021  4-23-2021   city and Granite Inliner, LLC increasing the contract and
                      adding a section of sanitary sewer line beneath U.S. 23
                      at Blackburn Avenue (45th Street).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
                      agreed order between the city and the Commonwealth of
49, 2021  4-23-2021   Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet, Division of
                      Enforcement, extending certain deadlines contained in the
                      agreed order.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
50, 2021  4-23-2021   between the city and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the
                      removal and disposition of sludge from the city
                      wastewater treatment plant and water treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
52, 2021  4-23-2021   between the city and Guys Flooring, LLC for labor and
                      material for the Shelter of Hope flooring project to be
                      paid from CDBG funds.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
55, 2021  5-24-2021   city and Tribute Contracting & Consultants LLC for the
                      contract regarding the waterline replacement project -
                      phase 1 - Simpson Road.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
56, 2021  5-24-2021   city and Orders Construction Company Inc. for the
                      construction of the Ashland water treatment plant
                      supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
57, 2021  5-24-2021   between the city and HACH Company for the purchase and
                      maintenance of six reagentless chlorine analyzers.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
58, 2021  5-24-2021   between the city and the Ashland-Boyd County Health
                      Department to provide and administer hepatitis B and
                      rabies vaccines to approximately five new employees.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
59, 2021  5-24-2021   agreement between the city and Dixon Engineering, Inc.
                      for professional engineering services for inspection
                      services.
                      Authorizing an amendment to the housing assistance
                      payments contract between the city and Harbor Hill, LLLP
60, 2021  5-24-2021   regarding the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development project-based assistance housing choice
                      voucher program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
61, 2021  5-24-2021   between the city and Ohio Transmission and Pump for the
                      repair of one FLYGT pump for the 6th Street pump station.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
63, 2021  5-24-2021   between the city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc. for the
                      26th Street pump station replacement pumps.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
64, 2021  5-24-2021   between the city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc. for the
                      purchase and installation of station controls for the 5th
                      Street lift station.
                      Authorizing and approving a change order between the city
66, 2021  5-24-2021   and SVI Trucks (Heritage Fire Equipment) regarding the
                      purchase of the custom fire rescue vehicle.
                      Approving a renewal with Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield
69, 2021  5-27-2021   Insurance Company for administrative fees to administer
                      the city s health insurance coverage.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
74, 2021  6-10-2021   agreement between the city and My Town TV to record,
                      broadcast and post meetings of the City Commission for a
                      period of one year.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 5 between the
75, 2021  6-11-2021   city and Orders Construction Company Inc. for the
                      construction of the Ashland water treatment plant
                      supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
76, 2021  6-11-2021   between the city and BLK Construction, LLC for all labor
                      and materials for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work through July 31, 2022.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to accept the
77, 2021  6-11-2021   proposal from CROM Coatings and Restorations (CCR) to
                      provide exterior inspection services for the DeBord Hill
                      tank located at 900 Kilgore Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
79, 2021  6-11-2021   between the city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc. for the
                      purchase and installation of eight slurry (sand) pumps
                      and motors.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
80, 2021  6-11-2021   between the city and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide
                      a public drop box recycling service for a period of three
                      years.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
82, 2021  6-11-2021   between the city and Bri-Den Company for roof replacement
                      at the city building located at 1700 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a School
92, 2021  6-25-2021   Resource Officer agreement between the city and the
                      Ashland Independent School District Board of Education
                      for the term July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 4 between the
93, 2021  6-25-2021   city and Granite Inliner, LLC increasing the contract in
                      the amount of $8,032.16 for bypass pumping and traffic
                      control during the lining of the U.S. 23 sewer line.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
94, 2021  6-25-2021   between the city and McDaniel Electric, Inc. for the
                      purchase of 12 engine-driven standby power generators.
                      Accepting a proposal for life and AD&D insurance through
100, 2021 6-25-2021   Standard Insurance Company for city employees effective
                      July 1, 2021 and authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      execute documents relating to said insurance.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
101, 2021 6-28-2021   engineering services agreement between the city and
                      Strand Associates, Inc. for the design of the 26th Street
                      pumping station rehabilitation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and GRW to provide engineering
102, 2021 6-28-2021   services for the preparation of abatement and demolition
                      bid documents for the building located at 1401 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
103, 2021 6-28-2021   between the city and County Line Companies, LLC d/b/
                      a Play Pros to install all-inclusive playground equipment
                      in Central Park.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Best Equipment Co., Inc. for the
109, 2021 8-12-2021   labor, materials and equipment to fit camera truck with
                      new equipment for the Department of Utility Operations,
                      Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Bell Engineering for
111, 2021 8-12-2021   engineering services for design of Johnson Fork, Baugess
                      Drive and Florida Street water booster station repairs
                      project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Tennis Technology, Inc. for the resurface of all
113, 2021 8-12-2021   existing tennis courts and pickleball courts and
                      conversion of one tennis court into four pickleball
                      courts in Central Park.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 6 between the
114, 2021 8-12-2021   city and Orders Construction Company, Inc. for a contract
                      for the construction of the Ashland water treatment plant
                      supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and GRW Engineers, Inc. for
117, 2021 8-26-2021   engineering services for the design of the Debord Hill
                      tank mixing system and post BCFS contact basin cover
                      projects.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
119, 2021 8-26-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (2140 Sellars
                      Street) for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
120, 2021 8-26-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (3306 Simpson
                      Road) for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
121, 2021 8-26-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (942 Belmont
                      Street and 966-968 Belmont Street) for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
122, 2021 8-26-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (1109 29th
                      Street) for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
123, 2021 8-26-2021   agreement between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc. for
                      engineering services for design of the 13th Street tank
                      rehabilitation project for the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
                      and Womack Excavating, LLC. for the purchase of all
124, 2021 9-9-2021    labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of certain property
                      (335 Spring Street) for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
125, 2021 9-9-2021    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (3430 Central
                      Avenue) for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
126, 2021 9-9-2021    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (932 Ashland
                      Avenue) for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
127, 2021 9-9-2021    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of certain property (4121 Hart
                      Street and 2221 Highlawn Street) for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Executing contract between city and Service Pump & Supply
128, 2021 9-9-2021    Co., Inc. for the raw water intake pump removal and
                      reinstallation for the Department of Utilities, Division
                      of Water Treatment Plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Southern
                      Ohio Trenching & Excavating for the waterline replacement
129, 2021 9-9-2021    project phase 2 - Belmont Street for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities, Division of Wastewater
                      Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a public transportation
130, 2021 9-9-2021    grant agreement between the city and the Kentucky
                      Transportation Cabinet for a fiscal year 2022 capital
                      state match contract grant for the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
132, 2021 9-10-2021   between the city and VC3 to provide municipal information
                      technology (IT) services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
137, 2021 9-10-2021   between the city and Amherst Madison, Inc. for the repair
                      of the 10th Street and 18th Street outfalls for the
                      Department of Public Services, Division of Floodwall.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
141, 2021 9-10-2021   Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $14,200 from the 2019 program year community development
                      block grant-CV19 funds.
                      Authorizing and approving amendment #1 between the city
142, 2021 9-10-2021   and the Shelter of Hope, the subrecipient of $5,000 from
                      the 2019 program year community development block grant-
                      CV19 funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a building
143, 2021 9-10-2021   inspector services agreement between the city and JGM
                      Consulting, LLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
145, 2021 10-14-2021  labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3038 Simpson Road
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
148, 2021 10-14-2021  Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $49,186 from the 2019
                      and 2020 program years community development block grant
                      funds.
                      Authorizing and approving amendment #1 between the city
153, 2021 10-14-2021  and the Shelter of Hope, the subrecipient of funds from
                      the 2020 program year community development block grant
                      (CDBG).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a music
154, 2021 10-14-2021  performance license agreement between the city and Sesac
                      LLC regarding the city s right to perform member works.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a lease
                      and service agreement between the city and Safe Haven
155, 2021 10-14-2021  Baby Boxes, Inc. providing for the installation of a
                      newborn safety device at the Fire Department; repealed by
                      Ord. 110, 2024.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
158, 2021 10-15-2021  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3016 Railroad Street in the
                      amount of $5,000 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
159, 2021 10-15-2021  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3017 Simpson Road in the amount
                      of $5,000 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
160, 2021 10-15-2021  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 4756 Boyd Street in the amount
                      of $6,400 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
161, 2021 10-15-2021  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3108 Central Avenue in the
                      amount of $6,400 the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
162, 2021 10-15-2021  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2224 Greenup Avenue in the
                      amount of $6,800 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
163, 2021 10-15-2021  materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 4114 Vernon Street in the amount
                      of $4,900 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the execution of a contract between the city
                      and Womack Excavating, LLC. for the purchase of all
164, 2021 10-15-2021  labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3001 Lookout
                      Street in the amount of $3,000 for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and B.L. Anderson, LLC for the purchase/
165, 2021 10-15-2021  upgrade of the Mission Scada System with on-site training
                      and startup in the amount of $53,964 for the Department
                      of Utilities, Division of Water Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with G20 Technologies, LLC for the purchase of poly-
167, 2021 10-15-2021  aluminum chloride (PAC) at a unit price of $1.86 per
                      gallon for the Department of Utilities, Division of Water
                      Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
171, 2021 11-9-2021   with BTI Contracting, Inc. in the amount of $76,700 for
                      the placement of bituminous asphalt material for the
                      Dixon Street temporary asphalt overlay project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
173, 2021 11-18-2021  between the city and Olive Hill Trucking, Inc. for the
                      purchase of gravel, stone, and sand for the Department of
                      Public Services and the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and American Ramp Company to furnish all
177, 2021 11-18-2021  labor, materials, supervision and safety to install
                      skatepark equipment in the amount of $134,000 at AK Steel
                      Sports Park for the Department of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
178, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 4832 Boyd Street in the amount
                      of $6,600 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
179, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3001 Carter Avenue in the amount
                      of $5,500 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
180, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3025 Central Avenue in the
                      amount of $4,600 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
181, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3112 Central Avenue in the
                      amount of $5,900 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
182, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 520 Cherrington Street in the
                      amount of $9,200 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
183, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2234 Cleveland Street in the
                      amount of $4,500 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
184, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2238 Griffith Street in the
                      amount of $5,200 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
185, 2021 12-9-2021   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1802 Hilton Avenue in the amount
                      of $6,000 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
186, 2021 12-9-2021   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 342 31st Street
                      in the amount of $6,000 for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
187, 2021 12-9-2021   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 503 Broom Street
                      in the amount of $4,800 for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
188, 2021 12-9-2021   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2134 Oakview Road
                      in the amount of $5,400 for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
189, 2021 12-9-2021   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2213 Sellars
                      Street in the amount of $4,680 for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
190, 2021 12-9-2021   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3320 Simpson Road
                      in the amount of $4,250 for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
191, 2021 12-9-2021   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 618 27th Street
                      in the amount of $3,700 for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
195, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Bobby s Mulch to extend the contract by 150 days
                      for the demolition of 3017 Simpson Road for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
196, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Bobby s Mulch to extend the contract by 150 days
                      for the demolition of 3306 Simpson Road for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
197, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Bobby s Mulch to extend the contract by 150 days
                      for the demolition of 3016 Railroad Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
198, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Light s Enterprises, Inc. to extend the contract
                      by 150 days for the demolition of 932 Ashland Avenue for
                      the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
199, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Light s Enterprises, Inc. to extend the contract
                      by 150 days for the demolition of 3430 Central Avenue for
                      the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
200, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Womack Excavating, LLC. to extend the contract
                      by 150 days for the demolition of 3001 Lookout Street for
                      the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
201, 2021 12-10-2021  city and Sutphen Corporation in the amount of $3,287.87
                      regarding the purchase of the custom fire pumper for the
                      Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Triple B Construction in the amount of $15,200
202, 2021 12-10-2021  for a contract regarding the removal and installation of
                      lamella modules at the water treatment plant for the
                      Department of Utilities and extending the contract 60
                      days.
                      Amending Ords. 151, 2018 and 133, 2019, to provide that
1, 2022   11-18-2021  professional services for the Pollard Mills drainage
                      improvement project be paid from the General Fund,
                      Utility Fund and community development block grant Funds.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute amendment no. 001 to the
                      agreement between the city and GRW to provide engineering
6, 2022   1-13-2022   services for the preparation of abatement and demolition
                      bid documents for the building located at 1401 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
7, 2022   1-27-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 600 27th Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
10, 2022  1-27-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2956 Hackworth Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
11, 2022  1-27-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1828 Hickman Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
12, 2022  1-27-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1532 McKnight Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
14, 2022  1-27-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3108 Mason Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
15, 2022  1-27-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2916 Moore Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
16, 2022  1-27-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3142 Bath Avenue
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
17, 2022  1-27-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3432 Greenup
                      Avenue for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
18, 2022  1-27-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2800 Hilton
                      Avenue Street for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
19, 2022  1-27-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 956 Prospect
                      Avenue for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
20, 2022  1-27-2022   agreement between the city and O Rourke Wrecking Co. for
                      the demolition of the building at 1401 Winchester Avenue
                      for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Pump & Supply, Inc. for
23, 2022  2-10-2022   the purchase and delivery of one FLOWSERVE model 23 EPM
                      raw water intake pump for the Department of Utilities,
                      Division of Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Boyd County Sanitary
24, 2022  2-10-2022   Landfill, Inc. (Rumpke) for a suitable landfill location
                      for the receipt and disposal of compacted garbage and
                      refuse, rubble and rubbish for a period of one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional services contract between the city and
25, 2022  2-24-2022   Palmer Engineering for professional engineering services
                      for the design of the 15th and 16th Street roadway/
                      streetscape improvements project for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Bluegrass Community
27, 2022  2-24-2022   Federal Credit Union regarding an encroachment for a
                      freestanding sign and ATM machine at 2321 Carter Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and County Line Companies, LLC d/b/a Play Pros for a
28, 2022  2-24-2022   contract regarding the all-inclusive playground equipment
                      in Central Park for the Department of Parks and
                      Recreation extending the contract completion date to May
                      25, 2022.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
31, 2022  4-14-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 917 Byrne Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
32, 2022  4-14-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3220 Hampton
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
33, 2022  4-14-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 1719 Harlan
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
34, 2022  4-14-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2111 Moore Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
36, 2022  4-15-2022   between the city and Mi-De-Con, Inc. for the installation
                      of an aerator motor gearbox for the Department of
                      Utilities, Division of wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      engagement letter between the city and Baker Tilly U.S.,
37, 2022  4-15-2022   LLP regarding advisory services on the preparation of a
                      classification and compensation study for the Department
                      of General Government, Division of Human Resources.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and GRW Engineers, Inc. to
39, 2022  4-15-2022   provide engineering services for design and agency
                      approvals of the 2022 water and sewer capital improvement
                      projects for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Wolf Creek Contracting for
                      the installation of sidewalks, curb and gutter and
40, 2022  4-15-2022   asphalt paving along Dixon Street for the Pollard Mills
                      infrastructure project; and authorizing and approving
                      change ord. no. 1 by decreasing the contract, for the
                      Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
41, 2022  4-15-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2323 Eltura Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
42, 2022  4-15-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1613 Hilton Avenue for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
43, 2022  4-15-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3309 Newman Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, LLC for the purchase of all
45, 2022  4-15-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 1053 29th Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of liquid
                      caustic soda, liquid sodium permanganate, powdered
49, 2022  4-15-2022   activated carbon, liquid chlorine, potassium
                      permanganate, and sodium hypochlorite for the Department
                      of Utilities, Division of Water Production and Wastewater
                      Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
50, 2022  4-15-2022   with Citco Water for the purchase of sulfur dioxide and
                      sand for the Department of Utilities, Division of Water
                      Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
51, 2022  4-15-2022   with Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of liquid polymer
                      and polymer cationic for the Department of Utilities,
                      Division of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
52, 2022  4-15-2022   with Univar Solutions for the purchase of
                      hydrofluosilicic acid for the Department of Utilities,
                      Division of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
53, 2022  4-15-2022   with USALCO, LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate for
                      the Department of Utilities, Division of Water Production
                      and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
54, 2022  4-15-2022   city and Triple B Construction, reducing the contract for
                      removing and installing lamella modules at the water
                      treatment plant for the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Triple B Construction for the Floyd
55, 2022  4-15-2022   Street pump station HVAC and exterior renovation project
                      for the Department of Utilities, Division of Water
                      Distribution.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the
56, 2022  4-15-2022   removal and disposition of sludge from the city
                      wastewater treatment plant for a period of one year for
                      the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales and
57, 2022  4-15-2022   Installation, LLC to furnish all labor, materials,
                      supervision and safety for the installation of playground
                      equipment at Dawson Pool/Park for the Department of Parks
                      and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales and
58, 2022  4-15-2022   Installation, LLC to furnish all labor, materials,
                      supervision and safety for the installation of playground
                      equipment at Wendell Banks Southside Park for the
                      Department of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Hatfield Contracting Services to
59, 2022  4-15-2022   furnish all labor, materials, supervision and safety for
                      the removal and replacement of existing fence at the
                      Oliverio Park Ball Fields for the Department of Parks and
                      Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
61, 2022  5-12-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 4132 13th Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
62, 2022  5-12-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2801 Main Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
63, 2022  5-12-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1324 Morningside Drive for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
64, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 436 31st Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
65, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 1131 Belmont
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
66, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3005 Central
                      Avenue for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
67, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3242 Condit
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
68, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 607 Gartrell
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
69, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2219 Eltura
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
70, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2251 Thomas
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
71, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 1923 High Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Womack Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all
72, 2022  5-12-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 1706 Miller
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
77, 2022  5-26-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3844 Cactus Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
78, 2022  5-26-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 1108 3rd Circle
                      Prospect for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
79, 2022  5-26-2022   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3012 Moore Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Peoples Insurance Agency,
83, 2022  5-26-2022   LLC to provide property and casualty insurance broker/
                      agent placement services from July 1, 2022 to June 30,
                      2023.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a short
                      form agreement between the city and HDR Engineering, Inc.
86, 2022  6-9-2022    for professional engineering services for the design and
                      agency approvals of the Dawes Street Rehabilitation
                      Project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Approving a renewal with Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield
                      Insurance Company for administrative fees to administer
88, 2022  6-9-2022    the city s health insurance coverage, vision insurance,
                      Delta Dental of Kentucky insurance and stop loss coverage
                      for July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023.
89, 2022  6-9-2022    Approving the renewal for life and AD and D insurance.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and NewTech Systems, Inc. for the
101, 2022 6-10-2022   purchase of all labor, equipment, software and materials
                      as required to install a camera security system for
                      Central Park, AK Steel Sports Park and Oliverio Park for
                      the Department of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
105, 2022 6-24-2022   between the city and Leighty Contracting, LLC for the
                      concrete sidewalk grinding - sidewalk trip hazard repair
                      project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional services contract between the city and
109, 2022 6-24-2022   Palmer Engineering for professional engineering services
                      for the design of the Winchester Avenue 13th Street to
                      18th Street roadway/streetscape improvements project for
                      the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      professional services contract between the city and
                      Palmer Engineering for professional engineering services
110, 2022 6-24-2022   for the design of the Winchester Avenue 7th Street to
                      12th Street and 18th Street to 21st street roadway/
                      streetscape improvements project for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
112, 2022 6-24-2022   between the city and Garage Door Operators for the
                      purchase and installation of a garage door system at
                      Central Fire Station for the Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and the Ashland-Boyd County Health
128, 2022 7-28-2022   Department to provide and administer hepatitis B vaccines
                      to approximately five new employees for the Department of
                      Human Resources.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
129, 2022 7-28-2022   between the city and Cargill Incorporated - Salt for the
                      purchase of treated rock salt for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and BLK Construction, LLC for all labor
130, 2022 7-28-2022   and materials for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work for the Departments of Public Services and
                      Utilities.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
131, 2022 7-29-2022   city and Bobby s Mulch decreasing the contract for the
                      demolition of 2323 Eltura Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a School
133, 2022 7-29-2022   Resource Officer agreement between the city and the
                      Ashland Independent School District Board of Education
                      for the term July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Hatfield Contracting Services to
136, 2022 7-29-2022   furnish all labor, materials, supervision and safety for
                      the replacement and installation of new fencing at the
                      Central Park tennis and pickleball courts for the
                      Department of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
141, 2022 8-25-2022   between the city and Southern Ohio Trenching and
                      Excavating for the downtown area sidewalk replacement
                      project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and BTI Contracting, Inc. for the
142, 2022 8-25-2022   placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the FY2023 street paving program for the Department
                      of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
146, 2022 8-25-2022   agreement between the city and My Town TV to record,
                      broadcast and post meetings of the Ashland City
                      Commission for a period of one year.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
159, 2022 9-22-2022   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 501 Broom Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
163, 2022 9-23-2022   professional services contract between the city and
                      Raftelis Financial Consultants, Inc. for the preparation
                      of a strategic plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a purchase
                      order agreement between the city and Mi-De-Con, Inc. to
164, 2022 9-23-2022   supply equipment and labor to remove two broken aerator
                      blades and replace said blades for the Department of
                      Utilities, Division of wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
166, 2022 10-14-2022  between the City of Ashland and Prichard Lawncare, Inc.
                      for the purchase of all labor and materials for tree
                      trimming for a two-year period.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
176, 2022 11-17-2022  between the city and Olive Hill Trucking, Inc. for the
                      purchase of gravel, stone and sand.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
181, 2022 12-15-2022  between the city and Thoroughbred Construction Group,
                      LLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
182, 2022 12-15-2022  between the city and Rossman Enterprises, Inc., d/b/
                      a MagneGrip.
183, 2022 12-15-2022  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and All-American Fire Equipment, Inc.
                      Amending the City of Ashland flexible spending plan
187, 2022 12-15-2022  adopted by Ord. 86, 2020, as recommended by McGregor and
                      Associates, Inc. pursuant to federal guidelines.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
190, 2022 12-19-2022  employee assistance program management agreement between
                      the city and Ashland Hospital Corporation d/b/a UK King s
                      Daughters.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
191, 2022 12-19-2022  between the city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales and
                      Installation, LLC.
194, 2022 12-19-2022  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
1, 2023   1-26-2023   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 3008 Railroad
                      Street for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
2, 2023   1-26-2023   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1233 Gallaher Drive for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
3, 2023   1-26-2023   city and Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc.
                      decreasing the amount of the contract for the waterline
                      replacement project phase 2 - Belmont Street.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
4, 2023   1-26-2023   city and Wolf Creek Contracting decreasing the amount of
                      the contract for the Pollard Mills infrastructure project
                      - phase 2.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
5, 2023   1-26-2023   agreement for technical services between the city and
                      Strand Associates, Inc. for preparation of the annual
                      2022 combined sewer overflow reports.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment to the employee assistance program management
13, 2023  2-9-2023    agreement between the city and Ashland Hospital
                      Corporation d/b/a UK King s Daughters adopted by Ord.
                      190, 2022.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit an
14, 2023  2-9-2023    application to FEMA for the assistance to firefighters
                      grant for the purchase of a 4 by 4 brush truck/attack
                      truck for the Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a ticket
                      reseller agreement between the city and Flixbus Inc.
15, 2023  2-9-2023    designating the city as its non-exclusive agent allow the
                      city to sell bus tickets at the Ashland Transportation
                      Center.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
16, 2023  2-9-2023    between the city and Boyd County Sanitary Landfill, Inc.
                      (Rumpke) for a suitable landfill location for the receipt
                      and disposal of compacted garbage and refuse.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
18, 2023  2-23-2023   between the city and Tribute Contracting and Consultants
                      LLC for the waterline replacement project - phase 2 -
                      U.S. 23 water main.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
19, 2023  2-9-2023    between the city and Hach Company for the purchase and
                      maintenance of six reagentless chlorine analyzers for the
                      Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2023
20, 2023  2-23-2023   grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the Ashland Bus System and authorizing
                      execution of all documents necessary.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Franklin H. Hager and
21, 2023  2-23-2023   Johnda P. Burton regarding an encroachment for a
                      freestanding sign for Timeless Reflections located at
                      1527 Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit and
                      application to FEMA for the assistance to firefighters
22, 2023  2-23-2023   grant for a mobile air trailer for the Fire Department;
                      and authorizing the Mayor to execute all documents
                      relating to said grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
24, 2023  3-9-2023    engagement letter with Frost Brown Todd Attorneys to
                      provide legal services in connection with developing a
                      conference center at 1401 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
26, 2023  3-9-2023    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2724 Montgomery Avenue for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a grant
                      application for funding the hiring of three additional
29, 2023  3-9-2023    firefighters through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and
                      Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program and authorizing
                      execution of all documents regarding said grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
30, 2023  3-23-2023   between the city and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. for the
                      removal and disposition of sludge from the city
                      wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
32, 2023  3-24-2023   city and O Rourke Wrecking Company decreasing the amount
                      of the contract for the demolition of 1401 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
33, 2023  3-24-2023   city and Thoroughbred Construction Group, LLC increasing
                      the amount of the contract for the water treatment plant
                      roof replacement project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and T2 Systems Inc. for the purchase of
34, 2023  3-24-2023   parking enforcement equipment, software, infrastructure
                      support and payment kiosks for downtown and parking
                      garage parking.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit and
                      application to the Kentucky Energy and Environment
35, 2023  3-24-2023   Cabinet for the 2023-2024 Kentucky Pride Fund household
                      hazardous waste management grant for the Department of
                      Public Services; and authorizing the execution of grant
                      documents.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
39, 2023  4-27-2023   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2412 Roberts Drive for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
40, 2023  4-27-2023   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 313-1/2 Spring Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
41, 2023  4-27-2023   with Citco Water for the purchase of liquid chlorine,
                      sulfur dioxide, sand and sodium hypochlorite for the
                      Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
42, 2023  4-27-2023   with Evonik Active Oxygens for the purchase of peracetic
                      acid for the Department of Utility Operations.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
43, 2023  4-27-2023   with Carbon Activated Corporation for the purchase of
                      activated carbon for the Department of Utility
                      Operations.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of liquid polymer
44, 2023  4-27-2023   for the water treatment plant and for the wastewater
                      treatment plant and polymer cationic for the Department
                      of Utility Operations.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
45, 2023  4-27-2023   with S4 Water Sales and Service, LLC for the purchase of
                      liquid sodium permanganate and potassium permanganate for
                      the Department of Utility Operations.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
46, 2023  4-27-2023   with USALCO, LLC, for the purchase of aluminum sulfate
                      (liquid) and poly-aluminum chloride (PAC) for the
                      Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
47, 2023  4-27-2023   with Univar Solutions for the purchase of
                      hydrofluosilicic acid and liquid caustic soda for the
                      Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Erin Hutchinson regarding
48, 2023  4-27-2023   an encroachment for a freestanding sign and patio seating
                      for Cargo House Pizza located at 2415 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
50, 2023  4-28-2023   with Mueller Electric LLC for the purchase and
                      installation of a generator at Station #2 for the Ashland
                      Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bluegrass Recreation Sales and Installation, LLC for
52, 2023  4-28-2023   the purchase, preparation and installation of playground
                      equipment and surface at East Central Park for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
57, 2023  4-28-2023   between the city and Midwest Tank Management, LLC for the
                      Debord Hill Tank mixing system.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
59, 2023  5-15-2023   agreement between the city and Peoples Insurance Agency,
                      LLC to provide property and casualty insurance services.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a purchase
61, 2023  5-25-2023   agreement between the city and Sutphen Corporation for
                      the purchase of a Sutphen SPH 100 mid-mount aerial
                      platform for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
62, 2023  5-26-2023   no. 2 to the agreement between the city and HDR
                      Engineering, Inc. for professional services for the
                      Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
63, 2023  5-26-2023   agreement between the city and Pathways Inc. regarding an
                      encroachment for a freestanding sign at 330 25th Street
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Cintas Corporation for the rental of
74, 2023  6-15-2023   work uniforms for three years for the Departments of
                      Public Services, Engineering, Utilities, Parks and
                      Recreation, and Code Enforcement.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
76, 2023  6-15-2023   professional services agreement between the city and E.L.
                      Robinson Engineering Company, Inc. for the Ashland City
                      Building upgrades.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
77, 2023  6-15-2023   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 616 26th Street
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
78, 2023  6-15-2023   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3009 Cresent Street for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Approving a renewal with Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield
80, 2023  6-15-2023   Insurance Company for administrative fees to administer
                      the city s health insurance coverage, vision insurance
                      and stop loss coverage.
                      Approving a renewal with Delta Dental of Kentucky PPO
81, 2023  6-15-2023   Plus Premier for the administration of the city s dental
                      insurance coverage.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Cargill Incorporated - Salt for the
83, 2023  6-23-2023   purchase of approximately 1,000 tons of treated rock salt
                      in the amount of $92.85 per ton for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Streets.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and the Bri-Den Company, Inc. for the
84, 2023  6-23-2023   valve house roof and truss replacement in the amount of
                      $31,700 for the Department of Utility Operations,
                      Division of Water Production.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
89, 2023  6-23-2023   participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
                      Insurance Services General Insurance Trust for FY 2023-
                      2024 in the amount of $761,503.65.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and the Bri-Den Company, Inc. for the
94, 2023  7-27-2023   box gutter purchase and installation project at the
                      Ashland Transportation Center in the amount of $77,300
                      for the Department of Finance, Division of Mass Transit.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and the Ashland-Boyd County Health
95, 2023  7-27-2023   Department to provide and administer hepatitis B vaccines
                      to approximately five new employees at a cost of $249 per
                      employee for the Department of Human Resources.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment to the agreement authorized by Ord. 138, 2018,
97, 2023  7-28-2023   between the city and GRW Engineers, Inc. increasing the
                      agreement in the amount of $78,972 regarding a contract
                      to provide engineering services for the water treatment
                      plant SCADA project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 7 (final)
                      between the city and Orders Construction Company Inc.
                      increasing the contract amount by $76,647.23 and
98, 2023  7-28-2023   extending the completion date for a contract for the
                      construction of the Ashland water treatment plant
                      supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA)
                      for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and A Plus Contractors LLC for the
99, 2023  7-28-2023   replacement and reconfiguration of emergency generators
                      for ten water pump station locations in the amount of
                      $650,000 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute amendment
                      no. 1 to the agreement between the city and HDR
100, 2023 7-28-2023   Engineering, Inc. for engineering services for design of
                      the 13th Street tank rehabilitation project increasing
                      the contract in the amount of $189,250 for the Department
                      of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and C.J. Hughes Construction Col, Inc.
101, 2023 7-28-2023   for the Pollard Mills infrastructure project - phase 3 in
                      the amount of $489,724.50 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a merchant
103, 2023 7-28-2023   application and agreement with Cardconnect LLC for credit
                      card payment services for parking kiosks for the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with the Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc. d/
104, 2023 7-28-2023   b/a Ashland Senior Center, the subrecipient of $15,000
                      from the 2023 program year community development block
                      grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
105, 2023 7-28-2023   agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
                      of $15,000 from the 2023 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
106, 2023 7-28-2023   agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $5,000 from the 2023 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
107, 2023 7-28-2023   agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $5,000 from the program year 2023
                      community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
108, 2023 7-28-2023   agreement with Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $15,000 from the 2023 program year
                      community development block grant (CDBG).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Natare Corporation for the purchase
109, 2023 7-28-2023   and installation of pool lining at Dawson Pool in the
                      amount of $147,596 for the Department of Parks and
                      Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute order
                      document #1, screening services, between the city and MRI
                      Real Estate Software (Residentcheck LLC) to perform
110, 2023 7-28-2023   assisted housing background checks in the amount of $10
                      per applicant for the Housing Choice Voucher Program
                      (Section 8) in Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city Department of Engineering and Tribute Contracting &
                      Consultants LLC for the contract regarding the waterline
113, 2023 7-28-2023   replacement project - phase 2-B - U.S. 23 modifying
                      general conditions Article 7 which will result in a
                      decrease in the amount of the contract due to exempted
                      state sales tax.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
115, 2023 8-24-2023   agreement with the Salvation Army of Ashland, the
                      subrecipient of $17,522.89 from the program year 2023
                      community development block grant for case management.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and My Town TV to record,
116, 2023 8-24-2023   broadcast and post meetings of the Ashland City
                      Commission for a period of one year in the amount of
                      $12,000.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
117, 2023 8-24-2023   city and VC3 for a contract to provide municipal
                      information technology (IT) services increasing the
                      contract by $833.33 per month and a one-time fee of $300.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment to the agreement between the city and Kentucky
                      Power Company adopted by Ord. 124, 2020, regarding the
118, 2023 8-24-2023   leasing of parking spaces on the west side of 17th Street
                      between Winchester Avenue and the alley running parallel
                      to Winchester Avenue and Greenup Avenue from 16th Street
                      to 17th Street.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
                      city Department of Engineering, and Tribute Contracting &
119, 2023 8-24-2023   Consultants LLC for the contract regarding the waterline
                      replacement project - phase 2-B - U.S. 23 decreasing the
                      contract in the amount of $40,369.25 for the Department
                      of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and BTI Contracting Inc. for the
120, 2023 8-24-2023   placement and replacement of bituminous asphalt material
                      for the FY 2024 street paving program in the amount of
                      $1,511,550 for the city Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient
121, 2023 8-24-2023   of $32,000 from the 2023 program year community
                      development block grant for employment/education case
                      management.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and BLK Construction, LLC for all labor
122, 2023 8-24-2023   and materials for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt
                      repair work for the Departments of Public Services and
                      Utilities through July 31, 2024 in the amount of
                      $683,475.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      subscription services agreement between the city and
123, 2023 8-24-2023   MyGov, LLC for continued use of an internet based
                      software in the amount of $21,840 annually for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
127, 2023 9-14-2023   agreement between the city and Allard Excavation, LLC in
                      the amount of $7,247,275.01 for the Winchester Avenue
                      improvements project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
128, 2023 9-14-2023   agreement between the city and Sourcewell/Pitney Bowes in
                      the amount of $163,566.67 for the purchase of software
                      maintenance services for the Department of Finance.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
130, 2023 9-28-2023   city and BLK Construction, LLC in the amount of $3,400
                      regarding miscellaneous asphalt and concrete repair work
                      through July 31, 2024 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
131, 2023 9-28-2023   between the city and C.J. Hughes Construction Col, Inc.
                      for the Oakview Road Culvert Replacement Project in the
                      amount of $173,500 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing Mayor Pro-Tem to execute an
133, 2023 9-28-2023   agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $10,000 for operating costs from the
                      2023 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
134, 2023 9-28-2023   Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $15,000 for operating
                      costs from the 2023 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
135, 2023 9-28-2023   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      demolition and removal of all debris of 2820 Main Street
                      in the amount of $4,200 for the Department of Community
                      and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
136, 2023 9-28-2023   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2824 Main Street in the amount
                      of $5,300 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a U.S.
                      Department of Transportation grant agreement under the
139, 2023 10-6-2023   fiscal year 2022 Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A)
                      grant program for $200,000, of which the federal share is
                      to be $160,000, and the city share is to be $40,000.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Bobby s Mulch for the purchase of all labor,
140, 2023 10-6-2023   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 4013 Skidmore Street in the
                      amount of $3,800 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
                      city and Thoroughbred Construction Group, LLC, decreasing
141, 2023 10-6-2023   the amount of the contract for the water treatment plant
                      roof replacement project in the amount of $18,342.99 for
                      the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a School
142, 2023 10-6-2023   Resource Officer agreement between the city and the
                      Ashland Independent School District Board of Education
                      retroactive to July 1, 2023.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and the Speer Corporation for the
143, 2023 10-6-2023   purchase and installation of a pool filtration system for
                      Dawson Pool in the amount of $316,214 for the Department
                      of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute a contract
144, 2023 10-12-2023  between the city and General Contracting Services, Inc.,
                      for the Fire Department station no. 2 roof project in the
                      amount of $297.867.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Tri-State Fencing, Inc., for the
145, 2023 10-26-2023  purchase and installation of a fence at the Ashland
                      Cemetery in the amount of $116,640 for the Department of
                      Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Van Art Properties LLC
146, 2023 10-26-2023  regarding an encroachment for the placement of a trash
                      dumpster located on Cypress Court in the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute an
147, 2023 10-26-2023  agreement between the City of Ashland and the City of
                      Russell to furnish potable water within its water
                      distribution system.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute an
148, 2023 10-26-2023  agreement between the city and the Highlands Museum and
                      Discovery Center regarding the donation of $100,000 for
                      the Clark Family Discovery Center.
                      Authorizing and directing to Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Mechanical Construction Company for
149, 2023 10-26-2023  the water treatment plant geodesic dome tank cover
                      project in the amount of $890,000 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Palmer Engineering for construction
159, 2023 11-16-2023  inspection and construction administration for the 7th
                      Street to 13th Street and the 18th Street to 22nd Street
                      roadway/streetscape improvements in the amount of
                      $105,000 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Palmer Engineering for construction
160, 2023 11-16-2023  inspection and construction administration for the 13th
                      Street to 18th Street roadway/streetscape improvements in
                      the amount of $105,000 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Palmer Engineering for construction
161, 2023 11-16-2023  inspection and construction administration for the 13th
                      Street to 18th Street roadway/streetscape improvements in
                      the amount of $140,000 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
165, 2023 12-14-2023  employment agreement between the city and Michael Graese
                      for his continued employment as City Manager.
                      Amending the City of Ashland flexible spending plan
166, 2023 12-14-2023  adopted by Ord. 86, 2020, as recommended by McGregor and
                      Associates, Inc. pursuant to federal guidelines.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute task order
                      no. 24-01 between the city and Strand Associates, Inc.,
167, 2023 12-15-2023  regarding 2023 annual combined sewer overflow reports for
                      the Department of Utility Operations in an amount not to
                      exceed $18,000.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      construction contract between the city and Leighty
168, 2023 12-15-2023  Contracting, LLC, for the concrete sidewalk replacement
                      project - phase II, in the amount of $1,067,065.50 for
                      the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
169, 2023 12-15-2023  construction contract between the city and Rite Lite
                      Signs, Inc., for the Ashland City entrance project in the
                      amount of $141,841.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Coordinated Systems Consulting,
170, 2023 12-15-2023  Inc., for the 42-inch raw water lines rehabilitation
                      project in the amount of $271,600 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
172, 2023 12-15-2023  between the city and BWC Trucking for the purchase of
                      gravel, stone and sand for Department of Public Services
                      and the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the Fire Department and Fire Facilities, Inc.,
173, 2023 12-15-2023  for the purchase of building materials for the Fire Tower
                      Expansion Project in the amount of $81,644, of which
                      $75,000 is to be paid by a Kentucky Fire Commission
                      grant, and $6,000 is to be paid by the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and General Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. for
1, 2024   1-25-2024   the replacement of six HVAC units at the neighborhood in
                      the amount of $102,500 to be paid by community
                      development block grant (CDBG) funds for the Department
                      of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply for the 45th Street pump
2, 2024   1-25-2024   station duplex control and lighting upgrade in the amount
                      of $18,421 for the Department of Utilities, Division of
                      Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply for the Ashland High
3, 2024   1-25-2024   service pump VFDs in the amount of $271,592.80 for the
                      Department of Utilities, Division of Water Treatment
                      Plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
4, 2024   1-25-2024   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1620 Belmont Street in the
                      amount of $5,200 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
5, 2024   1-25-2024   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 322 Ringo Street in the amount
                      of $4,400 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Evonik Corporation in the amount of $2,500 and
6, 2024   1-25-2024   extending the contract for a period of one year for the
                      purchase of peracetic acid at a price of $0.777 per pound
                      for the Department of Utility Operations, Divisions of
                      Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
9, 2024   1-25-2024   city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for the
                      Oakview Road culvert replacement project decreasing the
                      contract in the amount of $29,136.76.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and A Plus Contractors LLC for the replacement and
10, 2024  1-25-2024   reconfiguration of emergency generators for ten water
                      pump station locations increasing the contract in the
                      amount of $9,650 and extending the contract 90 days.
                      Authorizing the Mayor Pro-Tem to execute a five-year
                      extension to the housing assistance payments contract
                      between the city and Harbor Hill, LLLP regarding the U.S.
12, 2024  1-25-2024   Department of Housing and Urban Development project-based
                      assistance housing choice voucher program for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development adopted
                      by Ord. 104, 2009, and previously extended by Ord. 100,
                      2019.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
13, 2024  1-25-2024   city and Garage Door Operators for the garage door system
                      at Ashland Fire Department Central Station decreasing the
                      contract in the amount of $10,000.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
14, 2024  1-25-2024   city and C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. for the
                      Pollard Mills infrastructure project, phase 3, decreasing
                      the contract in the amount of $17,765.47.
                      Authorizing the Mayor Pro-Tem to execute an agreement
                      with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the
15, 2024  2-8-2024    subrecipient of $21,361.68 for employment/education case
                      management from the 2023 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute an agreement with
                      Community Assistance Referral Service, Inc. (CARES), the
16, 2024  2-8-2024    subrecipient of $27,561.44 for employment/education case
                      management from the 2023 program year community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and General Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. for
17, 2024  2-8-2024    the replacement of one HVAC unit at the Ashland Senior
                      Center in the amount of $9,000 to be paid by community
                      development block grant (CDBG) funds for the Department
                      of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
18, 2024  2-8-2024    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 2434 Clinton Street in the
                      amount of $3,600 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
19, 2024  2-8-2024    materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3013 Central Avenue in the
                      amount of $3,200 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 (final)
20, 2024  2-8-2024    between the city and Midwest Tank Management, LLC for the
                      Debord hill tank mixing system decreasing the contract in
                      the amount of $75,000.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a purchase agreement
27, 2024  2-8-2024    between the city and Sutphen Corporation for the purchase
                      of a Sutphen heavy monarch package fire truck in the
                      amount of $1,038,056 for the Ashland Fire Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract for services
                      between the city and Linebach Funkhouser, Inc. in the
                      amount of $457,010 for various professional environmental
28, 2024  2-22-2024   and engineering services associated with the community-
                      wide Brownfield assessment grant provided by the U.S.
                      Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) for the
                      Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
29, 2024  2-22-2024   city and Service Pump & Supply in the amount of $42,390
                      for repair of the vac truck for the Department of
                      Utilities, Division of Wastewater Collection.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply in the amount of $65,704
30, 2024  2-22-2024   for the raw water intake pump removal and spare
                      reinstallation for the Department of Utilities, Division
                      of Water Production.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
31, 2024  2-22-2024   city and Bobby s Mulch extending the contract for the
                      demolition and clearance of 2824 Main Street to March 17,
                      2024.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
32, 2024  2-22-2024   city and Bobby s Mulch extending the contract for the
                      demolition and clearance of 4013 Skidmore Street to March
                      17, 2024.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a lease agreement
34, 2024  2-22-2024   between the city and Acme Auto Leasing, LLC for the
                      leasing of vehicles used for special investigations for
                      the Ashland Police Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Womack
                      Excavating, LLC for the purchase of all labor, materials,
36, 2024  2-23-2024   equipment and services for the demolition and removal of
                      all debris of 3005 Lookout Street in the amount of $3,000
                      for the Department of Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
                      Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc., the subrecipient of
37, 2024  2-23-2024   $9,000 from the 2023 program year community development
                      block grant for replacement of one HVAC unit at the
                      Ashland Senior Center by General Heating and Air
                      Conditioning, Inc.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute an agreement with
                      Neighbors Helping Neighbors, Inc., the subrecipient of
38, 2024  2-23-2024   $102,500 from the 2023 program year community development
                      block grant for replacement of six HVAC units at the
                      neighborhood by General Heating and Air Conditioning,
                      Inc.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Boyd County Sanitary Landfill, Inc. (Rumpke) for
                      a suitable landfill location for the receipt and disposal
39, 2024  2-23-2024   of compacted garbage and refuse, rubble and rubbish,
                      collected by the city for a period of one year in an
                      amount not to exceed $21.24 per ton for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Womack
                      Excavating, LLC for the removal, disposal and cleanup of
40, 2024  2-23-2024   all debris at 3100 Central Avenue in the amount of
                      $38,900 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a codification
41, 2024  2-23-2024   agreement between the city and American Legal Publishing,
                      LLC in the amount of $29,750.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
42, 2024  3-28-2024   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 1825 Belmont Street in the
                      amount of $5,800 for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
43, 2024  3-28-2024   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 4116 Hart Street in the amount
                      of $3,800 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
44, 2024  3-28-2024   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 462 29th Street in the amount of
                      $27,950 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an access agreement
                      between the city and Cleveland-Cliffs Steel Corporation
                      allowing the city access to property located at 23rd and
45, 2024  3-28-2024   Front Street as parcel 4 of the Norton Landfill owned by
                      Cliffs for the purpose of staging construction trailers
                      and construction materials for the expansion of the city
                      s wastewater treatment plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Republic Services, Inc. (Green Valley Landfill)
46, 2024  3-28-2024   for the removal and disposition of sludge from the city s
                      wastewater treatment plant and water treatment plant for
                      a period of one year in the amount of $295,680 for the
                      Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amendment to the
                      agreement for engineering services between the city and
                      Bell Engineering increasing the contract in the amount of
47, 2024  3-28-2024   $10,500 and increasing the time by 60 days for the
                      Johnson Fork, Baugess Drive and Florida Street water
                      booster station repairs project for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute amendment no. 1 to the
                      agreement between the city and GRW Engineers, Inc. to
                      provide engineering services in connection with the
48, 2024  4-5-2024    design, construction and agency approvals of the 2022
                      water and sewer capital improvements project for the
                      Department of Engineering increasing the contract in the
                      amount of $9,855.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute and submit a grant
                      application to the KYOVA Interstate Planning Commission
                      for a surface transportation block grant (STBG) in the
49, 2024  4-5-2024    amount of $50,000 for the multimodal transportation
                      center project for the Department of Engineering and if
                      awarded, authorizing and directing the Mayor, to execute
                      on behalf of the city any and all documents associated
                      with the grant and its acceptance.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for the purchase of liquid
                      caustic soda at a price of $1.1250 per gallon, powdered
50, 2024  4-5-2024    activated carbon at a price of $1.25 per pound, liquid
                      chlorine at a price of $1,680 per ton and sodium
                      hypochlorite at a price of $2.04 per gallon for the
                      Department of Utilities, Divisions of Water Production
                      and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Citco Water for the purchase of sulfur dioxide at a
51, 2024  4-5-2024    price of $1,075 per ton and sand at a price of $0.11 per
                      pound for the Department of Utilities, Divisions of Water
                      Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
                      Polydyne, Inc. for the purchase of liquid polymer for the
                      water treatment plant at a price of $12.556 per gallon
52, 2024  4-5-2024    and for the wastewater treatment plant at a price of
                      $11.954 per gallon, and polymer cationic at a price of
                      $1.94 per pound for the Department of Utility Operations,
                      Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shannon
                      Chemical Corporation for the purchase of potassium
53, 2024  4-5-2024    permanganate in the amount of $3.17 per pound for the
                      Department of Utilities, Divisions of Water Production
                      and Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Univar
                      Solutions USA Inc. for the purchase of hydrofluosilicic
54, 2024  4-5-2024    acid at a price of $3.50 per gallon for the Department of
                      Utilities, Divisions of Water Production and Wastewater
                      Treatment.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with USALCO,
                      LLC for the purchase of aluminum sulfate (liquid) at a
55, 2024  4-5-2024    price of $1.5818 per gallon and polyaluminum chloride
                      (PAC) at a price of $2.8215 per gallon for the Department
                      of Utilities, Divisions of Water Production and
                      Wastewater Treatment.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 in the
                      contract authorized by Ord. 109, 2023 between the city
63, 2024  4-12-2024   and Natare Corporation for the Dawson pool lining project
                      increasing the contract in the amount of $110,718 for the
                      purchase and installation of a perimeter recirculation
                      system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contracting services
65, 2024  4-12-2024   agreement between the city and Kentucky Power Company for
                      electrical contracting services through December 31,
                      2029.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
66, 2024  4-12-2024   city and Spear Corporation for the Dawson pool filtration
                      system project increasing the contract in the amount of
                      $224,954 for the Department of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2024
69, 2024  5-9-2024    grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the Ashland Bus System and authorizing
                      execution of all documents necessary.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an opioid litigation
70, 2024  5-9-2024    funding agreement amendment between the city and Ramey-
                      Estep Homes, Inc. regarding use of national prescription
                      opioid litigation funds.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
71, 2024  5-9-2024    city and CTB, Inc. for the City Hall exterior upgrades -
                      17th Street entrance upgrade project in the amount of
                      $106,998 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a letter of agreement
                      between the city and Fivco Area Development District
72, 2024  5-9-2024    setting forth the duties of Fivco ADD as project
                      administrator for the sewer treatment plant enlargement
                      project pursuant to Ord. 61, 2024.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      conditional commitment letter for a state infrastructure
                      authority loan for the city s lead service line inventory
74, 2024  5-9-2024    and assessment project in an amount not to exceed
                      $874,130 for the Department of Engineering; and upon
                      meeting certain conditions, authorizing and directing the
                      Mayor, to execute on behalf of the city any and all
                      documents associated with the loan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a contract between the
                      city and CTB, Inc. for the Ashland Senior Center
75, 2024  5-23-2024   storefront rehabilitation project in the amount of
                      $149,673 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development to be paid from community development block
                      grant funds.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a construction contract
                      between the city and Leighty Contracting, LLC for the
76, 2024  5-23-2024   Ashland water treatment plant ramp widening project in
                      the amount of $80,654.80 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Peoples Insurance Agency, LLC to provide
77, 2024  5-23-2024   property and casualty insurance broker/agent placement
                      services from July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025 in the
                      amount of $14,000 and authorizing payment of same.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a trust participation
                      agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance
78, 2024  5-23-2024   Services General Insurance Trust for FY 2024-2025 and
                      payment of property and casualty premiums in the amount
                      of $788,428.29.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a letter of agreement
                      between the city and Fivco Area Development District
79, 2024  5-23-2024   setting forth the duties of Fivco ADD as project
                      administrator for the lead service line inventory and
                      assessment project pursuant to Ord. 74, 2024.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. to provide a public
80, 2024  5-29-2024   drop box recycling service for a period of three years in
                      the amount of $250 per box per month to be emptied a
                      minimum of two times per week for the Department of
                      Public Services, Division of Sanitation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating, Inc. for
81-2024   5-29-2024   the Chestnut Drive sanitary sewer and waterline
                      replacement project in the amount of $383,953 for the
                      Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
83, 2024  5-29-2024   engagement letter with Frost Brown Todd Attorneys to
                      provide legal services in connection with developing a
                      conference center.
                      Approving a renewal with Anthem Blue Cross/Blue Shield
                      Insurance Company for administrative fees to administer
94, 2024  6-14-2024   the city s health insurance coverage, vision insurance
                      and stop loss coverage for plan year July 1, 2024 through
                      June 30, 2025.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
                      Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc., the subrecipient of
95, 2024  6-14-2024   $167,673 from the community development block grant
                      program for storefront rehabilitation at the Ashland
                      Senior Center by CTB, Inc.
                      Approving the 2024 rent increase for Harbor Hill
96, 2024  6-14-2024   Apartments effective August 1, 2024 for the city s
                      Department of Community and Economic Development,
                      Division of Assisted Housing (Section 8).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute amendment #1 to the
97, 2024  6-14-2024   employment agreement between the city and Michael Graese
                      regarding his continued employment as City Manager
                      adopted by Ord. 165, 2023.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
98, 2024  6-14-2024   city and Allard Excavation LLC for the Winchester Avenue
                      improvements project increasing the contract in the
                      amount of $537,494.72 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute amendment #1 to the
                      professional services agreement adopted by Ord. 160,
                      2023, between the city and Palmer Engineering for
99, 2024  6-14-2024   professional engineering services for the construction
                      inspection/construction administration for the 13th
                      Street to 18th Street roadway/streetscape improvements
                      for the Department of Engineering in the additional
                      amount of $55,000, increasing the total to $160,000.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute amendment #1 to the
                      professional services agreement adopted by Ord. 161,
                      2023, between the city and Palmer Engineering for
100, 2024 6-14-2024   professional engineering services for the construction
                      inspection/construction administration for the 13th
                      Street to 18th Street roadway/streetscape improvements
                      for the Department of Engineering in the additional
                      amount of $20,000, increasing the total to $160,000.
                      Approving minority loan no. 2024-M-002 to Tracemark, LLC
101, 2024 6-14-2024   in the amount of $40,000 to be paid from the 2023 program
                      year community development block grant (CDBG) and
                      authorizing the Mayor to execute loan documents.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a bill of sale between
                      the city and Kentucky Power Company for the purchase of
104, 2024 6-14-2024   the streetlight poles located on the east side of 15th
                      Street, the west side of 16th Street and the north and
                      south sides of Winchester Avenue in the 1500, 1600 and
                      1700 blocks.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and the Ashland-Boyd County Health Department to
107, 2024 6-27-2024   provide and administer hepatitis B vaccines to
                      approximately five new employees at a cost of $249 per
                      employee for the Department of Human Resources.
                      Authorizing and approving an additional vision coverage
108, 2024 6-27-2024   allowance for all non-fire union employees in an amount
                      not to exceed $300 per plan member administered by the
                      Department of Human Resources effective July 1, 2024.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Light s
                      Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all labor,
109, 2024 6-27-2024   materials, equipment and services for the demolition and
                      removal of all debris of 3032 Carter Avenue in the amount
                      of $5,650 for the Department of Community and Economic
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a lease and service
                      agreement between the city and Safe Haven Baby Boxes,
110, 2024 6-28-2024   Inc. providing for the installation of a newborn safety
                      device at the city s Fire Department in an initial amount
                      of $15,000 and $500 annually and repealing Ord. 155,
                      2021.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
111, 2024 6-28-2024   city and Morton Salt, Inc. for the purchase of up to
                      1,000 tons of treated rock salt at $93 per ton for the
                      department of public services, division of streets.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Bluegrass Recreation Sales and Installation, LLC
112, 2024 6-28-2024   increasing the contract amount by $2,500 for the East
                      Central Park Playground project for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and BHG Ashland Real Estate # 1, LLC regarding a
117, 2024 6-28-2024   public ingress and egress easement between the city and
                      NNN Realty LP providing for the assumption of financial
                      obligations by BHG Ashland Real Estate # 1, LLC.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a School Resource
119, 2024 6-28-2028   Officer agreement between the city and the Ashland
                      Independent School District Board of Education for the
                      term July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
120, 2024 7-25-2024   Boyd County Council on Aging, Inc., d/b/a Ashland Senior
                      Center, the subrecipient of $15,000 from the 2024 program
                      year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
                      city and A Plus Contractors LLC for the replacement and
122, 2024 7-26-2024   reconfiguration of emergency generators for ten water
                      pump station locations increasing the contract in the
                      amount of $39,260 and extending the contract 45
                      additional days.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Hazen and Sawyer for professional services
123, 2024 7-26-2024   regarding management of the lead and copper rule program
                      in an amount not to exceed $217,880 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
                      city and Service Pump & Supply, Inc. in the amount of
124, 2024 7-26-2024   $44,368.42 for the raw water intake pump repair for the
                      Department of Utilities, Division of Water treatment
                      plant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a contract between the
                      city and BLK Construction, LLC for all labor and
125, 2024 7-26-2024   materials for miscellaneous concrete and asphalt repair
                      work for the Departments of Public Services and Utilities
                      through July 31, 2025 in the amount of $683,225.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute an agreement with
126, 2024 7-26-2024   Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient of $11,302.95
                      from the 2024 program year community development block
                      grant for employment/education case management.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
127, 2024 7-26-2024   Ashland Community Kitchen, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $15,000 for operating costs from the 2024 program year
                      community development block grant (CDBG).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
128, 2024 7-26-2024   Salvation Army of Ashland, the subrecipient of $5,000 for
                      operating costs from the program year 2024 community
                      development block grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract between the
129, 2024 7-26-2024   city and Precision Property Development Inc. for the
                      Ashland Fire Department central fire station roofing and
                      gutter project in the amount of $286,182.32.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
132, 2024 7-25-2024   city and Spear Corporation for the Dawson pool filtration
                      system project increasing the contract in the amount of
                      $158,308 for the Department of Parks and Recreation.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amendment to the
                      School Resource Officer agreement between the city and
                      the Ashland Independent School District Board of
135, 2024 7-26-2024   Education adopted by Ord. 142, 2023, effective July 1,
                      2024, increasing the number of School Resource Officers
                      and creating the position of School Resource Officer
                      lead.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Bell Engineering for engineering services for
137, 2024 8-22-2024   design of the Pollard Road box culvert replacement
                      project in the amount of $35,400 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute an agreement with
138, 2024 8-22-2024   Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the subrecipient of $15,000 from
                      the 2024 program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and BTI Contracting, Inc. for the placement and
139, 2024 8-22-2024   replacement of bituminous asphalt material for the FY2024
                      street paving program increasing the contract by 92 days
                      to September 30, 2024 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an engagement letter
                      with Sturgill, Turner, Barker & Moloney, PLLC to provide
140, 2024 8-22-2024   legal services in an amount not to exceed those set forth
                      in the statement of billing and fee arrangements in
                      connection with an increase in wholesale water rates for
                      the Department of Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor, to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Marc Shane Prince Rental
141, 2024 8-22-2024   LLC regarding an encroachment for the construction of a
                      concrete retaining wall at 1525 Sword Street on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Rite Lite Signs, Inc. for the city entrance sign
142, 2024 8-22-2024   project decreasing the contract in the amount of $20,000
                      and extending the completion date an additional 81 days
                      to August 22, 2024 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
144, 2024 8-22-2024   city and CTB, Inc. for the 17th Street City Hall entrance
                      project increasing the contract by 153 days to December
                      9, 2024 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an application and
                      subsequent grant agreement between the city and the U.S.
                      Environmental Protection Agency for a state and tribal
                      assistance grant provided by a FY2024 community project
145, 2024 8-22-2024   funding item/congressionally directed spending item in
                      the amount of $4,000,000 for the wastewater treatment
                      plant project; and authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      execute on behalf of the city any and all documents
                      associated with the grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Dixon Engineering, Inc. for professional
147, 2024 8-23-2024   engineering services in the amount of $256,050 for the
                      design and construction inspection of the 55th Street
                      tank renovation project for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing the Mayor, to execute a contract between the
148, 2024 8-23-2024   city and Southern Ohio Trenching & Excavating for the
                      Pollard Mills infrastructure phase 4 project in the
                      amount of $924,869 for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
149, 2024 8-23-2024   between the city and Martin Painting & Coating Company in
                      the amount of $229,600 for the Debord Hill tank
                      rehabilitation project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
151, 2024 8-23-2024   agreement between the city and My Town TV to record,
                      broadcast and post meetings of the City Commission for a
                      period of one year in the amount of $12,000.
                      Accepting the recommendation of AP3, LLC for L.E. Gregg
                      Associates to provide geotechnical services in the amount
                      of $13,830 and for Ayoroa Simmons, LLC to provide an alta
153, 2024 8-23-2024   survey in the amount $35,006 regarding the potential
                      development of a conference center and authorizing and
                      directing the Mayor, to execute an acknowledgment and
                      agreement between the city and AP3, LLC accepting said
                      recommendation.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Mechanical Construction Company for the water
155, 2024 9-26-2024   treatment plant geodesic dome tank cover project
                      increasing the contract and extending the completion date
                      an additional 60 days for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a fixed
                      fee agreement for consulting services between the city
156, 2024 9-26-2024   and LJB Engineering Professional Corporation for
                      engineering services for the development of a safety
                      action plan under the safe streets for all program for
                      the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 1 between the
                      city and Southern Ohio Trenching and Excavating
157, 2024 9-26-2024   increasing the amount of the contract for the Chestnut
                      Drive sanitary sewer and waterline replacement project
                      for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the purchase of all
159, 2024 9-26-2024   labor, materials, equipment and services for the
                      commercial demolition and removal of all debris of 120
                      20th Street for the Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 between the
160, 2024 9-26-2024   city and Allard Excavation LLC for the Winchester Avenue
                      improvements project modifying the construction
                      completion date for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
162, 2024 9-26-2024   memorandum of agreement terms and conditions between the
                      Commonwealth and the city in the amount of $25,000,000
                      for construction of a conference center.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Flottweg Separation
165, 2024 10-24-2024  Technology Inc. in the amount of $731,036 for the
                      purchase of a centrifuge dewatering equipment system for
                      the wastewater treatment plant improvement project for
                      the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Atlas Copco Compressors
166, 2024 10-24-2024  LLC in the amount of $1,893,732 for the purchase of a
                      turbo-compressor system and controls for the wastewater
                      treatment plant improvement project for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Everett J. Prescott Inc.
167, 2024 10-24-2024  in the amount of $119,194.85 for the installation of
                      insertion valves for the U.S. 23 waterline replacement
                      project for the Department of Engineering.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 3 between the
                      city and A Plus Contractors LLC for the replacement and
168, 2024 10-24-2024  reconfiguration of emergency generators for ten water
                      pump station locations decreasing the contract in the
                      amount of $36,350.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      between the city and Mechanical Construction Company for
170, 2024 10-25-2024  the 26th Street pump station rehabilitation project in
                      the amount of $331,799.80 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a bill of
171, 2024 10-25-2024  sale between the city and Kentucky Power Company for the
                      purchase of the streetlight poles located on Winchester
                      Avenue in the 1800, 1900, 2000 and 2100 blocks.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
174, 2024 10-25-2024  Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $13,815.86 for
                      employment/education case management from the 2024
                      program year community development block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Community Assistance Referral Service,
175, 2024 10-25-2024  Inc. (CARES), the subrecipient of $15,000 for operating
                      costs from the 2024 program year community development
                      block grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor Pro-Tem to execute an
176, 2024 10-25-2024  agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
                      the subrecipient of $10,000 for operating costs from the
                      2024 program year community development block grant.
182, 2024 11-14-2024  Amending flexible spending plan adopted by Ord. 86, 2020.
                      Authorization of contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc.
185, 2024 12-12-2024  for purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for demolition and removal of debris of 3220
                      Hampton Street in the amount of $4,900.
                      Authorization of contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc.
186, 2024 12-12-2024  for purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for demolition and removal of debris of 804
                      Montgomery Avenue in the amount of $7,900.
                      Authorization of contract with Womack Excavating, LLC for
187, 2024 12-12-2024  the demolition, removal, disposal and cleanup of all
                      debris at 5340 Blackburn Avenue in the amount of $2,900.
                      Authorization of contract with Womack Excavating, LLC for
188, 2024 12-12-2024  the demolition, removal, disposal and cleanup of all
                      debris at 2156 Eltura Street in the amount of $6,500.
                      Authorization of contract with Womack Excavating, LLC for
189, 2024 12-12-2024  the demolition, removal, disposal and cleanup of all
                      debris at 361 Ferry Street in the amount of $3,200.
                      Authorization of contract with Womack Excavating, LLC for
190, 2024 12-12-2024  the demolition, removal, disposal and cleanup of all
                      debris at 829 Montgomery Avenue in the amount of $3,000.
                      Authorization of contract with Womack Excavating, LLC for
191, 2024 12-12-2024  the demolition, removal, disposal and cleanup of all
                      debris at 4914 Sherwood Drive in the amount of $4,800.
                      Authorization of contract with C.J. Hughes Construction
193, 2024 12-12-2024  Co., Inc. for the Carr Street/Packard Avenue and Iroquis
                      Avenue sanitary sewer line replacement project in the
                      amount of $391,476.
                      Authorization of contract with Judy Construction Company
194, 2024 12-12-2024  for the Roberts Drive screen replacement project in the
                      amount of $2,968,000.
                      Authorization of contract with Prichard Lawncare, Inc.
195, 2024 12-12-2024  for purchase of all labor and materials for tree trimming
                      for a two-year period.
196, 2024 12-12-2024  Authorization of contract with BWC Trucking, Inc. for
                      purchase of gravel, stone and sand.
199, 2024 12-12-2024  Authorization contract with Ashland Independent School
                      District to add one additional school resource officer.
200, 2024 12-12-2024  Authorization of agreement with James Westenhoefer for
                      Shelter of Hope, Inc. regarding garnishment of funds.
                      Authorization of contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc.
206, 2024 12-13-2024  for purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      1020 Belmont Street in the amount of $5,800.
                      Authorization of contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc.
207, 2024 12-13-2024  for purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      2414 Beech Street in the amount of $7,600.
                      Authorization of contract with Womack Excavating, LLC for
208, 2024 12-13-2024  the demolition, removal, disposal and cleanup of all
                      debris at 3107 Powell Street in the amount of $4,500.
                      Authorization of contract with Judy Construction Company
209, 2024 12-13-2024  for Johnson Fork, Baugess Drive and Florida Street water
                      booster station project.
213, 2024 12-13-2024  Authorization of agreement with Michael Graese regarding
                      his employment as City Manager.
                      Authorization contract with C.J. Hughes Construction
216, 2024 12-13-2024  Company, Inc. for the 2022 water and sewer capital
                      improvements plan sewer line and repair project.
                      Authorization of agreement with Ashland Church of God for
219, 2024 12-13-2024  purchase of real estate for the purpose of a water
                      utility easement.
                      Authorization of executive task order with Strand
8, 2025   2-11-2025   Associations, Inc. for preparation of 2024 combined sewer
                      overflow reports for the Utilities Department.
                      Authorization of contract with JMK Electric Company, Inc.
17, 2025  3-4-2025    to furnish all labor, materials, supervision and safety
                      to install a backup generator for the Police Department.
                      Authorization of bill of sale with Kentucky Power Company
21, 2025  3-4-2025    for purchase of the streetlight poles located on
                      Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorization of agreement with USALCO, LLC for the tank
22, 2025  3-27-2025   level monitoring system installation for the Utility
                      Department operations.
                      Authorizing consulting agreement with Harrison
28, 2025  3-27-2025   Consulting, LLC to provide consulting services and
                      oversight of the construction of a conference center.
                      Authorizing contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for
29, 2025  4-1-2025    the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      2143 Thomas Street.
                      Authorizing contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for
30, 2025  4-1-2025    the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      2200 Smith Street.
                      Authorizing contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for
31, 2025  4-1-2025    the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      3128 Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for
32, 2025  4-1-2025    the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      2740 Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing contract with Light s Enterprises, Inc. for
33, 2025  4-1-2025    the purchase of all labor, materials, equipment and
                      services for the demolition and removal of all debris of
                      621 27th Street.
34, 2025  4-1-2025    Authorizing contract with Leighty Contracting, LLC for
                      the purchase and installation of concrete at Dawson Pool.
                      Authorizing execution of amendment to agreement with GRW
                      Engineers, Inc. to provide engineering services in
35, 2025  4-1-2025    connection with the design, construction and agency
                      approvals of the 2022 water and sewer capital
                      improvements project.
38, 2025  4-1-2025    Authorizing purchase agreement with Brooks Wells, Inc.
                      for the purchase of 341 14th Street by the city.
                      Authorization of contract with Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc.
40, 2025  4-1-2025    for the removal and disposition of sludge from the city
                      wastewater treatment plant and water treatment plant for
                      one year.
                      Authorization of purchase agreement with Paramount Arts
50, 2025  4-24-2025   Center, Inc. permitting the Paramount Arts Center, Inc.
                      to continue to operate and lease the theater through
                      December 31, 2025.
                      Authorization of agreement with HDR Engineering Services
52, 2025  4-24-2025   for the optimization and growth distribution system
                      modeling project.
                      Authorization of contract with Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
                      for the purchase of powdered activated carbon at a price
55, 2025  4-25-2025   of $1.19 per pound, hydrofluosilicic acid at a price of
                      $3.39 per pounds and sodium hypochlorite at a price of
                      $1.8625 per gallon for the Utility Department.
                      Authorization of contract with Chemrite, Inc. for the
56, 2025  4-25-2025   purchase of potassium permanganate at a price of $2.12
                      per pound for the Utilities Department.
                      Authorization of contract with Citco Water for the
57, 2025  4-25-2025   purchase of aluminum sulfate at a price of $1.761 per
                      gallon and sand at a price of $0.107 per pound for the
                      Utilities Department.
                      Authorization of contract with Evonik Corporation for the
58, 2025  4-25-2025   purchase of peracetic acid at a price of $0.797 per
                      pounds for the Utilities Department.
                      Authorization of contract with Polydyne, Inc. for the
                      purchase of liquid polymer for the water treatment plant
59, 2025  4-25-2025   at a price of $17.114 per gallon, for the wastewater
                      treatment plant at a price of $15.308 per gallon and
                      polymer cationic at a price of $2.41 per pound for the
                      Utilities Department.
                      Authorization of contract with Univar Solutions USA, Inc.
60, 2025  4-25-2025   for the purchase of liquid caustic soda at a price of
                      $1.077 per gallon for the Utilities Department.
                      Authorization of contract with USALCO, LLC for the
61, 2025  4-25-2025   purchase of poly-aluminum chloride (PAC) at a price of
                      $3.2814 per gallon for the Utilities Department.
62, 2025  4-25-2025   Authorization of agreement with King s Daughters and Sons
                      Home for a fence replacement project.
                      Authorization of agreement with Kentucky Combined Sewer
                      Overflow Coalition, Strand Associates, Inc., and English,
64, 2025  4-25-2025   Lucas, Priest and Owsley regarding regulatory approaches
                      to terminating long-term control plans with the Kentucky
                      Energy and Environmental Cabinet.
                      Authorization of agreement with Ashland Bus System and
72, 2025  5-22-2025   the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for a FY 2025 capital
                      state match contract grant.
                     
 
 
TABLE VIII: DEDICATIONS
 
 
Ord.     Date Passed Description
                     Dedicating certain tracts of land in the Park Hill Realty
                     Company s Forest Hills Subdivisions number one, number
76-1978  12-7-1978   five, and number six within the city for public park
                     purposes, subject to approval of the Planning Commission
                     or Board of Zoning Adjustment and naming the park Charles
                     and Betty Russell Park.
                     Designating the renaming of Southside Park, in the 2200
107-2003 8-21-2003   block of Ballard Street, as C. Wendell Banks Southside
                     Park.
108-2003 8-21-2003   Designating the city-owned park near 47th Street as 47th
                     Street Riverside Park.
39-2007  4-19-2007   Designating the city-owned properties located at 3219 and
                     3223 Central Avenue as a city park.
                    
 
 
TABLE IX: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Granting a temporary easement to Kentucky Power Company
                      in the vicinity of 41st Street, Brown Street and
52-1978   8-3-1978    Winchester Avenue within the city for the purpose of
                      installing an electric transmission line across the lands
                      within the temporary easement to serve the Allied
                      Chemical Company (Semet Solvay).
                      With relation to the proposed construction of a
                      wastewater (sewage) treatment plant within the city in
                      the vicinity of 26th Street between Front Street and the
                      Ohio River, a certain deed of conveyance for a parcel of
7-1980    1-24-1980   land and easement in that vicinity to Armco, Inc., is
                      executed, and a certain deed of conveyance from Armco,
                      Inc. to the city for a parcel of land and easement in the
                      above-described vicinity is accepted, all for the intent
                      and purpose of constructing the wastewater (sewage)
                      treatment plant.
                      Granting an easement to the Cannonsburg Water District
8-1980    2-7-1980    for the purpose of laying and maintaining an underground
                      water line and appurtenances thereto to supply water to
                      the site of the Whayne Supply Company.
                      Granting a license to the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
                      Company for the purpose of installing and maintaining a
96-1980   9-18-1980   12-inch diameter water line from Catlettsburg, Kentucky,
                      to Leach, Kentucky, to serve Ashland Oil, Inc. s refinery
                      at Leach.
74-1986   8-5-1986    Authorizing the Mayor to execute utility easements
                      relating to the construction of Hager Elementary School.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of easement to
61-1988   7-5-1988    Armco, Inc., for an additional railroad crossing over
                      34th Street, a public right-of-way, adjacent to the
                      existing tracks.
                      Accepting a deed of easement from Armco, Inc. for
109-1988  10-18-1988  construction of a roadway to provide ingress to and
                      egress from Armco s steel manufacturing facility and
                      authorizing the Mayor to execute said easement.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to obtain a storm
17-1990   3-20-1990   sewer easement to drain the city s underground water
                      reservoir in the vicinity of Skyline Drive, Floyd Street
                      and Grace Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
110-1990  9-18-1990   Southern Hills Estates, Inc. and the city for a sanitary
                      sewer lines.
111-1990  9-18-1990   Granting a deed of easement to Kathleen Thompson for the
                      proposed sewer line relocation on Condit Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
117-1990  10-2-1990   Ashland Armco Employees Credit Union and the city for the
                      construction, erection and maintenance of water lines.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
121-1990  10-2-1990   Bailco, Inc. and the city for the proposed sewer line
                      relocation on Mindy Jane Court.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
123-1990  10-16-1990  Gerald J. Mansbach and Anna Rosemary Mansbach and the
                      city for the proposed storm sewer line on South Belmont
                      Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
124-1990  10-16-1990  Alta Foster and the city for a proposed drainage line
                      between McClelland and Floyd Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
125-1990  10-16-1990  John R. and Linda Stakely and the city for a proposed
                      drainage line between McClelland and Floyd Streets.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
                      Opal G. Boggs, Louis E. and Diane R. Gehringer, James M.
                      and Bonnie J. Brown, James H. and Charlotte L. Robbins,
129-1990  11-5-1990   Jack R. Stephens, Robert E. and Rebecca L. Stacey and
                      Charles W. and Helen J. Burton and the city for the
                      proposed sanitary sewer line in the Alpha, Willis and
                      Grace Street area.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign a deed of easement between
132-1990  11-5-1990   Dante Phillip Marzetti and Rita Mercedes Marzetti and the
                      city for construction of a sanitary sewer line.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to obtain easements
105-1992  7-31-1992   for the installation of a sewer line necessary to
                      construct a 20-inch force main from the Roberts Drive
                      pump station to the 10th Street pump station.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Anthony s
126-1994  10-6-1994   Menswear regarding installation of a sign at 318 15th
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with David Cossett
127-1994  10-6-1994   regarding placement of a fence at 2934 Hampton Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with C. L. Hutchinson
141-1994  10-20-1994  regarding placement of a fence at 2938 Hampton Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Greyhorse
145-1994  11-17-1994  Cellular regarding placement of a sign at 90 Winchester
                      Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with UK King s
146-1994  11-17-1994  Daughters regarding construction of a parking lot at 2200
                      Bath Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with UK King s
147-1994  11-17-1994  Daughters regarding construction of a parking lot at 2205
                      Montgomery Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Mike and Becky
148-1994  11-17-1994  Fannin regarding replacement of a fence at 1158 2nd
                      Circle Prospect on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Milford R. and
159-1994  12-1-1994   Janet K. Bond regarding placement of a fence at 2616
                      Hampton Street on the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Cellular One
160-1994  12-1-1994   regarding placement of a sign at 818 13th Street on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Thomas and Barb
161-1994  12-1-1994   Crutcher regarding placement of a fence at 2620 Hampton
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with UK King s
165-1994  12-15-1994  Daughters regarding construction of a canopy on 23rd
                      Street between Montgomery Avenue and Lexington Avenue on
                      the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Ashland
8-1995    2-2-1995    Senior Center regarding placement of a sign at 324 15th
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Community
9-1995    2-2-1995    Hospice, Inc. regarding placement of a sign at 1538
                      Central Avenue on the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Belinda Hunt
10-1995   2-2-1995    regarding placement of a sign at 1324 Central Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Greg Martin
11-1995   2-2-1995    regarding placement of a fence at 2813 Moore Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Thomas Ltd. Inc.
12-1995   2-2-1995    regarding placement of an awning sign at 1612 Greenup
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ben Williamson
19-1995   2-16-1995   regarding placement of awning along the front and side of
                      building at 1527 and 1539 Greenup Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Rebecca Fannin
22-1995   3-2-1995    regarding replacement of an awning along the front of
                      2014 29th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with First United
23-1995   3-2-1995    Methodist Church regarding placement of a fence beside
                      the church across from 328 19th Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Sharon Sawyer
24-1995   3-2-1995    regarding placement of a fence at 2315 Moore Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Sim Fryson Motor
40-1995   4-20-1995   Company, Inc. regarding placement of signs at 2565
                      Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with John Wolhoy
53-1995   5-18-1995   Enterprises, Inc. for a 15 foot sewer easement located in
                      the Wells Heights Subdivision.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Don Hall
57-1995   6-1-1995    Chevrolet-Olds-GMC, Inc. regarding a parking encroachment
                      at 1741 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Mid-America
74-1995   6-26-1996   Distributors, Inc. regarding placement of awnings along
                      the front of building at 1301 Greenup Avenue on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Inc.
92-1995   8-3-1995    regarding installation of a monitor well on Crooks Street
                      between Main Street and Blackburn Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with James and
98-1995   8-17-1995   LaJohnda Vice regarding placement of a fence at 2318
                      Boone Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with John J. and Debra
99-1995   8-17-1995   J. Roach regarding placement of a privacy fence at 2225
                      Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Dallas E. Wheeler
100-1995  8-17-1995   regarding placement of a fence at 2316 Plum Street on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Carla Tooke
107-1995  9-7-1995    regarding placement of a fence and landscaping at 2322
                      Boone Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with UK King s
117-1995  9-21-1995   Daughters regarding construction of parking lots and
                      required landscaping at 606 22nd Street and 2230, 2234,
                      and 2238 Bath Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Butch and Glenda
118-1995  9-21-1995   Upton regarding placement of a privacy fence at 515 Hagan
                      Court on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Kenneth Moore d/
119-1995  9-21-1995   b/a Greabear Gallery regarding placement of an awning at
                      1616 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Community
120-1995  9-21-1995   Medical Equipment regarding placement of awnings and a
                      handicap access ramp at 2200 Winchester Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Beech Street
121-1995  9-21-1995   Christian Church regarding placement of a sign at 3027
                      29th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Robert G. Wright
127-1995  10-5-1995   regarding placement of a privacy fence at 918 Blackburn
                      Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Judalyn R. James
128-1995  10-5-1995   regarding placement of a fence at 2267 Crooks Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bruce and Shannon
131-1995  10-19-1995  Evans regarding placement of a fence at 2928 Central
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with John R. Hood, Jr.
139-1995  11-2-1995   regarding placement of a fence at 3001 Bath Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ron and Karen
140-1995  11-2-1995   Artis regarding placement of wood porch steps at 4122
                      Cabell Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Scott Orthopedic
141-1995  11-2-1995   Center Inc. regarding placement of a sign and awning at
                      1816 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Russ James
142-1995  11-2-1995   regarding placement of a sign at 846 Central Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bill R. Hall
144-1995  11-16-1995  regarding placement of a fence at 1024 Central Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Shakti Inc.
145-1995  11-16-1995  regarding placement of a sign at 3020 Winchester Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Shelter of Hope
6-1996    1-18-1996   regarding placement of a chain link fence at 2944
                      Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Plaza
11-1996   2-1-1996    Hotel regarding placement of a sign at 1441 Winchester
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Columbia Gas of
12-1996   2-1-1996    Kentucky, Inc. regarding placement of a security fence at
                      121 9th Street on the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with AT&T Corp.
15-1996   2-15-1996   regarding the use of the city s right-of-way along the
                      railroad tracks for the installation of an aerial fiber
                      optics cable.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Elswick Outdoor
21-1996   3-7-1996    Advertising, Inc. regarding placement of a billboard sign
                      at 29th Street between Carter Avenue and Mill Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Wendy s
31-1996   4-4-1996    International, Inc. regarding placement of a light pole
                      at 2778 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Professional Fire
34-1996   4-18-1996   Extinguisher Sales and Service, Inc. regarding placement
                      of a sign/planter at 3202 Winchester Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Vernon Dickens
45-1996   5-16-1996   regarding a sign and parking encroachment at 2002 Greenup
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Gospel Tabernacle
53-1996   6-6-1996    regarding placement of a sign at 2737 Herman Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Paul and Cathie
59-1996   6-17-1996   Shaffer regarding placement of a wood picket fence at 920
                      Blackburn Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Kentucky Power
60-1996   6-17-1996   Company regarding a landscaping and parking encroachment
                      at the northwest corner of 19th Street and Central Avenue
                      on the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Don Hall
77-1996   7-18-1996   Chevrolet, Inc. regarding a parking and landscaping
                      encroachment at 1800 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-
                      of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Tony Workman
78-1996   7-18-1996   regarding a sign encroachment at 2836 Greenup Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bazaar Home
83-1996   8-1-1996    Fashions regarding placement of an awning at 1537
                      Winchester Avenue, in the alley, on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Dr. Brian Johnson
99-1996   10-3-1996   regarding a sign encroachment at 1202 Montgomery Avenue
                      on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Inc.
100-1996  10-3-1996   regarding installation of four monitor wells at 21st
                      Street and Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
121-1996  11-21-1996  Authorizing execution of agreement with Janice Lewis for
                      use of the right-of-way at 1915 Belmont Street.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Gayle Potter
122-1996  11-21-1996  regarding a sign encroachment at 2036 Winchester Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Lisa C. Donalson
123-1996  11-21-1996  regarding a sign encroachment at 2048 Winchester Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Federal
124-1996  11-21-1996  Savings Bank regarding a sign encroachment and the
                      installation of a canopy at 344 17th Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Richard T.
1-1997    1-2-1997    Brislin regarding an encroachment of a flag flying at
                      1125 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with J. B. Carter
24-1997   3-6-1997    regarding a sign encroachment at 3500 Winchester Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with 360
28-1997   3-20-1997   Communications regarding a sign encroachment at 925
                      Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with UK King s
35-1997   4-3-1997    Daughters Medical Center regarding required landscaping
                      on 23rd and 24th Streets and Bath and Montgomery Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Mar Hall Sergent
58-1997   5-15-1997   regarding a sign encroachment at 1824 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Vinson Layman of
65-1997   6-5-1997    Ashland Fabricating & Welding Co., Inc. regarding
                      placement of fence and gates behind 3321 Greenup Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with James A. McIntyre
66-1997   6-5-1997    regarding placement of a block and stucco wall and accent
                      lights at 3904 Mound Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Richard M.
71-1997   6-12-1997   Preece, II regarding a sign encroachment at 2101
                      Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Central Baptist
72-1997   6-12-1997   Church regarding a sign and parking encroachment at 600
                      29th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Marion Russell
84-1997   6-26-1997   regarding placement of concrete landscaping blocks at
                      2036 Wilshire Boulevard on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Don Hall
96-1997   7-17-1997   Chevrolet, Inc. regarding a sign encroachment at 1800
                      Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Robert F. Powers,
97-1997   7-17-1997   Jr. regarding placement of a retaining wall at 14420 Bath
                      Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with UK King s
98-1997   7-17-1997   Daughters regarding construction of parking lots and
                      required landscaping on 24th Street between Montgomery
                      Avenue and Lexington Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Becky Fannin
106-1997  8-7-1997    regarding a sign and parking encroachment at 2346
                      Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Mark Pratt
112-1997  8-7-1997    regarding placement of a handicap access ramp and entry
                      steps at 2209 Central Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the United States
113-1997  9-4-1997    of America General Services Administration regarding
                      placement of a fence and gates behind 1405 Greenup Avenue
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Petroleum
114-1997  8-21-1997   Company regarding installation of two monitor wells at
                      21st Street and Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Scott Hester
166-1997  12-4-1997   regarding a sign encroachment at 1013 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Dr. Maurice
167-1997  12-4-1997   Oakley regarding a retaining wall and parking
                      encroachment at 1901 Winchester Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Mitchell and
170-1997  12-18-1997  Maggie Artrip regarding placement of a handicap access
                      ramp at 3000 Central Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland Marble,
4-1998    1-15-1998   Inc. regarding placement of a fence at 28th and Mill
                      Streets on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Around the Corner
17-1998   3-5-1998    LLC regarding placement of a brick patio and walk at 1622
                      Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Burlile Oil Co.
18-1998   3-5-1998    Inc. regarding placement of a sign at 501 13th Street on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Patricia A. Gray
19-1998   3-5-1998    regarding placement of a new entrance at 1500 Winchester
                      Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of an easement with Robert L. and
21-1998   3-5-1998    Nancy L. Tilton for installation of a plumbing vent over
                      1436 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of a right-of-way easement with the
32-1998   3-19-1998   Boyd County Board of Education for the use of right-of-
                      way to install water lines.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Heritage Bank
43-1998   3-7-1998    regarding placement of a sign at 735 Central Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Ashland School of
54-1998   6-4-1998    Beauty Culture regarding placement of a concrete stoop at
                      the 17th Street entrance to the building located at 1654
                      Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bluegrass Family
55-1998   6-18-1998   Medicine regarding a parking encroachment at 2025 Carter
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Jerry Lowman
68-1998   7-16-1998   regarding placement of a concrete pole fence in front of
                      his property at 925 Greenup Avenue by Hertz Car Sales on
                      the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Home for the
94-1998   10-15-1998  Holidays, Inc. regarding a sign encroachment at 423 21st
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Bill R. Hall,
102-1998  11-19-1998  regarding an encroachment at 1024 Central Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with David Payne,
103-1998  11-19-1998  owner of Ashland Sporting Goods, regarding an overhang
                      and parking encroachment at 2007 Carter Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Heritage Green
110-1998  12-3-1998   LLC regarding a parking encroachment at 855 Central
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Nick Jones
116-1998  12-17-1998  regarding parking encroachment at 1209 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with John B. Christie,
1-1999    1-7-1999    First Industrial Supply, regarding a sign encroachment at
                      3201 Greenup Avenue on city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with John D. Stafford,
2-1999    1-7-1999    Stafford Motorsports, for a sign encroachment at 2700
                      Greenup Avenue on city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing quitclaim deed for abandoned ten-foot
26-1999   3-18-1999   easement on Chestnut Hill Dr. to Kenneth and Martha
                      Williams and Linton Wells.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Superior Chrysler/
28-1999   4-1-1999    Plymouth/Dodge/Jeep Eagle for sign encroachment at 1000
                      Greenup Avenue on city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with Tom Burnette,
29-1999   4-1-1999    Office Furniture USA, for sign encroachment at 2781
                      Winchester Avenue on city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Five State
50-1999   5-20-1999   Properties LLC, for a driveway at 2160 Carter Avenue on
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with John M. Redmond
51-1999   5-20-1999   for encroachment for a driveway at 2548 Hilton Avenue on
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Paramount Arts
52-1999   5-20-1999   Center for encroachment for structural columns and
                      protection barriers with signs included at 1300
                      Winchester Avenue on city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Curtis Livingston
61-1999   6-3-1999    for encroachment for driveway at 2333 Broad Street on
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Ashland
86-1999   7-15-1999   First Church of the Nazarene regarding a lobby and
                      elevator addition at 2201 Bath Avenue on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Pollyanne
92-1999   8-5-1999    Sager regarding a parking encroachment at 2600 Country
                      Club Court on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with A.K. Khanna,
102-1999  9-1-1999    Ashland Pediatrics, regarding a parking encroachment at
                      2309 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Fred Unrue
117-1999  10-21-1999  regarding an encroachment for the placement of light
                      poles and to display pre-owned cars for resale at 321
                      11th street on city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with David Carter
122-1999  11-4-1999   regarding a sign encroachment at 2150 Carter Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Charles and
123-1999  11-4-1999   Lisa Schafer regarding a fence and retaining wall
                      encroachment at 1900 Prospect Avenue on the city s right-
                      of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Samuel and
124-1999  11-4-1999   Sherry Corns regarding a fence encroachment at 2800
                      Hampton Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Columbia Gas
                      of Kentucky, Inc. regarding a ten- foot easement for the
125-1999  11-4-1999   relocation of a gas pipeline due to the Paramount Arts
                      Center Project on the city s property at Winchester
                      Avenue and 14th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with UK King s
136-1999  12-16-1999  Daughters regarding an encroachment for the relocation of
                      signs on Lexington Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Richard Meade
137-1999  12-16-1999  regarding a sign encroachment at 1017 Winchester Avenue
                      on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with UK King s
                      Daughters regarding an encroachment for the installation
8-2000    2-3-2000    of sidewalks, landscaping and parking in the alley
                      between Lexington and Montgomery Avenues in the 2400
                      block on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Curt Justice
53-2000   5-4-2000    regarding an encroachment for a fence at 1213 Winchester
                      Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with T.D.R., Inc.
67-2000   6-1-2000    d/b/a Carter Avenue Beverage Center regarding a parking
                      encroachment at 2441 Carter Avenue on the city s right-
                      of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with UK King s
74-2000   6-15-2000   Daughters regarding an encroachment for the installation
                      of steps at 2230 Bath Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with AAMCO
85-2000   7-6-2000    Transmission regarding an encroachment for a fence at
                      2601 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Donald K.
86-2000   7-6-2000    Moore regarding an encroachment for a retaining wall at
                      2108 Hilton Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Heritage Bank
87-2000   7-6-2000    regarding an encroachment for the installation of signs
                      and a buffer at 855 Central Avenue on the city s right-
                      of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Patricia
114-2000  8-24-2000   Miller regarding a sign encroachment at 2740 Winchester
                      Avenue on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of an encroachment agreement with
                      the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Department of
128-2000  9-21-2000   Transportation, accepting the responsibility for
                      construction and maintenance of the exit ramp in the 400
                      block of Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Tracy and Anna
146-2000  11-2-2000   Russell regarding an encroachment for a metal carport at
                      1021 Geiger Lane on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Ashland
155-2000  11-16-2000  Children s Clinic regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign at 700 13th Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Stewart
156-2000  11-16-2000  Thornbury of Ashland Porter Paint regarding an
                      encroachment for the installation of signs at 2301
                      Greenup Avenue on the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with UK King s
                      Daughters regarding and encroachment for the installation
157-2000  11-16-2000  of landscaping curbs and parking at 512, 514 and 520 23rd
                      Street and 2305, 2309, 2313, 2317 and 2321 Bath Avenue on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with UK King s
                      Daughters regarding an encroachment for the installation
158-2000  11-16-2000  of signs and replacement of existing signs in the area
                      surrounding the hospital on the city s right-of-way;
                      repealed by Ord. 177, 2024.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Kentucky
167-2000  12-7-2000   Army National Guard regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign at 2519 Lexington Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Perry J. and
168-2000  12-7-2000   Susan E. Madden regarding an encroachment for parking and
                      the construction of a porch, canopy and handicap ramp at
                      2432 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an easement with the Kentucky
5-2001    1-4-2001    Power Company for the guide wire located at the new 29th
                      Street Fire Station property on South 29th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Perry J. and
18-2001   2-15-2001   Susan E. Madden regarding a sign encroachment at 2432
                      Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Jeffrey L.
37-2001   4-5-2001    Meade regarding a sign encroachment, parking and a buffer
                      at 1124 Bath Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the American
                      Legion Building Corp. regarding an encroachment for the
46-2001   4-19-2001   replacement of an existing flag pole and installation of
                      two additional flag poles at 405 20th Street on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Edwin and
112-2001  9-6-2001    Teddy Conley regarding an encroachment for a fence at 816
                      17th Street on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Sheryl Jackson
113-2001  9-6-2001    regarding an encroachment for a fence at 3650 Leighwood
                      Drive on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Marvin and
126-2001  10-2-2001   Connie Rucker at 4600 Winchester Avenue, regarding an
                      encroachment for the replacement of a garage and
                      retaining wall on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Mark Breeding
132-2001  10-18-2001  regarding an encroachment for a fence at 615 17tth Street
                      on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Melissa Dixon
138-2001  10-25-2001  and Gwyneth LaFave regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign, parking and a buffer at 336 29th
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Don Hall
146-2001  11-8-2001   Chevrolet regarding an encroachment for a driveway ramp
                      at 1440 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Teresa Merritt
147-2001  11-8-2001   regarding an encroachment for the replacement of a fence
                      at 508 44th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Anita Stafford
152-2001  12-6-2001   at 1720 Prospect, regarding an encroachment for the
                      placement of a fence on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Doris Meade at
153-2001  12-6-2001   1621 Bath Avenue, regarding an encroachment for the
                      replacement of a fence on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and approving change order no. 2 with ASL
154-2001  12-6-2001   Excavating Inc. for a contract dated 6-29-2001 regarding
                      the Chatteroi St./Railroad Alley Improvements.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with KKM Properties
5-2002    1-17-2002   regarding an encroachment for an awning at 459 29th
                      Street on the city s right-of- way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with John D. and
19-2002   2-21-2002   Nancy R. Stafford regarding a parking encroachment at
                      1301 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Don Hall
20-2002   2-21-2002   Chevrolet regarding an encroachment for a sign at 1846
                      Greenup Avenue on the city s right- of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Michael
25-2002   3-7-2002    Wagner, Wagner Rental, regarding a parking encroachment
                      at 905 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Scott L. and
31-2002   3-21-2002   Kimberly Jenkins regarding an encroachment for a fence at
                      2636 Iroquois Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
45-2002   5-16-2002   agreement between the city and Carl Keyes regarding an
                      encroachment for a step-down at 813 Alexander Place on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city and Blackburn
58-2002   6-20-2002   Avenue Baptist Church, regarding a parking encroachment
                      and drive apron at 5250 Blackburn Avenue on the city s
                      right- of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
59-2002   6-20-2002   execute an agreement between the city and Gray, Woods, &
                      Cooper, regarding an encroachment for the installation of
                      a sign at 510 16th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
60-2002   6-20-2002   execute an agreement between the city and Lisa Dixon,
                      regarding an encroachment for the installation of a sign
                      at 336 29th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city and John F. Gross
76-2002   7-18-2002   at 4324 Ferguson Drive, regarding an encroachment for a
                      driveway with a retaining wall on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city and Walter E.
79-2002   8-1-2002    Ratliff, regarding a parking encroachment at 2272 and
                      2277 Greenup Avenue (Davis Equipment Company, Inc.) on
                      the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city and Kenneth and
88-2002   8-15-2002   Linda Roy, regarding an encroachment for the installation
                      of a sign at 808 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city and the American
89-2002   8-15-2002   Legion Building Corporation, regarding an encroachment
                      for the placement of a dumpster at 405 20th Street on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
90-2002   8-15-2002   execute an agreement between the city and Ritchie and
                      Cindy Collins, regarding a parking encroachment at 4330
                      Grandview Drive on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
120-2002  10-17-2002  execute an agreement between the city and Amvets Post
                      108, regarding an encroachment for the installation of an
                      awning at 120 17th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the directing the Mayor to execute an
132-2002  11-21-2002  agreement between the city and Chris Patrick regarding an
                      encroachment for the placement of a dumpster and dumpster
                      enclosure at 119 6th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
133-2002  11-21-2002  agreement between the city and C. Douglas Queen regarding
                      and encroachment for the placement of a sign at 216 9th
                      Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
1-2003    1-2-2003    agreement between the city and Tim and Mary Sergent
                      regarding an encroachment for a fence at 1824 Carter
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
24-2003   3-6-2003    agreement between the city and Don Hall GM Supercenter
                      regarding an encroachment for the installation of a sign
                      at 1800 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
25-2003   3-6-2003    agreement between the city and Paul Reynolds regarding an
                      encroachment for a retaining wall and fill on the city s
                      right-of-way at 3225 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
26-2003   3-6-2003    agreement between the city and United Properties, LLC,
                      regarding a parking encroachment at the corner of 22nd
                      Street and Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Richard T. Brislin, 1st
31-2003   3-20-2003   Stop Liquor, regarding an encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign at 1125 Winchester Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
32-2003   3-20-2003   agreement between the city and Philip Hieronimus
                      regarding an encroachment for the installation of an
                      awning at 1909 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
33-2003   3-20-2003   agreement between the city and I.N. Pollock Company, Inc.
                      regarding an encroachment for the installation of a sign
                      at 913 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Tim
55-2003   5-15-2003   Caines regarding an encroachment on the city s right-of-
                      way for the installation of a sign at 2166 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with David
56-2003   5-15-2003   P. and Angela Dawnette Stump regarding an encroachment on
                      the city s right-of-way for the installation of a
                      retaining wall at 2622 Jackson Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
57-2003   5-15-2003   Kuburatu A. (Bola) Blunk regarding an encroachment on the
                      city s right-of-way for the installation of a sign at
                      Blue Ribbon Lanes, 1108 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with UK
60-2003   6-5-2003    King s Daughters regarding an encroachment on the city s
                      right-of-way for the installation of a freestanding sign
                      at 2245 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Tim
83-2003   7-17-2003   Beam regarding an encroachment on the city s right-of-way
                      for a fence at 1811 Pike Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Brian
84-2003   7-17-2003   L. and Betty A. Braun regarding an encroachment on the
                      city s right-of-way for a fence at 2708 Adams Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Suresh
97-2003   8-21-2003   Patel regarding an encroachment on the city s right-of-
                      way for the installation of a sign at 2280 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Fifth
98-2003   8-21-2003   Third Bank, Ohio Valley, regarding an encroachment on the
                      city s right-of-way for the installation of underground
                      tubes at 1422 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Louie
114-2003  9-18-2003   Podunavac regarding an encroachment on the city s right-
                      of-way for a handicap ramp at 224 28th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with David
3-2004    1-6-2004    E. Floyd regarding an encroachment on the city s right-
                      of-way for the installation of a sign, parking and a
                      landscaping buffer at 316 23rd Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
4-2004    1-6-2004    Phillips Body Shop regarding an encroachment on the city
                      s right-of-way for the installation of an awning at 1920
                      Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Sim
15-2004   2-19-2004   Fryson Enterprises regarding an encroachment on the city
                      s right-of-way for the installation of a freestanding
                      sign at 2701 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Edward
16-2004   2-19-2004   L. Buchanan regarding an encroachment on the city s
                      right-of-way for a fence at 1401 Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with David
32-2004   3-4-2004    Apts, Contours Express regarding an encroachment on the
                      city s right-of-way for the installation of a sign at
                      2312 13th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
41-2004   4-1-2004    Kentucky Farmers Bank regarding an encroachment for
                      installation of a sign at 835 Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with UK
                      King s Daughters regarding an encroachment for
51-2004   5-6-2004    installation of landscaping, sidewalks, patio and power
                      plant equipment at south side of 2200 block of Bath
                      Avenue and west side of 23rd Street for a distance of 340
                      feet south of Bath Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Sim
52-2004   5-6-2004    Fryson Enterprises regarding an encroachment for
                      installation of a second freestanding sign at 2701
                      Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Gary
60-2004   5-20-2004   Donaldson regarding an encroachment for construction of a
                      handicap ramp at 602 25th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Two
61-2004   5-20-2004   Hearts Pregnancy Care Center regarding an encroachment
                      for installation of freestanding sign, fence and
                      landscaping buffer at 2200 29th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Joe
66-2004   6-3-2004    Robinson regarding an encroachment for installation of a
                      sign at 806 13th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with E.B.
67-2004   6-3-2004    Gevedon, M.D. regarding an encroachment for installation
                      of a sign at 330 25th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a preservation and
71-2004   6-3-2004    conservation easement for the use and benefit of Kentucky
                      Heritage Council regarding property historically known as
                      the Ashland C & O Freight Depot.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Nancy
77-2004   6-24-2004   Greene regarding an encroachment for a fence at 2626
                      Adams Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between TLG
90-2004   6-28-2004   Development, RLG Ashland and GCG Ashland for an
                      encroachment for installation of freestanding sign at
                      U.S. 23 entrance to Melody Mountain Shopping Center.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an easement with AK
140-2004  10-21-2004  Steel AK Steel Corporation for an abandoned 16-inch water
                      line located on the closed portion of 40th St.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with C.J.
08-2005   2-10-2005   and M.J. Rylands regarding an encroachment for
                      installation of a sign at 1442 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the
09-2005   2-10-2005   Claude Fannin Estate regarding an encroachment for
                      installation of landscaping and parking at 480 23rd
                      Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Nina
29-2005   3-17-2005   Yancey regarding an encroachment for installation of a
                      sign at 2132 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
30-2005   3-17-2005   Charles and Evelyn Tennant regarding an encroachment for
                      installation of a fence at 3321 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
31-2005   3-17-2005   Superior Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep of Ashland, Inc. regarding
                      an encroachment for installation of a sign at 1041
                      Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
32-2005   3-17-2005   Ratliff Family Funeral Home, Inc. regarding an
                      encroachment for the installation of a landscaping buffer
                      at 1220 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Fred
69-2005   5-19-2005   and Linda Dalton regarding the encroachment of the
                      installation of a sign at 3142 Winchester Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with John
70-2005   5-19-2005   D. and Nancy R. Stafford regarding an encroachment for
                      the installation of a fence at 1301 Greenup Avenue of the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Nina
71-2005   5-19-2005   Yancey regarding an encroachment for the installation of
                      a sign at 2101 Winchester Ave. on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with C.J.
83-2005   6-2-2005    Maggies Corp. regarding an encroachment for outdoor
                      dining at 1442 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-
                      way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Linda
91-2005   6-3-2005    Simpson regarding an encroachment for the installation of
                      a fence at 4800 Boyd Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Fred
98-2005   6-20-2005   and Linda Dalton regarding the encroachment for the
                      installation of a sign at 111 32nd Street on the city s
                      right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Boston
99-2005   6-20-2005   Beanery Restaurants, Inc. for the installation of a sign
                      at 1612 Greenup Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute agreement between the
110-2005  8-4-2005    city and Holy Family Church regarding an encroachment for
                      the installation of a fence at the corner of 9th Street
                      and Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
111-2005  8-4-2005    city and John Stockbridge regarding an encroachment for
                      installation of a fence at 2944 Winchester Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
02-2006   1-19-2006   city and Jake Gee regarding a parking encroachment at
                      3001 Winchester Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and UK King s Daughters regarding an encroachment
35-2006   4-6-2006    for the installation of underground conduit along 23rd
                      Street and across Central Avenue to the UK King s
                      Daughters Imaging Center on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and UK King s Daughters regarding an encroachment
42-2006   4-20-2006   for the placement of landscaping, parking, accessability
                      ramps, curbs, steps, railings, signs and mobile unit
                      parking pad for the construction of the UK King s
                      Daughters Imaging Center on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
43-2006   4-20-2006   city and Peoples Bank National Association regarding an
                      encroachment for placement of a sign at 1999 Winchester
                      Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
70-2006   6-1-2006    Authorizing the execution of a sanitary sewer easement
                      with RLG Ashland LLC and GCG Ashland LLC.
                      Authorizing the execution of an assignment of the
                      preservation and conservation easement with the
128-2006  9-21-2006   Commonwealth of Kentucky for the use and benefit of the
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet regarding property
                      historically known as the Ashland C & O Freight Depot.
                      Authorizing the execution of a right-of-way easement with
12-2010   2-11-2010   Kentucky Power Co. for the relocation of a guy pole at
                      the riverfront.
                      Authorizing an agreement with FiberNet/nTelos regarding
113-2011  10-6-2011   an encroachment for the installation of underground
                      inner-ducts on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing an agreement with Kentucky Power Co. for an
13-2012   2-16-2012   easement for underground electric service at the Roberts
                      Drive Sewer Pump Station.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
24-2012   4-5-2012    agreement between the city and Lars, Inc. regarding a
                      parking encroachment at the corner of Carter Avenue and
                      14th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement with UK King s
1-2016    1-14-2016   Daughters regarding an encroachment for the installation
                      of a replacement sign at 2421 Winchester Avenue on the
                      city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an access and utility
117-2016  10-13-2016  easement agreement between the city and Tower Co. 2013
                      LLC for access to the cell tower located between Debord
                      Hill Road and Kilgore Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
63, 2020  5-28-2020   agreement between the city and Bare Properties, LLC
                      regarding a parking and construction encroachment on 8th
                      Street at 739 Carter Avenue on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      landscaping agreement between the Commonwealth of
93, 2023  6-23-2023   Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways
                      and the city for installation by the City of Ashland of
                      13 pine trees on property parallel to U.S. 60 owned by
                      the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
132, 2023 9-28-2023   agreement between the city and Appalachia Realty, LLC
                      regarding an encroachment for outdoor seating at 317, 319
                      and 323 15th Street on the city s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing the expenditure of $2,180 to Gliding Swan
                      Properties LLC for a right-of-way easement for electrical
105, 2024 6-14-2024   poles, transmission lines and a water tap and waiving any
                      costs associated with the installation and construction
                      of the water tap.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a public
                      perpetual ingress and egress easement between NNN Reit,
                      LP, and the city for vehicle and pedestrian traffic over
118, 2024 6-8-2024    and across a parcel of land located in the eastern most
                      corner of property owned by National Retail Properties,
                      LP in the existing corner to the right-of-way line of
                      Armco Road.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor, to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Marc Shane Prince Rental
141, 2024 8-22-2024   LLC regarding an encroachment for the construction of a
                      concrete retaining wall at 1525 Sword Street on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an amended
                      public perpetual ingress and egress easement between NNN
                      Reit, LP, and the city for vehicle and pedestrian traffic
158, 2024 9-26-2024   over and across a parcel of land located in the eastern
                      most corner of property owned by National Retail
                      Properties, LP in the existing corner to the right-of-way
                      line of Armco Road, originally adopted by Ord. 118, 2024.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and UK King s Daughters
177, 2024 10-25-2024  regarding an encroachment for the installation of signs
                      and replacement of existing signs in the area surrounding
                      the hospital on the city s rights-of-way and repealing
                      Ord. 158, 2000.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Boyd Company for the
179, 2024 10-25-2024  purchase of a generator and automatic transfer switches
                      for the wastewater treatment plant improvement project in
                      the amount of $1,079,190 for the Department of
                      Engineering.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
180, 2024 10-25-2024  preliminary design services agreement between the city
                      and AP3, LLC in the amount of $1,000,000 for design
                      services for conference center.
                     
 
 
TABLE X: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
1-1970    - -1970     Granting a cable TV franchise to Bishop Cablevision
                      Company.
                      Providing for and directing the advertisement and sale of
                      a franchise to lay, relocate and maintain pipes and mains
4-1977    1-20-1977   for transporting and conducting gas for industrial uses
                      only in and under the streets, avenues, alleys and public
                      ways of the city.
                      Granting a franchise to lay, construct, establish,
                      relocate, maintain and operate pipes and mains in and
8-1977    2-17-1977   under the streets, avenues, alleys and public ways of the
                      city for the purpose of conveying, conducting, and
                      transporting gas for industrial uses only to Ashland By-
                      Product Gas Company.
                      Amending Ord. 1-1970 relating to the granting of a
                      franchise to construct, install, maintain and keep in
38-1979   9-6-1979    repair a television antenna service within the city and
                      to use and occupy necessary portions of the streets and
                      public ways of the city for that purpose; superseded by
                      Ord. 25-1981.
                      Amending Ord. 1-1970 to provide for an increase in
50-1979   12-6-1979   customer rates to be charged for television antenna
                      service to the city; superseded by Ord. 12-1982.
                      Authorizing amendments to Ord. 1-1970, which ordinance
                      relates to the granting of a franchise to construct,
                      install, maintain and keep in repair a television antenna
25-1981   4-7-1981    service within the city, amendments relating to
                      prohibiting retail business by the franchisee and to the
                      fees payable to the city, and, further, repealing Ord.
                      38-1979; superseded by Ord. 53-1981.
                      Authorizing amendments to Ord. 1-1970 which ordinance
                      relates to the granting of a franchise to construct,
53-1981   5-20-1981   install, maintain and keep in repair a television antenna
                      service within the city, such amendments relating to
                      prohibiting retail business by the franchisee and the
                      fees payable to the city.
                      Amending Ord. 1-1970 to provide for an increase in
12-1982   3-4-1982    residential customer rates to be charged for television
                      antenna service to the city and repealing Ord. 50-1979.
                      Authorizing the sale of a franchise to construct, operate
15-1982   3-29-1982   and maintain a telephone communications system within the
                      city.
                      Granting a franchise to Times Mirror Cable Television of
147-1989  12-22-1989  Eastern Kentucky, Inc. to operate and maintain a cable
                      television system in the city for a period of ten years.
                      Granting for a term of ten years to Kentucky Power
                      Company, its successors and assigns, a franchise, for the
79-1991   6-27-1991   transportation, transmission and distribution of electric
                      energy to the city, and the persons and corporations
                      beyond the limits thereof for light, heat, power and any
                      other purposes.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
125-1991  11-22-1991  authorizing the owner to own, maintain, construct and
                      operate a telephone and communication system upon, along,
                      over and under the streets and other public places.
                      Granting for a term of ten years to GTE South, Inc. a
                      franchise authorizing GTE South, Inc. to own, maintain,
14-1992   2-18-1992   construct and operate a telephone and communication
                      system upon, along, over and under the streets and other
                      public places.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
155-1992  12-15-1992  authorizing the owner to maintain, construct and operate
                      a gas distribution upon, along, over and under the
                      streets and other public places.
                      Granting for a term of ten years to Kentucky-Ohio Gas
                      Company a franchise authorizing Kentucky-Ohio Gas Company
63-1993   6-3-1993    to own, maintain, construct and operate a gas
                      distribution upon, along, over and under the streets and
                      other public places.
                      Consenting to the merger between Times Mirror Company
                      (Dimension Cable) and Cox Cable Communications, Inc, and
140-1994  10-6-1994   requiring that Cox Cable Communications adhere to the
                      franchise agreement already in existence between the city
                      and Times Mirror Company.
                      Acknowledging the transfer of Cox Communications Eastern
24-1996   3-7-1996    Kentucky, Inc. cable television franchise to
                      Frontiervision Operating Partners, Inc.
117-1997  8-21-1997   Providing for the advertisement and sale of a gas
                      pipeline franchise.
                      Granting to AK Steel Corporation a ten-year franchise
139-1997  10-16-1997  authorizing AK Steel Corporation to own, construct,
                      erect, use, lay, maintain, repair, purge, fill, cap and
                      inspect a gas pipeline for industrial uses.
                      Granting to Columbia Gas Co. a ten-year franchise
                      authorizing Columbia Gas Co. to own, maintain, construct
108-1998  11-19-1998  and operate a gas distribution upon, along, over and
                      under the streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks,
                      bridges, public ways and other public places.
                      Acknowledging the franchise transfer of Frontier Vision
48-1999   5-6-1999    Operating Partners, L.P., to Aldelphia Communications
                      Corporation.
16-2001   2-1-2001    Extending the cable television franchise for a period of
                      one year.
41-2001   4-5-2001    Providing for the advertisement and sale of an electric
                      power company franchise.
30-2002   3-7-2002    Extending the cable television franchise for a period of
                      six months.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a letter
36-2002   4-4-2002    of agreement consenting to the assignment of the existing
                      franchise of Verizon South, Inc., to Kentucky Alltell,
                      Inc.
6-2003    1-2-2003    Extending the cable franchise for a period of one year.
7-2004    1-15-2004   Extending the cable franchise for a period of six months.
89-2004   6-28-2004   Extending the cable franchise for a period of four
                      months.
151-2004  11-18-2004  Extending the cable franchise for a period of six months.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
                      authorizing the owner thereof to own, maintain, construct
54-2005   4-11-2005   and operate a gas distribution upon, along, over and
                      under the streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks,
                      bridges, public ways and other public places.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
                      to maintain, construct and operate a telephone and
55-2005   4-11-2005   communication system upon, along, over and under the
                      streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks, bridges,
                      public ways and other public places.
                      Granting a franchise to Columbia Gas Company for a term
76-2005   6-1-2005    of seven and one-half years for a gas distribution
                      system.
89-2005   6-2-2005    Granting a franchise to Kentucky Alltel Inc. for a term
                      of five years for a telephone and communication system.
                      Granting a franchise to Frontiervison for a non-exclusive
92-2005   6-3-2005    franchise to construct, operate and maintain a cable
                      television system.
                      Granting a franchise to Natural Energy Utility
                      Corporation a franchise authorizing natural energy
174-2005  11-17-2005  utility cooperation to own, maintain, construct and
                      operate a gas distribution system upon, along, over and
                      under the streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks,
                      bridges, public ways and other places of the city.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
                      authorizing the owner thereof to own, maintain, construct
72-2009   6-18-2009   and operate a telephone and communication system upon,
                      along, over and under the streets, thoroughfares, alleys,
                      sidewalks, bridges, public ways and other public places
                      of the city.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
                      authorizing the owner thereof to own, maintain, construct
73-2009   6-18-2009   and operate a gas distribution system upon, along, over
                      and under the streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks,
                      bridges, public ways and other public places of the city.
                      Granting to Natural Energy Utility Corporation a ten-year
                      franchise to own, maintain, construct and operate a gas
119-2009  9-17-2009   distribution system upon, along, over and under the
                      streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks, bridges,
                      public ways and other public places.
                      Granting to Columbia Gas of Kentucky a ten-year franchise
                      to own, maintain, construct and operate a gas
120-2009  9-17-2009   distribution system upon, along, over and under the
                      streets, thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks, bridges,
                      public ways and other public places.
                      Providing for the advertisement and sale of a franchise
                      authorizing the owner thereof to own, maintain, construct
44-2011   4-7-2011    and operate electric power transmission and distribution
                      lines upon, along, over and under the streets,
                      thoroughfares, alleys, sidewalks, bridges, public ways
                      and other public places.
                      Granting for a term of ten years to Kentucky Power
                      Company, a Division of America Electric Power, its
                      successors and assigns, a franchise, privilege, right and
84-2011   7-21-2011   authority to acquire, maintain, construct and operate in,
                      above, under, across and along the streets,
                      thoroughfares, alleys, bridges and public places of the
                      city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a non-
14-2015   1-22-2015   exclusive franchise agreement to Lumos Networks, LLC to
                      provide telecommunication services using the public
                      rights-of-way.
                      Granting for a term of ten years to Kentucky Power
                      Company, a Division of America Electric Power, its
                      successors and assigns, a franchise, privilege, right and
107, 2021 7-8-2021    authority to acquire, maintain, construct and operate in,
                      above, under, across and along the streets,
                      thoroughfares, alleys, bridges and public places of the
                      city.
                      Granting for a term of ten years to Kentucky Power
                      Company, a Division of America Electric Power, its
                      successors and assigns, a franchise, privilege, right and
118, 2021 8-26-2021   authority to acquire, maintain, construct and operate in,
                      above, under, across and along the streets,
                      thoroughfares, alleys, bridges and public places of the
                      city.
                     
 
 
TABLE XI: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing an agreement between the city and the
57-1978   8-17-1978   Department of Housing and Urban Development for a housing
                      counseling program, within the Community Development
                      Department of the city.
                      Authorizing an agreement between the cities of Ashland,
56-1980   6-19-1980   and Catlettsburg, and Boyd County, relating to a civil
                      preparedness agreement.
                      Authorizing an interlocal cooperation agreement between
                      the city and Boyd County, relating to the implementation
71-1980   7-17-1980   of a public safety communications center and repealing
                      Ord. 63-1980, which authorized a similar agreement among
                      the City of Ashland, City of Catlettsburg and Boyd
                      County, Kentucky.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
131-1985  11-19-1985  agreement between the city and the Federal Social
                      Security Administration, to provide an efficient
                      information exchange system at no cost to the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
139-1985  12-4-1985   between the city and the Department of Local Government
                      for ARC 302 funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a contract
                      with the Chamber of Commerce of Boyd and Greenup
8-1986    2-4-1986    Counties, Inc., and the city for the purpose of promoting
                      downtown development and revitalization programs with
                      funds from the Arc 302 Program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
20-1986   3-18-1986   amendment to the contract adopted by Ord. 139, passed 12-
                      4-85 between the city and the Department of Local
                      Government to re-allocate private/in-kind funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment to the contract adopted by Ord. 8, passed 2-4-
21-1986   3-18-1986   1986 with the Chamber of Commerce of Boyd and Greenup
                      Counties, Inc., and the city to reallocate private/in-
                      kind funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
47-1986   6-17-1986   Kentucky, Cabinet for Human Resources, Department for
                      Employment Services for continuation of the city s
                      community development weatherization program, in the
                      amount of $109,859.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a letter
63-1986   7-15-1986   of agreement with Arthur G. Porter, Mayor of the City of
                      Catlettsburg, Kentucky, regarding the administration of
                      repayment of urban development action grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf
                      of the city an agreement with the Federal Department of
                      Housing and Urban Development to enable the city to
68-1986   7-15-1986   undertake the activities for the twelfth year community
                      development block grant program in the sum of $551,000, a
                      grant from the Federal Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
75-1986   8-19-1986   amendment to the Housing and Urban Development community
                      development block grant contract no. B-86-MC-21-003 for
                      an additional $113,000 appropriation.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a mutual
19-1987   2-17-1987   aid agreement between the City of Ashland Police
                      Department and the City of Catlettsburg Police
                      Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a budget
                      modification between the city and the Commonwealth of
32-1987   3-17-1987   Kentucky, Cabinet for Human Resources, Department for
                      Employment Services decreasing the funds available to the
                      weatherization program for contract no. ES 86-87-2000, in
                      the amount of $1,595.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into an
46-1987   5-5-1987    agreement by and between the City of Catlettsburg,
                      Kentucky, and the City of Ashland, for the implementation
                      of an Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG).
                      Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                      insurance, insurance and the investment of pubic funds;
                      authorizing the execution of the Interlocal Cooperation
51-1987   5-19-1987   Agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk
                      Management Association (the interlocal agreement ) under
                      which the program will be organized and financed;
                      authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds under the terms
                      and conditions set forth in the interlocal agreement.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
57-1987   6-16-1987   Kentucky, Cabinet for Human Resources, Department for
                      Employment Services for continuation of the city s
                      community weatherization program, in the amount of
                      $100,695.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
                      agreement between the Department of Local Government and
110-1987  10-20-1987  the city for the use of Arc 302 Planning and Technical
                      Assistance funding for downtown revitalization
                      activities.
                      Authorizing Mayor to enter into a professional services
                      agreement between the city and the Chamber of Commerce of
126-1987  11-17-1987  Boyd and Greenup Counties, Inc., for the purpose of
                      promoting downtown development and revitalization
                      programs with funds from the Arc 302 Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
                      between the city and the Counties of Boyd and Greenup to
130-1987  11-17-1987  allow the city to expand its Enterprise Zone to include
                      all of Armco s Ashland Works. (For provisions concerning
                      the Enterprise Zone, see Table IV, City Development.)
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor, to approve a grant
                      from the United State Department of Housing and Urban
8-1988    2-2-1988    Development through the Kentucky Department of Local
                      Government for $100,000 in rental rehabilitation funds to
                      be used within three target areas designated by the City
                      of Ashland.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
49-1988   6-7-1988    Kentucky, Cabinet for Human Resources, Department for
                      Employment Services for continuation of the city s
                      community development weatherization program, in the
                      amount of $100,695.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      memorandum of agreement and professional services
130-1988  11-15-1988  agreement with the Kentucky Department of Local
                      Government for Arc 302 planning and technical assistance
                      funding.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
139-1988  12-6-1988   Kentucky, Cabinet for Human Resources, Department for
                      Employment Services, for continuation of the City s
                      Community Development weatherization assistance program
                      in the amount of $111,463.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
142-1988  12-6-1988   agreement between the city and Cannonsburg water district
                      to furnish potable water for distribution and sale within
                      its water distribution system boundaries.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a Section
149-1988  12-8-1988   8 cooperation agreement on behalf of the public housing
                      authority-Ashland Community Development Agency with the
                      City of Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Boyd County.
                      Amending Ord. 49C, passed 6-7-1988 and authorizing and
                      directing the Mayor to execute an amendment to the
156-1988  12-20-1988  agreement for continuation of the city s community
                      development weatherization program to increase the total
                      amount of funds to $111,463.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      amendment agreement between the city and Cannonsburg
42-1989   4-4-1989    water district to furnish potable water for distribution
                      and sale within its water distribution system boundaries
                      as authorized by Ord. 142, passed 12-6-1988.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with Kentucky Cabinet for Human Resources,
55-1989   5-16-1989   Department for Employment Services, for continuation of
                      the city s community development weatherization program
                      in the amount of $114,865.
                      Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                      insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds
                      agencies, authorizing the execution of the Interlocal
75-1989   6-27-1989   Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal
                      Risk Management Association under which the program will
                      be organized and financed; authorizing the issuance of
                      revenue bonds under the terms and conditions set forth in
                      the interlocal agreement.
                      Approving participation by the city in the Kentucky
                      Municipal Risk Management Association (KMRMA) general
                      insurance trust (a pooled self-insurance and insurance
76-1989   6-27-1989   purchase program); approving the purchase by the city of
                      such liability and property damage insurance coverages as
                      shall be determined advisable; and authorizing the Mayor
                      to execute a binding trust participation agreement
                      between the city and KMRMA.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
                      agreement between the Department of Local Government and
124-1989  11-21-1989  the city for the use of Arc 302 planning and technical
                      assistance funding for downtown development and
                      revitalization.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
21-1990   3-20-1990   professional services agreement between the city and the
                      Ashland Main Street Program, Inc. for administration of
                      the city s Arc 302 grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Cabinet for
45-1990   6-5-1990    Human Resources, Department for Social Insurance, for
                      continuation of the city s community development
                      weatherization program in the amount of $117,733.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
                      cooperation agreement between the cities of Ashland and
70-1990   7-17-1990   Russell, Kentucky for a cooperative computerized records
                      system to be known as Computerized Records Information
                      Sharing System (CRISS).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the
86-1990   8-7-1990    East Kentucky Economic Development and Jobs Creation
                      corporation for participation in a government entity.
135-1990  11-12-1990  Authorizing participation in the Kentucky League of
                      Cities Investment Pool Plus .
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
4-1991    1-8-1991    agreement between the city and the City of Huntington,
                      West Virginia and the Ohio counties of Lawrence and
                      Scioto for tri-state office of traffic safety project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Cabinet for
38-1991   5-7-1991    Human Resources, Department for Social Insurance, for
                      continuation of the city s community development
                      weatherization program in the amount of $111,016.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement with the Kentucky Justice Cabinet, Department
53-1991   6-4-1991    of State Police for the development of computer programs
                      to convert Ashland Police Department arrest and criminal
                      offense information to the Kentucky integrated criminal
                      apprehension program format.
                      Authorizing contract between city bus system and United
111-1991  10-15-1991  States Department of Transportation granting $288,419 for
                      capital and operating assistance.
                      Authorizing contract between city bus systems and United
112-1991  10-15-1991  States Department of Transportation granting $323,716 for
                      operating and planning assistance.
                      Authorizing contract with State Transportation Cabinet
120-1991  11-19-1991  for matching funds in the amount of $3,575 for the city
                      bus system s capital assistance projects.
                      Authorizing agreement with the Boyd County Fiscal Court
130-1991  12-3-1991   for the city to accept and treat domestic strength
                      wastewater.
                      Authorizing execution and filing of applications and
5-1992    1-21-1992   related grant agreements with the United States
                      Department of Transportation, for planning, capital and/
                      or operating grants.
                      Authorizing contract between city bus system and the
12-1992   2-4-1992    Unites States Department of Transportation, granting
                      $281,583 for capital and operating assistance.
                      Authorizing agreement with State Transportation Cabinet
27-1992   3-17-1992   for funding in the amount of $15,730 for the city bus
                      system s capital maintenance items.
                      Authorizing amended and restated interlocal cooperation
36-1992   4-7-1992    agreement with the City of Danville and other public
                      agencies relating to the Kentucky League of Cities pooled
                      lease financing program.
                      Authorizing a grant agreement with the State Department
                      for Local Government for an award of $40,000 under the
56-1992   5-19-1992   Emergency Shelter Grants Program; to be distributed to
                      the Shelter of Hope, Inc. and the Safe Harbor Spouse
                      Abuse Center.
                      Authorizing agreement with Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse
60-1992   5-19-1992   Center, Inc., the subrecipient of a $24,000 grant under
                      the emergency shelter grants program.
                      Authorizing agreement with the Shelter of Hope, Inc., the
61-1992   5-19-1992   subrecipient of a $16,000 grant under the emergency
                      shelter grants program.
                      Authorizing submission of a statement of objectives and
                      activities for the eighteenth year community development
61-1992   5-19-1992   block grant in the sum of $780,000 to the Federal
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development, and
                      execution of related documents.
                      Authorizing agreement with the State Cabinet for Human
63-1992   5-22-1992   Resources, Department for Social Insurance for
                      continuation of the city s community development
                      weatherization program in the amount of $127,164.
                      Authorizing submission of grant application to the state
68-1992   5-22-1992   police in the amount of $79,377 for sixth year
                      continuation of the tri-state office of traffic safety.
                      Authorizing interlocal cooperation agreement with several
70-1992   6-8-1992    cities and other public agencies for the operation of the
                      FIVCO Area Drug Enforcement Task Force.
                      Authorizing contract between the city bus system and the
94-1992   7-21-1992   Federal Transit Administration, granting $500,503 for
                      capital and operating assistance.
                      Authorizing agreement with State Transportation Cabinet
97-1992   7-31-1992   for funding in the amount of $42,500 representing the
                      state s match for the purchase of capital maintenance
                      items.
                      Authorizing increase in Section 8 assisted housing
                      program annual contributions contract for the voucher
112-1992  8-27-1992   program by $164,006; authorizing execution of contract
                      with Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development
                      under project no. KY 36-V142-007 and execution of related
                      documents.
113-1992  8-27-1992   Authorizing agreement with Sanitation District No. 4 to
                      accept and treat domestic strength wastewater.
                      Authorizing grant agreement with State Housing
117-1992  9-1-1992    Corporation for $25,000 grant under the grants to the
                      elderly for energy repairs program.
                      Authorizing amendment of Section 8 assisted housing
120-1992  9-15-1992   program annual contributions contract for the existing
                      housing certificate program and execution of related
                      documents due to amended contract.
                      Authorizing interlocal cooperation agreement with certain
126-1992  10-20-1992  municipal corporations relating to the Kentucky League of
                      Cities funding trust program.
                      Authorizing grant application to the State Justice
128-1992  10-20-1992  Cabinet for funds in the amount of $15,361 for
                      continuation of the Drug Abuse Resistance Education
                      (DARE) grant.
                      Authorizing interlocal cooperation agreement amendment
159-1992  12-16-1992  approving the participation of the Morgan County Sheriff
                      s Department in the FIVCO Area Drug Enforcement Task
                      Force.
                      Authorizing interlocal cooperation agreement establishing
38-1993   5-4-1993    the local government consortium for the Tenco service
                      delivery area.
                      Authorizing an application for membership in the Kentucky
53-1993   5-26-1993   League of Cities workers compensation trust and
                      authorizing execution of related documents.
                      Authorizing submission of a statement of objectives and
                      activities for the nineteenth year community development
54-1993   5-26-1993   block grant in the sum of $883,000 to the Federal
                      Department of Housing and Urban Development and execution
                      of related documents.
                      Authorizing agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the
59-1993   6-1-1993    subrecipient of a $10,000 grant under the emergency
                      shelter grants program.
                      Authorizing agreement with Safe Harbor of Northeast
60-1993   6-1-1993    Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of a $10,000 grant under
                      the emergency shelter grants program.
                      Authorizing agreement with the State Department of
70-1993   6-21-1993   Housing, Buildings and Construction, granting additional
                      responsibility under the Kentucky Building Code.
                      Authorizing grant agreement with the Kentucky Housing
85-1993   8-17-1993   Corporation for a $25,000 grant under the grants to the
                      elderly for energy repairs program.
                      Authorizing contract between the city bus system and the
87-1993   8-3-1993    Federal Transit Administration, granting $476,226 for
                      capital and operating assistance.
                      Authorizing application to the U.S. Department of Housing
92-1993   8-17-1993   and Urban Development for 15 subsidized housing
                      certificates and/or vouchers for Section 8 housing, and
                      further authorizing all related documents.
94-1993   9-2-1993    Authorizing mutual aid agreement for fire protection
                      services with the City of Russell.
                      Authorizing grant application to the state Department of
115-1993  10-21-1993  Local Government in the amount of $5,000 for the
                      community rivers and streams program.
                      Authorizing agreement with the State Transportation
139-1993  12-16-1993  Cabinet for funding in the amount of $38,614 representing
                      the state s match for the purchase of capital maintenance
                      items.
                      Authorizing grant agreement between the city bus system
7-1994    1-6-1994    and the Federal Transit Administration regarding grant
                      #KY-90-x067, amendment no. 1, granting an additional
                      $344,000 for capital and operating assistance.
8-1994    1-6-1994    Authorizing mutual aid agreement for fire protection
                      services with the City of Catlettsburg.
9-1994    1-6-1994    Authorizing mutual aid agreement for fire protection
                      services with the City of Worthington.
                      Authorizing agreement with the State Transportation
41-1994   3-17-1994   Cabinet in the amount of $525,000 for the Ashland Depot
                      renovation project, and authorizing other related
                      documents.
                      Authorizing grant application to the federal transit
                      administration on behalf of the city bus system for
42-1994   3-17-1994   operating costs in the amount of $184,045, capital outlay
                      items in the amount of $72,400 and planning in the amount
                      of $5,200, and further authorizing related documents.
63-1994   5-19-1994   Authorizing mutual aid agreement for fire protection
                      services with the Westwood Fire Department.
                      Authorizing statement of objectives and activities for
65-1994   5-19-1994   the twentieth year community development block grant in
                      the sum of $977,000 to the Federal Department of Housing
                      and Urban Development, and related documents.
                      Authorizing EPA assistance agreement/amendment with the
69-1994   5-19-1994   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for an additional
                      grant offer of $3,550.
                      Authorizing agreement with Cannonsburg Water District to
76-1994   6-2-1994    allow Cannonsburg Water District to serve property
                      located off of Camelot Drive which is outside of
                      Cannonsburg s water district.
                      Authorizing grant agreement with the Kentucky Housing
89-1994   6-28-1994   Corporation for a $25,000 grant under the grants to the
                      elderly for energy repairs program.
                      Authorizing grant from the Kentucky Justice Cabinet,
94-1994   7-7-1994    Division of Grants Management, for funds in the amount of
                      $13,630 for continuation of the Drug Abuse Resistance
                      Education (DARE) Program.
                      Authorizing grant agreement with the Kentucky Housing
                      Corporation for an award of $50,000 under the emergency
102-1994  7-21-1994   shelter grant program to be distributed to the Shelter of
                      Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor, Inc. and the Community
                      Assistance Referral Service/YWCA.
                      Authorizing agreement with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the
103-1994  8-4-1994    subrecipient of $21,810 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Safe Harbor,
104-1994  8-4-1994    Inc., the subrecipient of $18,900 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with CARES (YWCA), the
105-1994  8-4-1994    subrecipient of $9,290 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement between the city and
131-1994  10-6-1994   the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for funding in the
                      amount of $9,050 representing the state s match for the
                      purchase of capital maintenance items.
                      Authorizing execution of mutual aid agreements for the
138-1994  10-6-1994   fire protection services between the city and the Fire
                      Departments of Big Sandy, Cannonsburg, East Fork,
                      Flatwoods, Olive Hill, Raceland and Summit-Ironville.
149-1994  11-17-1994  Authorizing execution of a mutual aid agreement for fire
                      protection services with Ashland Oil, Inc.
                      Authorizing execution of a mutual aid agreement for fire
150-1994  11-17-1994  protection services with the Little Sandy Fire
                      Department.
151-1994  11-17-1994  Authorizing execution of a mutual aid agreement for fire
                      protection services with the Wurtland Fire Department.
                      Repealing Ord. 70-1992 and 159-1992 and authorizing
                      execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement with the
1-1995    1-5-1995    Cities of Flatwoods, Grayson, Russell and Raceland and
                      the Elliott County Sheriffs Department for the operation
                      of the FIVCO Area Drug Enforcement Task Force.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
33-1995   3-16-1995   Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the Ashland
                      Bus System for operating costs, capital outlay item and
                      planning.
44-1995   5-4-1995    Authorizing execution of a mutual aid agreement for fire
                      protection services with the South Shore Fire District.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency shelter
50-1995   5-4-1995    grants program to be distributed to the Shelter of Hope,
                      Inc., the Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse Center, the Community
                      Assistance Referral Service/YWCA and the Salvation Army.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
51-1995   5-4-1995    Kentucky Justice Cabinet for the continuation of funding
                      for the drug abuse resistance education program.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
52-1995   5-4-1995    Kentucky Justice Cabinet for funding for a traffic
                      alcohol program grant.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with the U.S.
94-1995   8-3-1995    Department of Housing and Urban Development regarding the
                      Section 8 consolidated annual contributions contract.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Kentucky
101-1995  8-17-1995   Transportation Cabinet for the city s bus systems capital
                      maintenance items.
                      Authorizing execution of a subrogation agreement with
153-1995  11-16-1995  Kentucky Petroleum Storage Tank Environmental Assurance
                      Fund Commission.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Shelter of Hope,
162-1995  12-21-1995  Inc. the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Salvation
163-1995  12-21-1995  Army, the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Safe Harbor of
164-1995  12-21-1995  Northeast Kentucky, the subrecipient from a grant under
                      the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Community
165-1995  12-21-1995  Action Referral Service, the subrecipient from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
27-1996   3-21-1996   Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the Ashland
                      Bus System for operating costs and capital outlay items.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency shelter
43-1996   5-2-1996    grant program to be distributed to the Salvation Army,
                      Shelter of Hope, Inc. the Safe Harbor, Inc., Community
                      Assistance Referral Service/YWCA and Pathways.
44-1996   5-16-1996   Authorizing execution of a mutual aid agreement for fire
                      protection services with the City of Ironton, Ohio.
                      Authorizing execution of an interlocal agreement with the
79-1996   7-18-1996   City of Catlettsburg and the Counties of Boyd and
                      Greenup.
                      Authorizing submittal of an urban and community forestry
80-1996   7-18-1996   grant application on behalf of the Ashland Tree Board to
                      the Kentucky Division of Forestry for Project Maintain
                      and Educate.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the U.S.
81-1996   7-18-1996   Department of Justice, to purchase equipment to aid the
                      Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Kentucky
82-1996   8-1-1996    Transportation Cabinet for the Ashland Bus Systems
                      capital maintenance items.
                      Authorizing execution of an amended interlocal agreement
111-1996  11-7-1996   with the City of Catlettsburg and the Counties of Boyd
                      and Greenup.
129-1996  12-5-1996   Authorizing participation in the Kentucky League of
                      Cities funding trust lease financing program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Community
13-1997   2-20-1997   Action Referral Service, the subrecipient from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Salvation
14-1997   2-20-1997   Army, the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Shelter of Hope,
15-1997   2-20-1997   Inc. the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Safe Harbor,
16-1997   2-20-1997   Inc., the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Pathways, Inc.
22-1997   3-6-1997    the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency shelter
                      grant program.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
30-1997   3-20-1997   Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the Ashland
                      Bus System for operating costs.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
33-1997   3-20-1997   with the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Cabinet for Economic
                      Development, for a grant to host an upcoming conference.
                      Authorizing execution of an application with the
44-1997   4-2-1997    Department of Emergency Services for federal financial
                      assistance referencing the flood financial disaster
                      declaration of March 3, 1997.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency shelter
51-1997   4-17-1997   grant program to be distributed to the Salvation Army,
                      Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse
                      Center and Community Assistance Referral Service/YWCA.
                      Authorizing submittal of a grant application to the U.S.
85-1997   6-26-1997   Department of Justice, to purchase equipment to aid the
                      Police Department.
                      Repealing Ord. 113-1990 and authorizing execution of an
99-1997   7-17-1997   interlocal cooperation agreement with the City of
                      Bellefonte relating to participation in the regional
                      public safety communication center.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Community
144-1997  11-6-1997   Action Referral Service, the subrecipient from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Salvation
145-1997  11-6-1997   Army, the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Safe Harbor of
146-1997  11-6-1997   Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with Shelter of Hope,
147-1997  11-6-1997   Inc., the subrecipient from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
31-1998   3-19-1998   Federal Transmit Administration on behalf of the Ashland
                      Bus System for operating costs.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation in the amount of $90,000
42-1998   4-16-1998   under the emergency shelter grant program for
                      distribution to Pathways, Inc., the Shelter of Hope,
                      Inc., the Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse Center and Community
                      Assistance Referral Service/YWCA.
                      Authorizing submission of the 1998 action plan in the
44-1998   5-7-1998    amount of $855,000 for a community development block
                      grant to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development.
                      Authorizing submission of a highway safety grant
49-1998   5-7-1998    application to the Kentucky State Police in the amount of
                      $45,320 for the Police Department.
59-1998   6-18-1998   Authorizing submission of a Renaissance Kentucky grant
                      application to the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
                      Authorizing submission of an application to the U.S.
69-1998   7-16-1998   Department of Justice for a local law enforcement block
                      grant in the amount of $26,200 for the Police Department.
                      Authorizing submission of an application to the
76-1998   8-20-1998   Commonwealth of Kentucky Department for Local Government
                      of a grant in the amount of $2,150,000 for renovations to
                      the Paramount Arts Theater.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Pathways, Inc.
88-1998   10-1-1998   for a grant in the amount of $8,300 under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Shelter of
89-1998   10-1-1998   Hope, Inc. for a grant in the amount of $45,000 under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Salvation
90-1998   10-1-1998   Army for a grant in the amount of $38,500 under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Safe Harbor,
91-1998   10-1-1998   Inc. for a grant in the amount of $25,000 under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Community
92-1998   10-1-1998   Action Referral Service for a grant in the amount of
                      $3,200 under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Kentucky
104-1998  11-19-1998  Housing Corporation for matching grant funds for a repair
                      affair program.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
111-1998  12-3-1998   Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the purchase of an
                      autocite automated citation issuance system.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
115-1998  12-3-1998   Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the expansion of the
                      Kentucky Highlands Museum Children s Discovery Center.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
30-1999   4-1-1999    Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the city s
                      bus system.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency shelter
33-1999   4-1-1999    grant program to be distributed to Pathways, Inc., the
                      Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse
                      Center and Community Assistance Referral Service.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the U.S.
55-1999   5-20-1999   Dept. of Housing and Urban Development for a welfare-to-
                      work, Section 8 tenant-based assistance program.
70-1999   6-17-1999   Authorizing grant agreement with Kentucky Housing Corp.
                      re Renaissance Kentucky.
71-1999   6-17-1999   Authorizing amended interlocal agreement with cities of
                      Catlettsburg, Bellefonte and Boyd County regarding RPSCC.
                      Authorizing submission of the Ashland Bus System
                      disadvantaged business enterprise program to the U.S.
81-1999   7-1-1999    Department of Transportation, Federal Transit
                      Administration, for the city to be eligible for grant
                      monies.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Community
87-1999   7-15-1999   Action Referral Service for a grant in the amount of
                      $3,000 under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Pathways, Inc.
88-1999   7-15-1999   for a grant in the amount of $8,500 under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Safe Harbor
89-1999   7-15-1999   for a grant in the amount of $20,000 under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Salvation
90-1999   7-15-1999   Army for a grant in the amount of $27,500 under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Shelter of
91-1999   7-15-1999   Hope, Inc. for a grant in the amount of $50,000 under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
94-1999   8-5-1999    Kentucky Division of Forestry, Urban and Community
                      Forestry program for the riverfront tree planting
                      project.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the U.S.
106-1999  9-1-1999    Department of Justice for a local law enforcement block
                      grant in the amount of $26,106.00 for the Police
                      Department.
                      Authorizing execution of amendment no. 2 to the Boyd
109-1999  9-16-1999   County interlocal cooperation agreement for civil
                      preparedness.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with the Ashland
114-1999  10-7-1999   Housing Authority allowing city staff to assist the
                      Housing Authority in an attempt to improve the quality of
                      services at the Authority.
                      Authorizing execution of a grant agreement with the
7-2000    1-20-2000   Kentucky Housing Corporation for matching grant funds for
                      a repair affair program.
                      Authorizing execution of an application with the
32-2000   3-16-2000   Department of Emergency Services for federal financial
                      assistance reference the flood disaster declaration of 2-
                      18-2000.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency shelter
42-2000   4-6-2000    grant program to be distributed to the Pathways, Inc.,
                      the Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse
                      Center, Community Assistance Referral Service/YWCA and
                      Salvation Army.
                      Authorizing execution of a grant agreement between the
46-2000   4-20-2000   Kentucky Housing Corporation, the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky and the city regarding Renaissance Kentucky.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
                      Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the Ashland
                      Bus System for operating costs in the amount of $229,660;
47-2000   4-20-2000   capital assistance reimbursement for preventive
                      maintenance in the amount of $42,500 and capital
                      assistance for paratransit service in the amount of
                      $47,340; and the purchase of two cutaway-chassis buses in
                      the amount of $96,000.
                      Authorizing submission of a highway safety grant
61-2000   5-18-2000   application to the Kentucky State Police, highway safety
                      standards branch, in the amount of $55,800.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with the community
95-2000   8-3-2000    action referral service, the subrecipient of $2,200 from
                      a grant under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Pathways, Inc.
96-2000   8-3-2000    the subrecipient of $7,700 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Safe Harbor of
97-2000   8-3-2000    Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of $19,200
                      from a grant under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with the Salvation
98-2000   8-3-2000    Army, the subrecipient of $26,700 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Shelter of Hope,
99-2000   8-3-2000    Inc., the subrecipient of $49,200 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
109-2000  8-24-2000   with the Finance and Administration Cabinet, and the
                      Paramount Arts Center authorizing the city to serve as
                      the recipient of the project grant money.
                      Authorizing submission of an application for federal
110-2000  8-24-2000   assistance to the U.S. Economic Development
                      Administration for the water plant expansion project.
                      Authorizing a modification to the repair affair program
124-2000  9-21-2000   grant agreement with the Kentucky Housing Corporation,
                      extending the agreement to June 30, 2003.
                      Filing for loan assistance from the federally- assisted
125-2000  9-21-2000   drinking water revolving fund (state revolving loan
                      program).
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the U.S.
129-2000  9-21-2000   Department of Justice for a local law enforcement block
                      grant in the amount of $18,414 for the Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
170-2000  12-7-2000   with the Education, Arts and Humanities Cabinet and the
                      Paramount Arts Center authorizing the city to serve as
                      the recipient of the project grant money.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement to transfer
                      ownership of water system and agreement to supply water
27-2001   3-1-2001    between the Northeast Kentucky Regional Industrial
                      Authority, the city and the Cannonsburg Water District
                      regarding East Park.
                      Authorizing submission of the 2001/2002 grant application
                      to the Federal Transit Administration on behalf of the
                      Ashland Bus System for operating costs in the amount of
40-2001   4-5-2001    $303,370; capital assistance reimbursement for preventive
                      maintenance in the amount of $47,500 and capital
                      assistance for paratransit service in the amount of
                      $50,125.
                      Authorizing execution of a modification to the facade
44-2001   4-5-2001    agreement between the Kentucky Housing Corporation, the
                      Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city regarding
                      Renaissance Kentucky.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the
                      Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency shelter
45-2001   4-5-2001    grant program to be distributed to Pathways, Inc., the
                      Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse
                      Center, Community Assistance Referral Service/YWCA and
                      Salvation Army.
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding
58-2001   5-3-2001    between the Ashland Community Development Agency and the
                      Cabinet for Families and Children.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with the Community
86-2001   6-21-2001   Action Referral Service, the subrecipient of $2,095 from
                      a grant under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Pathways, Inc.,
87-2001   6-21-2001   The subrecipient of $7,333 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Shelter of Hope,
88-2001   6-21-2001   Inc. the subrecipient of $46,857 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with the Salvation
89-2001   6-21-2001   Army, the subrecipient of $25,429 from a grant under the
                      emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Safe Harbor of
90-2001   6-21-2001   Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of $18,286
                      from a grant under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing execution of modification to the facade
91-2001   6-21-2001   agreement between the Kentucky Housing Corporation and
                      the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city regarding
                      Renaissance Kentucky.
                      Authorizing execution and submission of an application to
100-2001  6-28-2001   Kentucky Employer s Mutual Insurance through Acordia of
                      Kentucky for workers compensation benefits.
                      Authorizing submission of a grant application to the U.S.
105-2001  8-2-2001    Department of Justice for a local law enforcement block
                      grant in the amount of $21,235 for the Ashland Police
                      Department.
                      Authorizing execution of a modification to the facade
18-2002   1-31-2002   agreement between the Kentucky Housing Corporation, the
                      Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city regarding
                      Renaissance Kentucky.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with the Ashland
22-2002   2-21-2002   Main Street Program, Inc. regarding Renaissance,
                      Kentucky.
D+>Ord.   Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a grant
                      application to the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the
38-2002   4-4-2002    emergency shelter grant program to be distributed to
                      Pathways, Inc., Shelter of Hope, Inc., Safe Harbor of
                      Northeastern Kentucky, Community Assistance Referral
                      Service and Salvation Army.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a grant
                      application to the Federal Transit Administration of
                      behalf of the city bus system for operating costs,
41-2002   4-18-2002   capital assistance reimbursement for preventive
                      maintenance, capital assistance for paratransit service
                      and capital assistance for individual items and further
                      to execute any and all documents necessary for the
                      implementation of the grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
71-2002   7-2-2002    execute a contract with the community action referral
                      service, the subrecipient of $2,095 from a grant under
                      the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
72-2002   7-2-2002    execute a contract with Pathways, Inc., the subrecipient
                      of $7,333 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
73-2002   7-2-2002    execute a contract with Safe Harbor of Northeast
                      Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of $18,286 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
74-2002   7-2-2002    execute a contract with the Salvation Army, the
                      subrecipient of $25,429 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
75-2002   7-2-2002    execute a contract with Shelter of Hope, Inc., the
                      subrecipient of $46,857 from a grant under the emergency
                      shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
77-2002   7-18-2002   submit a grant application to the U.S. Department of
                      Justice for a local law enforcement block grant in the
                      amount of $21,827.
99-2002   9-5-2002    Approving and adopting the Ashland, Boyd County, and
                      Catlettsburg Emergency Operations Plan.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute and submit a loan application and appoint an
105-2002  9-19-2002   appropriate local government official and successors-in-
                      title as official project representatives of the
                      federally assisted drinking water revolving fund (state
                      revolving loan program) project.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
                      execute an agreement between the city, Ashland Police
                      Department, and the Department of Justice and the
124-2002  10-17-2002  Department of the Treasury for the Federal Equitable
                      Sharing Agreement which allows the receipt of cash,
                      property or proceeds in federal cases when more than one
                      agency is involved.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
131-2002  11-21-2002  Commonwealth of Kentucky statewide emergency management
                      mutual aid and assistance agreement.
                      Authorizing acceptance of and directing the Mayor to
7-2003    1-2-2003    execute documents necessary between the city and the
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for Renaissance Kentucky
                      transportation enhancement funds.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
91-2003   8-7-2003    Pathways, Inc., the subrecipient of $7,333 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
92-2003   8-7-2003    Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc., the subrecipient of
                      $18,286 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
93-2003   8-7-2003    of Hope, Inc., the subrecipient of $46,857 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
94-2003   8-7-2003    Salvation Army, the subrecipient of $25,429 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
95-2003   8-7-2003    Community Action Referral Services, the subrecipient of
                      $2,095 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
138-2003  11-4-2003   the U.S. Department of Justice for a local law
                      enforcement block grant in the amount of $12,705 for the
                      Police Department.
                      Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement with
145-2003  11-20-2003  Kentucky Infrastructure Authority for financing of a
                      project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
                      the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency
45-2004   4-1-2004    shelter grant program to be distributed to Pathways,
                      Inc., Shelter of Hope, Safe Harbor of Northeastern
                      Kentucky, Community Assistance Referral Service and
                      Salvation Army.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2004 action plan for
55-2004   5-6-2004    a community development block grant with U.S. Department
                      of Housing and Urban Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2005 grant
56-2004   5-6-2004    application to the Federal Transit Administration on
                      behalf of the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
57-2004   5-6-2004    agreement between the Commonwealth of Kentucky Commission
                      on Human Rights and Ashland Human Rights Commission for
                      $1,500 grant for fair housing event.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Kentucky Police
58-2004   5-6-2004    Governor s Highway Safety Program Campaign Grant
                      Agreement for funds for Buckle Up Kentucky It s the Law &
                      It s Enforced Campaign.
82-2004   6-24-2004   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a homeland security
                      grant on behalf of the Fire and Police Departments.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
157-2004  11-18-2004  the congestion mitigation and air quality improvement
                      program for the Police Department.
170-2004  12-16-2004  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Boyd
                      County Fiscal Court regarding the sewer district.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a 2005 Homeland Security
07-2005   2-3-2005    grant application for the Ashland Police and Fire
                      Departments.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
20-2005   2-10-2005   understanding with the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Justice
                      and Public Safety Cabinet, Department of Criminal Justice
                      Training for the Kentucky Preparedness Program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
                      the Kentucky Housing Corporation through the HOME Program
37-2005   3-17-2005   for $250,000 for the demolition/reconstruction of
                      dilapidated housing in the Pollard Road and east Ashland
                      target areas.
38-2005   3-17-2005   Amending the community development block grant
                      consolidated plan s 2004 action plan.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
42-2005   3-17-2005   the Justice and Safety Cabinet for $12,093 for the
                      Ashland Police Department.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
45-2005   4-7-2005    with the county regarding the 2005 Byrne justice
                      assistance grant program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant application to
                      the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the emergency
46-2005   4-7-2005    shelter grant program to be distributed to Pathways, Inc,
                      the Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor of
                      Northeastern Kentucky, Community Assistance Referral
                      Service and Salvation Army.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2006 grant
64-2005   5-5-2005    application to the Federal Transit Administration on
                      behalf of bus system for operating costs.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
143-2005  9-15-2005   city and Cannonsburg Water District to furnish potable
                      water for distribution and sale within its water
                      distribution system boundaries.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between the
                      city and Ashland Police Department and L.E.A.D.S. Online,
152-2005  10-20-2005  Inc. for providing a confidential database used
                      exclusively by law enforcement agencies for the purpose
                      of identifying stolen merchandise.
165-2005  11-3-2005   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a grant application in
                      the amount of $238,000 to the Office of the Governor.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute and submit a grant
                      application to the Kentucky Housing Corporation under the
                      emergency shelter grant program to be distributed to
34-2006   4-6-2006    Pathways, Inc., Shelter of Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor of
                      Northeastern Kentucky, Community Assistance Referral
                      Service, Salvation Army and/or any other qualifying
                      organization.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2006 action plan in
57-2006   5-4-2006    the sum of $940,000 for a community development block
                      grant to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with
111-2006  8-24-2006   community action referral services, the subrecipient of
                      $2,419 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
112-2006  8-24-2006   Salvation Army, the subrecipient of $24,194 from a grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Safe
113-2006  8-24-2006   Harbor of Northeast Kentucky, Inc. the subrecipient of
                      $17,419 from a grant under the emergency shelter grant
                      program.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with Shelter
114-2006  8-24-2006   of Hope, Inc. the subrecipient of $45,968 from a grant
                      under the emergency shelter grant program.
                      Authorizing the execution of an auto extrication and
117-2006  9-7-2006    extrication and rescue mutual aid agreement with the Fire
                      Department and Boyd County emergency medical services.
41-2007   4-19-2007   Authorizing a grant assistance agreement between the city
                      and the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal
61-2007   6-26-2007   cooperation agreement between the Regional Public Safety
                      Communication Center and the cities of Ashland and
                      Catlettsburg and Boyd County.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
125-2007  10-4-2007   for co-permitting to provide KPDES storm water discharge
                      permit services between the city, Boyd County and the
                      City of Catlettsburg.
100-2008  10-2-2008   Authorizing an agreement between the city and Boyd County
                      Sanitation District No. 4.
                      Authorizing a home funding agreement between the city and
123-2008  12-18-2008  Kentucky Housing Corporation for Kentucky home investment
                      partnerships program funds in the amount of $200,000.
                      Authorizing a home funding agreement between the city and
124-2008  12-18-2008  Kentucky Housing Corporation for Kentucky home investment
                      partnerships program funds in the amount of $175,000.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute and submit a grant
                      application to the Commonwealth of Kentucky for
1-2009    1-15-2009   Neighborhood Stabilization Program Funds to purchase and
                      redevelop abandoned or foreclosed homes or residential
                      properties for the Department of Planning and Community
                      Development.
                      Adopting the 2008 amended community development block
2-2009    2-5-2009    grant (CDBG) action plan for the Department of Planning
                      and Community Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a grant
4-2009    2-19-2009   application to the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance
                      Services (KLCIS) for a 2009 safety and liability grant.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement between
24-2009   3-5-2009    Windstream Kentucky East, LLC and the city regarding the
                      replacement of the existing phone system using existing
                      phones to upgrade service.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
78-2009   6-18-2009   between the city and the County of Boyd, Kentucky
                      regarding the 2009 Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program
                      Award.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interlocal agreement
79-2009   6-18-2009   between the city and the County of Boyd, Kentucky
                      regarding recovery act justice assistance grant program
                      award in the amount of $60,491.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interagency agreement
10-2010   2-11-2010   between the city and the Board of Education known as the
                      safe schools/healthy students initiative.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2010 action plan in
48-2010   5-6-2010    the sum of $851,529 for a community development plan
                      block grant to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
                      Development (HUD).
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute amendment no. 3 to the
63-2010   6-17-2010   Boyd County interlocal cooperation agreement for civil
                      preparedness date July 1, 1980.
91-2010   9-2-2010    Amending Ord. 145-1999, fixing the days, the time and
                      place for meetings of the Board of Commissioners.
95-2010   9-16-2010   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an interagency agreement
                      between the city and the Board of Education.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the 2011 action plan in
                      the sum of $1,059,747 for a community development block
                      grant to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
51-2011   5-5-2011    Development (HUD) and to execute an agreement with the
                      U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to
                      enable the city to undertake these activities and/or any
                      and all documents associated with the grant submittal.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute the statewide management
61-2011   6-2-2011    mutual aid and assistance agreement on behalf of the
                      city, the Police Department, the Fire Department and the
                      Department of Public Works.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the FY 2011 and 2012
                      grant application to the federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the Ashland Bus System for operating costs
81-2011   7-21-2011   in the amount of $876,324; capital assistance
                      reimbursement for preventive maintenance in the amount of
                      $172,855; capital assistance for paratransit service in
                      the amount of $128,880; capital assistance for
                      miscellaneous equipment in the amount of $87,816.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                      modification #1 to the Home Funding Agreement between the
99-2011   9-1-2011    city and Kentucky Housing Corporation reducing the
                      Kentucky home investment partnerships program funds from
                      $200,000 to $31,625.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                      modification #1 to the Home Funding Agreement between the
100-2011  9-1-2011    city and Kentucky Housing Corporation reducing the
                      Kentucky Home Investment Partnerships Program funds from
                      $175,000 to $56,238.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2013
                      grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the Ashland Bus System for operating costs
63-2012   8-16-2012   in the amount of $463,174; capital assistance
                      reimbursement for preventive maintenance, paratransit
                      service and maintenance payroll in the amount of
                      $119,407; capital assistance for fuel provisions in the
                      amount of $69,419.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a public
                      transportation grant agreement with the Kentucky
42-2013   4-18-2013   Transportation Cabinet for a FY 2013 capital and
                      operating grant in the amount of $23,603 for the Ashland
                      Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2014
                      grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
                      on behalf of the Ashland Bus System for operating costs
57-2013   6-12-2013   in the amount of $300,148; capital assistance
                      reimbursement for preventive maintenance, paratransit
                      service and maintenance payroll in the amount of
                      $191,430; capital grant 5339 funds in the amount of
                      $186,717 for the purchase of buses.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit an
                      application to the U.S. Department of Justice for funding
58-2013   6-12-2013   in the amount of $10,772 under the Edward Byrne memorial
                      justice assistance grant program; and upon acceptance, to
                      execute any and all documents associated with the grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit a highway
20-2014   2-27-2014   safety grant application to the Kentucky Transportation
                      Cabinet, Office of Highway Safety, of the City Police
                      Department for 10-1-2014 through 9-30-2015.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a public
                      transportation grant agreement with the Kentucky
28-2014   3-27-2014   Transportation Cabinet for the FY 2014 capital and
                      operating grant in the amount of $25,000 for the Ashland
                      Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a mutual
35-2014   4-24-2014   aid agreement with Catlettsburg Refining LLC on behalf of
                      the City Fire Department.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2014
44-2014   5-8-2014    action plan for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of HUD.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit an
                      application to the U.S. Department of Justice for funding
47-2014   5-22-2014   in the amount of $10,391 under the Edward Byrne memorial
                      justice assistance grant program; and upon acceptance, to
                      execute any and all document associated with the grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a trust
                      participation agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities
53-2014   6-26-2014   Insurance Services General Insurance Trust, and a
                      declaration of trust and trust participation agreement
                      for the Kentucky League of Cities Workers Compensation
                      Trust.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      memorandum of understanding between the U.S. Department
58-2014   6-30-2014   of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
                      Explosives (ATF) and the Ashland Police Department for
                      cooperation in violent crime investigations within their
                      respective jurisdictions.
                      Approving and adopting the Ashland, Boyd County and
74-2014   8-14-2014   Catlettsburg Emergency Operations Plan for the management
                      and coordination of all disaster and emergency response
                      in Ashland.
                      Adopting the 2014 program year amended community
                      development block grant (CDBG) action plan for the
86-2014   9-25-2014   Department of Planning and Community Development and
                      authorizing the submittal of any and all documents
                      associated with the grant.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a public
97-2014   12-11-2014  transportation grant agreement between the city and the
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for a fiscal year 2015
                      capital and operating grant for the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the Commonwealth of Kentucky
7-2015    1-8-2015    Transportation Cabinet and the city for the Ashland safe
                      routes to school federal project for the Department of
                      Engineering and Utilities.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the 2015
41-2015   5-14-2015   action plan for a community development block grant to
                      the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
                      (HUD).
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2015
92-2015   9-24-2015   and FY 2016 grant applications to the Federal Transit
                      Administration on behalf of the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing the execution of a public transportation
11-2016   1-28-2016   grant agreement with the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
                      for a fiscal year 2016 capital and operating grant for
                      the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a memorandum of
                      understanding between the Miami Valley Fire/EMS Alliance
118-2016  10-13-2016  and the City of Ashland, Ashland Fire Department,
                      regarding participation in the Ohio Task Force 1 Urban
                      Search and Rescue Team.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a public transportation
120-2016  10-27-2016  grant agreement between the city and the Kentucky
                      Transportation Cabinet for a fiscal year 2017 capital
                      state match contract grant for the Ashland Bus System.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to accept and execute the 2016
                      Homeland Security Grant through the homeland security
125-2016  11-10-2016  grants program administered by the Kentucky Office of
                      Homeland Security for the Ashland Fire Department in the
                      amount of $22,700.
                      Authorizing execution of contract with the Kentucky
40-2018   3-8-2018    Transportation Cabinet and KYOVA Interstate Planning
                      Commission regarding the metropolitan transportation
                      planning process (MPO).
57-2018   3-22-2018   Authorizing execution of agreement with Boyd County
                      Sanitation District No. 4.
                      Authorizing the mayor to execute a mutual aid agreement
15-2019   2-28-2019   between the city, the Ashland Fire Department and the
                      Tri-State Airport Authority Fire Rescue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit the FY 2021 grant
                      application to the Federal Transit Administration on
12, 2021  1-29-2021   behalf of the Ashland Bus System for operating costs,
                      preventative maintenance, para transit service,
                      maintenance payroll and capital expenditures.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
18, 2021  2-26-2021   agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for funding for ADA
                      upgrade to the 15th Street sidewalk.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
31, 2021  4-8-2021    agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for participation in the
                      design of the Dawes Street rehabilitation project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
32, 2021  4-8-2021    agreement between the city and the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for participation in the
                      design of the Winchester Avenue streetscape project.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit the FY 2022
                      grant application to the Federal Transit Administration
75, 2022  5-12-2022   on behalf of the Ashland Bus System for operating costs,
                      preventative maintenance, para transit service,
                      maintenance payroll and capital expenditures.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to submit an
                      application to the U.S. Department of Justice for a
                      comprehensive opioid, stimulant, and substance abuse
84, 2022  5-26-2022   site-based program to develop, implement, or expand
                      comprehensive programs in response to the overdose crisis
                      and impacts of illegal opioids, stimulants or other
                      substances.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      memorandum of agreement with the Commonwealth of
98, 2022  6-10-2022   Kentucky, Department of Military Affairs, Division of
                      Emergency Management, for reimbursement of expenses from
                      the winter storm February 8, 2021 through February 19,
                      2021.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a mutual
125, 2022 7-14-2022   aid agreement between the city, Ashland Fire Department
                      and the Route 504 Volunteer Fire Department in Elliott
                      County, Kentucky.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a mutual
132, 2022 7-29-2022   aid agreement between the city, Ashland Fire Department
                      and the Boyd County Emergency Management.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a KYWARN
139, 2022 8-11-2022   water/wastewater utility intrastate mutual aid agreement
                      on behalf of the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a mutual
                      aid agreement between the Knott County Fiscal Court and
140, 2022 8-11-2022   the city to provide sharing of resources, personnel and
                      equipment in the event of a local disaster or other
                      emergency.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a
                      supplemental agreement no. 1 between the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the city for the
91, 2023  6-23-2023   construction phase of the Winchester Avenue streetscape
                      project between 7th Street and 12th Street and 18th
                      Street through 21st Street for funding in the amount of
                      $1,560,000 with a 20 match to be paid by the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute
                      supplemental agreement no. 1 between the Commonwealth of
                      Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the city for the
                      construction phase of the Winchester Avenue streetscape
92, 2023  6-23-2023   project from 13th Street to 18th Street for funding in
                      the amount of $2,600,000 in federal highway safety
                      improvement funds and $800,000 in surface transportation
                      block grant funds with a 20 match to be paid by the city
                      on the surface transportation block grant funds.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the City of Ashland and the City of
124, 2023 9-14-2023   Flatwoods, Kentucky to furnish potable water for
                      distribution and sale within its water distribution
                      system.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a pre-award compliance
25, 2024  2-8-2024    review report for all applicants and recipients
                      requesting EPA financial assistance for the Department of
                      Community and Economic Development.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor Pro-Tem to execute a
                      subordination and intercreditor agreement between the
                      city and Community Trust Bank, Inc., Horizon Bank and
161, 2024 9-26-2024   Harbor Hill, LLC regarding a community development block
                      grant loan in the amount of $150,000 authorized by Ord.
                      96, 2008, regarding the renovation of the former TB
                      hospital project for the Department of Community and
                      Economic Development.
                      Authorization of submittal of application to FEMA for the
211, 2024 12-13-2024  assistance to firefighter s grant in the amount of
                      $650,000 for the purchase of a regional air and light
                      truck for the Fire Department.
                      Authorization of submittal of application to FEMA for the
212, 2024 12-13-2024  assistance to firefighter s grant for $65,000 for rescue
                      training and firefighting equipment.
                      Authorization of agreement with the Kentucky
7, 2025   2-11-2025   Transportation Department for construction of the
                      Winchester Avenue streetscape project from 13th Street to
                      18th Street.
                      3-27-2025Authorization of contract with Boyd County
         25, 2025    Sanitary Landfill, Inc. (Rumpke) for a suitable landfill
                      location for one year.
                      Authorization of submittal of Kentucky Pride Fund
27, 2025  3-27-2025   recycling grant application to the Kentucky Department
                      for Environmental Protection for household hazardous
                      waste program.
                     
 
 
TABLE XII: OPENINGS
 
 
Ord.    Date Passed Description
                    Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the city
56-1977 9-15-1977   and E. B. Lowman, contractor, relating to the opening and
                    improving of a portion of 9th Street lying between Carter
                    Avenue and Central Avenue.
                   
 
 
TABLE XIII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Deed of conveyance to Ashland Oil, Inc. for real estate
29-1977   5-12-1977   presently owned by the city and located at the southwest
                      corner of Winchester Avenue and 14th Street.
                      Leasing to Allied Chemical Corporation, Semet Solvay
46-1977   7-21-1977   Division, a certain parcel of land on 40th Street being
                      the old Ashland Water Works properties.
                      Leasing to Kentucky Power Company certain real estate
57-1977   9-15-1977   lying between 17th and 19th Streets, between Carter
                      Avenue and Central Avenue, formerly known as Railroad
                      Alley.
                      Authorizing the purchase by the city of a certain parcel
54-1978   8-17-1978   of real estate located on Bath Avenue at 8th Street in
                      the city, from Virginia Mahaney Adkins and Mary Eleanor
                      Mahaney.
                      Purchase by the city of all of the right, title and
                      interest of the Board of Education of the Ashland
                      Independent School District in the property known as the
                      Vocational School Property fronting on the southerly line
8-1979    2-15-1979   of Winchester Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets
                      including, lying, being and situated in the city and
                      being the following numbered lots as shown on the plat of
                      Clyffeside Subdivision dated September 12, 1924: Lots 2,
                      3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64,
                      65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 73, 74, 75, 78, 79, 80, and 81.
                      Authorizing the sale of a small, rectangular parcel of
10-1979   3-1-1979    Central Park containing some 440.4 square feet to the
                      Ashland Public Library Board.
                      Authorizing the execution of a certain deed of conveyance
                      for a parcel of land and easement in the vicinity of 26th
                      Street between Front Street and the Ohio River to Armco,
7-1980    1-24-1980   Inc., and accepting a certain deed of conveyance from
                      Armco, Inc. to the city for a parcel of land and easement
                      in that vicinity, for the intent and purpose of
                      constructing the wastewater treatment plant.
                      Deed of conveyance to Robert Simons and Sharon Simons,
                      his wife, conveying all right, title and interest in a
41-1980   5-1-1980    rectangular parcel of land nine inches in width and wall
                      thereon, the parcel fronting on Greenup Avenue and known
                      as 1516 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing that legal proceedings be initiated by the
58-1980   6-19-1980   Urban Renewal Agency in order to acquire Lot No. 9, Block
                      No. 5, of the Patton Subdivision through eminent domain.
                      Authorizing that legal proceedings be initiated by the
59-1980   6-19-1980   Urban Renewal Agency in order to acquire Lot No. 4, Block
                      No. 10, of the Patton Subdivision through eminent domain.
                      Authorizing that legal proceeding be initiated by the
                      Urban Renewal Agency in order to acquire the easterly
80-1980   8-7-1980    12.5 feet of Lot No. 2 and the westerly 25 feet of Lot
                      No. 3, in Block No. 4, of the Patton Subdivision through
                      eminent domain.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute the acceptance of the
                      quitclaim deed from the United States of America,
                      Department of Interior, with the terms and conditions,
107-1985  9-10-1985   including maintenance, recited therein for approximately
                      4.6 acres of land lying along the riverfront between 15th
                      and 16th Streets, more commonly known and referred to as
                      to Boat Dock Property .
                      Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase
                      agreement between the city and Bob Evans Farms for a
123-1985  10-31-1985  parcel of land bounded by Carter Avenue to the north,
                      Twelfth Street to the west, Mayo Plaza to the south and
                      the Thirteenth Street to the east.
7A-1986   1-30-1986   Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance to Bob
                      Evans Farms, Inc.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance between
19-1986   3-18-1986   the city and Boyd County, and the Ashland-Boyd County
                      Health Department.
44-1986   6-3-1986    Authorizing the Mayor to execute six options on behalf of
                      the Department of Utilities of the city.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amended lease
49-1986   6-18-1986   purchase agreement between the Board of Education of the
                      Ashland Independent School district and the city
                      concerning land known as the Vocational School Property .
                      Accepting a deed from John H. Lowe for use by the
                      Department of Utilities, Division of Water Distribution
50-1986   6-18-1986   pursuant to a previously obtained option being a parcel
                      of land located at intersection of Old Buckley Road and
                      State Route 5, Boyd County.
                      Accepting a deed from Eastern Kentucky Lumber and
                      Development Company for use by the Department of
                      Utilities, Division of Water Distribution pursuant to a
                      previously obtained option set out as follows:
                      (1) Water tank site. A 100 feet by 100 feet parcel
51-1986   6-18-1986   located on a knoll approximately 800 feet east of the
                      intersection of East Stevens Drive and West Stevens
                      Drive.
                      (2) Twenty foot right-of-way easement. Being a 20-foot
                      wide permanent right-of-way easement for construction and
                      maintenance of a water main to a water storage tank
                      situated in Boyd County.
                      Accepting a deed for certain real estate located on
                      Hearne Road (also known as New Barbeque Road) on Catletts
52-1986   6-18-1986   Creek in Boyd County from the heirs of John C. Hearne for
                      use by the Department of Utilities, Division of Water
                      Distribution.
                      Accepting a deed for two properties from Virgil Borders
53-1986   6-18-1986   and Catherine Borders for use by the Department of
                      Utilities, Division of Water Distribution pursuant to a
                      previously obtained option.
                      Accepting a deed for certain real estate beginning at an
                      iron pin at the intersection of the easterly right-of-way
54-1986   6-18-1986   line of Skyline Drive and the southerly right-of-way line
                      of Hogsten Drive from Frances Collier Hogsten for use by
                      the Department of Utilities, Division of Water
                      Distribution pursuant to a previously obtained option.
                      Accepting a deed for a parcel of land from Bobby Joe
55-1986   6-18-1986   Bellis and Mary Ester Bellis for use by the Department of
                      Utilities, Division of Water Distribution pursuant to a
                      previously obtained option.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed between the city
21-1987   2-17-1987   and the Board of Trustees of the Boyd County Library
                      District for two parcels of land.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a lease
43-1987   5-5-1987    agreement with General Telephone Company of the south,
                      for lease of premises located within the city on Pollard
                      Hill.
                      Authorizing the Mayor and other city officials to convey
                      the leased land and existing facility to Ashland Hospital
93-1987   9-1-1987    Corporation, a Kentucky corporation, d/b/a/ UK King s
                      Daughters, and cancel the lease agreement dated as of
                      August 1, 1983 and first amended lease agreement dated as
                      of April 1, 1985.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a lease
                      agreement between the city and Ernest E. and Melissa
4-1988    1-19-1988   Behnke concerning certain premises known as 2018
                      Winchester Avenue, consisting of three rooms upon the
                      second floor thereof for the Community Traffic Safety
                      Program.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a lease
80-1988   8-11-1988   agreement with Glimcher Company for the construction of a
                      retail shopping facility.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an option
115-1988  10-18-1988  with Jerry Lowman for the right-of-way adjoining Armco
                      Road.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a real
126-1988  11-3-1988   estate purchase agreement between the city and Barger
                      Kittle for a parcel of land known as 4160 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a real
135-1988  11-15-1988  estate purchase agreement between the city and the
                      Standard Slag Company for right-of-way along Armco Road
                      in the purchase price of $1,500.
                      Releasing all city interest in the property known as the
27-1990   4-3-1990    Ashland-Boyd County Health Department property at 1409
                      Blackburn Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a purchase-sale
                      agreement with CSX Transportation, Inc. for the purchase
108-1990  9-4-1990    of property located between the railroad tracks and the
                      Ohio River from the 12th Street right-of-way to 15th
                      Street at a cost of $75,000.
                      Authorizing the sale of Lot 48, Park Hill Realty Company
                      Forest Hills Subdivision No. 5, for the exchange of Lot
120-1990  10-2-1990   52 and $300 and accepting the deed from Carson Eswick of
                      Lot 52, Park Hill Real Company Forest Hills Subdivision
                      No. 5.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign two deeds between Johnny
                      and Belva L. Jackson and the city for property to be used
146-1990  11-27-1990  as street rights-of-way at the intersection of Winchester
                      Avenue and Mall Drive and at 7th Street near the
                      floodwall opening.
                      Authorizing the City Manager to pay to Jerry Lowman,
                      Administrator of the estate of E.B. Lowman the amount of
147-1990  11-27-1990  $148,500 in return for a warranty deed of conveyance to
                      the property recorded in deed book 514, page 717 to be
                      utilized as a portion of the Ashland Riverfront Park.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to sign and accept a deed of
156-1990  12-18-1990  conveyance between Jerry Lowman and the city for property
                      to be used for the Riverfront Park Project.
                      Authorizing purchase-sale agreement with CSX for the
122-1991  11-22-1991  purchase of property located between the railroad tracks
                      and the floodwall from approximately 10th Street to 15th
                      Street at a cost of $125,000.
                      Authorizing the use of community development block grant
127-1991  11-22-1991  program funds for the voluntary purchase of certain CSX
                      property adjacent to the Riverfront Park, not to exceed
                      $15,000.
                      Authorizing acceptance of deed of conveyance between
10-1992   1-31-1992   Mansbach Realty Co. and the city for property to be used
                      for the Riverfront Park Project.
                      Authorizing deed conveying the Paul G. Blazer High School
17-1992   2-18-1992   property to the Ashland Independent School District
                      Finance Corporation.
                      Authorizing deed conveying portions of the Oakview
24-1992   3-3-1992    Elementary School Building property and the Verity Middle
                      School property to the Ashland Independent School
                      District Finance Corporation.
                      Authorizing purchase offer/contract with CSX
45-1992   4-21-1992   Transportation, Inc. for the purchase of property located
                      on the east side of 30th Street at a cost of $1,500.
                      Authorizing acceptance of deed of conveyance from First
59-1992   5-19-1992   American Bank for property located at 14th Street and
                      Winchester Avenue and authorizing payment pursuant to
                      Ord. 141-1990, as amended by Ord. 78-1991.
                      Authorizing participation in the Kentucky Municipal
                      League pooled lease financing program, financing by the
77-1992   6-18-1992   city through the program of certain projects, execution
                      and delivery of a lease purchase agreement with the
                      Kentucky Municipal Finance Corporation and taking of
                      related action.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed conveying the Verity
136-1992  10-27-1992  Middle School, Hager Elementary School and Oakview
                      Elementary School property to the Ashland Independent
                      School District Finance Corporation.
                      Authorizing quitclaim deed to Boyd County Healthcare
142-1992  11-2-1992   Facility for easements located on property at Woodland
                      Avenue and Oakview Road.
                      Authorizing mutual termination of contract of lease and
19-1993   3-2-1993    rent with Ashland Oil, Inc. and further authorizing
                      general warranty deed to Ashland Oil, Inc. in the amount
                      of $1,000.
                      Authorizing general warranty deed to the Ashland/Ironton
42-1993   5-6-1993    Area Habitat for Humanity for property located in the
                      subdivision known as Mrs. H.M. McCown s Addition to
                      Pollard.
                      Authorizing execution of a purchase and sale agreement
38-1995   3-20-1995   with Ashland Hide Company for premises at the
                      intersection of land formerly known as Central Avenue and
                      formerly known as 25th and 26th Streets.
                      Authorizing execution of a sole ownership-cash deed with
49-1995   5-4-1995    the Department of Housing and Urban Development for
                      property located at 2232 Horne Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed and mortgage with Ashland
59-1995   6-1-1995    Community Development Agency Public Housing Authority and
                      First American Bank for property located at 1436 Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of a five-year lease agreement with
113-1995  9-21-1995   the Ardis Company for a radio antenna site located on the
                      13th Street reservoir property.
                      Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with GTW South
114-1995  9-21-1995   Incorporated for an antenna site located on Pollard Hill
                      retroactive to June 1, 1992, and continuing through May
                      31, 1996.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with National City Bank
29-1996   3-21-1996   for property located at the corner of 11th Street and
                      Carter Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of a five-year lease agreement with
75-1996   7-13-1996   the West Virginia Cellular Telephone Corp. for an antenna
                      site located on Pollard Hill.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of correction with Robert
95-1996   9-5-1996    F. and Carolyn K. Sexton for property located on
                      Blackburn Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with John D. and Carolyn
2-1997    1-2-1997    Smith for property located on Catletts Creek formerly
                      owned by the Catlettsburg, Kenova and Ceredo Water
                      Company.
                      Authorizing execution of an antenna site lease with the
                      Regional Public Safety Communication Center to lease
23-1997   3-6-1997    radio antenna sites located on the 13th Street reservoir
                      property, the Skyline Drive water tank and the Hall Ridge
                      water tank.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance from Dewey
43-1997   4-3-1997    Artrip and Phyllis D. Artrip for property located at 1312
                      Beech Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with the City of
59-1997   5-15-1997   Catlettsburg for property located in the City of
                      Catlettsburg formerly owned by the Catlettsburg, Kenova
                      and Ceredo Water Company.
                      Authorizing execution of a purchase offer/contract with
60-1997   5-15-1997   CSX Transportation, Inc. for the purchase of property
                      located between 27th and 37th Streets.
                      Authorizing execution of a standard commercial multi-
92-1997   6-30-1997   tenant lease with Greyhound Lines, Inc. for the purpose
                      of leasing space in the Ashland Transportation Center.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Jeddie Bowling,
120-1997  8-21-1997   executor of the estate of Zora Castle, and Sarah Bowling,
                      for property located at 619 10th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Helen Hunt,
121-1997  8-21-1997   executrix of the estate of Melvin Hunt, for property
                      located at 623 10th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a commercial property lease with
136-1997  10-16-1997  Churchill s Premium Cigars for the purpose of leasing
                      space in the Ashland Transportation Center.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with Morehead State
157-1997  11-20-1997  University to sublease space in Morehead s Ashland
                      facility for Department of Criminal Justice training for
                      the Police Department.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Riggs Machine &
13-1998   2-19-1998   Fabricating, Inc. for Lots 39 and 40 of the Clyffeside
                      Park property.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Riggs Machine &
14-1998   2-19-1998   Fabricating, Inc. for Lots 30 and 41 of the Clyffeside
                      Park property.
                      Authorizing execution of a general warranty deed from
34-1998   3-19-1998   Ashland Urban Renewal and Community Development Agency
                      for two lots located in Patton Subdivision of the Scott
                      Tract.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Dana Johnson and
46-1998   5-7-1998    Jill Johnson conveying certain real estate adjoining Lot
                      38 of the Forest Hills Subdivision No. 5 to the city.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Dana Johnson and
47-1998   5-7-1998    Jill Johnson conveying Lots 39, 40, and 41 of Forest
                      Hills Subdivision No. 5 to the Johnsons.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract for the purchase of a
84-1998   9-17-1998   6.34 acre tract of land owned by the Harry King Lowman
                      Estate.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance with the
25-1999   3-18-1999   Eastern Kentucky Firemen s Association for certain real
                      estate along Roberts Drive.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance with the
12-2000   2-17-2000   Commonwealth of Kentucky conveying certain real estate
                      along 29th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of deed with William R. Aschernauer
30-2000   3-16-2000   for the purchase of property at 29th Street and Beech
                      Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a commercial property lease for
45-2000   4-20-2000   the rental of 120 square feet of the Ashland
                      Transportation Center to Up, Up & Away Balloons.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with Brooks Wells, Inc.
55-2000   5-4-2000    regarding the purchase of property located at 325 14th
                      Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance with
82-2000   6-20-2000   Katherine E. Crance conveying property located at 2742
                      Beech Street for the purpose of constructing a new fire
                      station.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance with
111-2000  8-24-2000   Heritage Green, LLC regarding property located at the
                      corner of Carter Avenue and 9th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of an agreement with Heritage
112-2000  8-24-2000   Green, LLC regarding the use of property located at the
                      corner of Carter Avenue and 9th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed with the Commonwealth of
121-2000  9-21-2000   Kentucky, Department of Juvenile Justice, Justice
                      Cabinet, regarding the transfer of property located on
                      Roberts Drive.
                      Authorizing the extension of the standard commercial
123-2000  9-21-2000   multi-tenant lease with Greyhound Lines, Inc. in the
                      Ashland Transportation Center from July 16, 2002 through
                      July 15, 2007.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance with Leif
161-2000  11-16-2000  E. Clarke, conveying Lots 41, 42, 44 and 46 in the Park
                      Hill Realty, Co. Forest Hills Subdivision No. 6.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of conveyance with Leif
                      E. Clarke, conveying Lots 41, 42, 44 and 46 in the Park
118-2001  9-11-2001   Hill Realty, Co. Forest Hills Subdivision No. 6 and
                      authorizing and affirming the payment of $8,201 for said
                      property.
                      Authorizing execution of a lease agreement with Motient
33-2002   3-21-2002   Communications, Inc. regarding the antenna site lease on
                      the 13th Street reservoir property.
                      Authorizing the acceptance of a deed between Gerald and
84-2002   8-1-2002    Linda K. Kuhn and city regarding purchase by the city of
                      property located at 2717 Central Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the presiding Commissioner to
100-2002  9-19-2002   execute an agreement between the city and John B.
                      Christie regarding the leasing of parking spaces north of
                      the floodwall and west of the depot property.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
23-2003   3-6-2003    agreement creating a restrictive covenant between the
                      city and Anthony L. and Minerva Jane Horne regarding
                      property at 3120 Old 13th Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of release
125-2003  10-16-2003  regarding the Ashland-Boyd County Health Department
                      property located at 1409 Blackburn Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a master commissioner s
13-2004   1-22-2004   deed regarding Lots 71, 72, 82 and 83 of the Clyffeside
                      Subdivision.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of conveyance
65-2004   5-27-2004   between city and Jesse Stuart Foundation regarding
                      property located at corner of 17th Street and Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
117-2004  8-5-2004    agreement between the city and John B. Christie regarding
                      the leasing of parking spaces on the city-owned parking
                      lot at 15th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Community Holding of
118-2004  8-5-2004    Kentucky, LLC regarding the leasing of parking spaces on
                      the city-owned parking lot at 17th Street and Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
119-2004  8-5-2004    agreement between the city and OPR, Inc. d/b/a C.R.
                      Thomas regarding the leasing of parking spaces on the
                      city-owned parking lot at 17th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
136-2004  10-7-2004   agreement between the city and John B. Christie regarding
                      the leasing of parking spaces north of the floodwall and
                      west of the depot property.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed regarding the
174-2004  12-21-2004  sale of surplus property on 39th Street to the
                      International Pentecostal Church of Christ.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of conveyance
86-2005   6-2-2005    with United Ashland Ministries, Inc. conveying a portion
                      of a tract of land on 10th Street widening project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of conveyance
87-2005   6-2-2005    with United Ashland Ministries, Inc. and accepting a
                      portion of a tract of land on 10th Street to complete the
                      10th Street widening project.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed between the city and
39-2006   4-6-2006    Tony and Barbara Collins regarding the purchase of
                      property located at 406 through 410 Blackburn Avenue for
                      $50,000 to be paid from CDBG funds.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance between
22-2007   3-15-2007   Heritage Green, LLC and the city, reconveying to Heritage
                      Green, LLC property located at the corner of Carter
                      Avenue and 9th Street.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance between
23-2007   3-15-2007   the city and Heritage Green, LLC, accepting Lot No. 104A
                      on Carter Avenue between 8th and 9th Streets.
                      Authorizing the execution of a plat regarding property
24-2007   3-15-2007   located at 9th Street and Carter Avenue for the purpose
                      of creating minor subdivision between the city and
                      Heritage Green, LLC.
                      Authorizing the execution of the First Amendment to the
28-2007   3-27-2007   land lease agreement between the city and New Cingular
                      Wireless, PSC, LLC.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed between Blacktop
54-2007   5-22-2007   Industries and Equipment Company, Inc. for property at
                      Clyffeside Park.
                      Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement between
151-2007  12-6-2007   the city and Hinkle Oil & Gas for a gas well located on
                      the city s Reservoir Property in Catlettsburg.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance between
111-2008  11-20-2008  the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city, transferring
                      ownership of the Roberts Drive Bridge to the city.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance between
13-2009   2-25-2009   the city and Terry and Judy Midkiff regarding property
                      located at 1701 Greenup Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of conveyance
124-2009  9-17-2009   with Ashland Cemetery Company regarding the purchase of
                      the Ashland Cemetery.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed with Kelly J.
166-2009  12-3-2009   Forbes Warren and Gregory Warren for property located at
                      4108 Brown Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quitclaim deed with
16-2010   2-11-2010   Gary A. and Denitta M. Wrobleski for a 20 feet by 40 feet
                      piece of property on Franklin Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Dr.
27-2010   3-4-2010    Ronald L. Pearce regarding the leasing of parking spaces
                      on the city-owned parking lot at 15th Street and Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a lease agreement
106-2010  11-4-2010   between the city and the City of Greenup, Kentucky Police
                      Department for the lease of one used police vehicle.
                      Authorizing a deed of conveyance between the city and
116-2010  11-18-2010  JLSM, LLC for the purchase of property at 1525 Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing a tower access lease agreement with the
125-2011  11-17-2011  Commonwealth of Kentucky for access to the KET tower
                      between Debord Hill Road and Kilgore Drive.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed between the city and
11-2012   2-2-2012    Norris L. and Ella M. Suttles for the purchase of
                      property located on Roberts Drive.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute the second
38-2012   6-7-2012    amendment to the land lease agreement between the city
                      and new Cingular Wireless PSC, LLC.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quitclaim deed with
13-2013   2-7-2013    the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
                      regarding the excess right-of-way on the south side of
                      U.S. 23 on the hillside.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quitclaim deed with
14-2013   2-7-2013    the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
                      regarding the River Hill Drive roadbed and associated
                      right-of-way at its intersection with U.S. 23.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a deed
33-2013   3-21-2013   with Kimberly Jenkins for property located on 39th
                      Street.
34-2013   3-21-2013   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a deed
                      with John W. Jenkins for property located on 39th Street.
D+>Ord.   Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a deed to
16-2014   2-27-2014   the Board of Education of the Ashland Independent School
                      District and the Ashland Independent School District
                      Finance Corp. for the Crabbe Elementary School.
29-2014   3-27-2014   Approving a lease with the Kentucky Bond Corp. for
                      certain property for the financing of a project.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed between the city
69-2015   6-26-2015   and Mary Fairchild Webster regarding the acceptance of
                      the donation of property abutting the Charles and Betty
                      Russell Park Trail property.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed between the city
70-2015   6-26-2015   and Joy Fairchild Griffiths regarding the acceptance of
                      the donation of property abutting the Charles and Betty
                      Russell Park Trail property.
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed of conveyance with
48-2016   4-14-2016   Crescent Moon Properties, LLC for the sale of property
                      located at 1525 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the
99-2017   10-12-2017  city, Whayne Supply Company and ATC Sequoia, LLC,
                      regarding the lease of a cell tower.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a special warranty deed
114-2017  12-14-2017  between the city and Louisa Community Bank accepting the
                      donation of property at 1401 Winchester Avenue.
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with C.C. Price Land
10-2018   1-25-2018   Company regarding leasing of parking spaces on city-owned
                      parking lot at 15th Street and Greenup Avenue.
                      Approving a mediation agreement and authorizing the Mayor
175-2018  12-14-2018  to execute a quitclaim deed of conveyance between the
                      city and George C. Borst III and Janetta C. Borst
                      regarding Pembroke Place.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of conveyance
11-2019   2-14-2019   between the city and the Harvey Family Limited
                      Partnership regarding the donation of 11 lots adjacent to
                      the Charles and Betty Russell Park Trail property.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quitclaim deed of
                      conveyance between the city and Paul D. Stewart, Nella
89-2019   6-13-2019   Stewart and Savonna Montgomery regarding the acceptance
                      of the donation of property located at 3430 Central
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a real
127, 2022 7-28-2022   estate sales and purchase contract between the city and
                      Equestrian Properties for the purchase of 120 20th Street
                      by the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor, to execute an
                      agreement between the city and the Paramount Arts Center,
                      Inc. for the purchase of 1300, 1316 and 1322 Winchester
163, 2024 9-26-2024   Avenue, 332 13th Street and 333 14th Street by the city
                      in the amount of $3,000,000 and authorizing the Mayor to
                      execute any and all documents associated with and/or
                      necessary to complete said purchase of real property.
                     
 
 
TABLE XIV: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Closing two inaccessible portions of an alley lying
41-1977   7-7-1977    between Carter Avenue and Central Avenue, between 7th
                      Street and 9th Street.
                      Closing a portion of an alley lying southeasterly and
30-1978   5-18-1978   parallel to Greenup Avenue and extending from 27th Street
                      to 28th Street.
                      Closing portions of Oak Street (now called Acorn Street)
69-1978   10-5-1978   and a portion of an adjoining unnamed street lying within
                      and being a portion of the Scott Tract.
                      Closing a portion of an alley lying between Carter Avenue
73-1978   11-2-1978   and Central Avenue, between 7th Street and 8th Street
                      known as Railway Alley.
115-1982  12-9-1982   Closing an alley North of Greenup Avenue and running
                      between 14th Street and 15th Street.
116-1982  12-9-1982   Closing a portion of 14th Street located North of Greenup
                      Avenue.
                      Closing an alley running from 29th Street between Lots 23
19-1984   3-6-1984    and 24 and along the south side of Lots 24 and 25 to the
                      old streetcar right-of-way along Belmont Street.
10-1985   2-19-1984   Closing a portion of Madge Street just off Edgewood
                      Avenue in the Midland Heights Addition.
                      Closing two portions of the unpaved right-of-way adjacent
                      to Bath Avenue, between 13th Street and 12th Street and a
24-1986   4-9-1986    portion of the unpaved right-of-way adjacent to the west
                      side of 13th Street between Bath Avenue and Central
                      Avenue.
                      Closing a portion of 40th Street within the corporate
                      limits of the city beginning at a point in 40th Street
35-1987   4-21-1987   (formerly Chestnut Street), said street being 50.0 feet
                      in width and said point of beginning being 602 feet
                      easterly from the east line of Jefferson Street.
                      Closing a portion of an unnamed alley situated between
50-1987   5-19-1987   old and new Greenup Avenues, west of 33rd Street, in the
                      city and retaining a utility line easement for the entire
                      area of said alley.
                      Closing the two contiguous portions of unpaved public
94-1987   9-1-1987    right-of-way located at Lexington Avenue and 24th Street
                      and Lexington Avenue and 22nd Street.
15-1988   2-16-1988   Closing unpaved portions of front and 18th Streets.
22-1988   4-19-1988   Closing an unnamed alley in Block 6 of the Moriarty
                      Estate (Calvary Cemetery).
                      Closing a portion of the right-of-way of Central Avenue
53-1988   6-9-1988    and retaining the area beginning at a point in the
                      northerly right-of-way of Central Avenue as a utility
                      easement.
12-1989   2-21-1989   Closing a right-of-way between U.S. 60 and Shannon Drive
                      in the city.
27-1989   3-7-1989    Closing and retaining as a utility easement a portion of
                      Central Avenue.
                      Closing an unnamed alley separating Lots 3 and 4 from
37-1989   3-21-1989   Lots 5 and 6 of the Altamont Subdivision, and retaining
                      the area as a utility easement.
84-1990   8-7-1990    Closing an alley right-of-way at the dead end of Belford
                      Street.
                      Closing the right-of-way of 41st Street and closing
87-1990   8-15-1990   portions of an alley within the Washington/ Jefferson
                      Urban Renewal Project Area.
143-1990  11-19-1990  Closing portions of 6th Street.
                      Closing 16th Street to vehicular traffic, except for
63-1991   6-13-1991   emergency vehicles, from the floodwall to the north
                      right-of-way line of Front Street.
126-1991  11-22-1991  Closing 16th Street to vehicular traffic from the
                      floodwall to the north right-of-way line of front street.
                      Authorizing corporation counsel to institute action to
92-1992   7-21-1992   close an unimproved alley west of North Street in the
                      Scott Tract subdivision.
                      Authorizing and directing corporation counsel to
93-1992   7-21-1992   institute action to close portions of a right-of-way
                      between Oliverio Park and the Pentecostal Church of
                      Christ.
                      Authorizing and directing corporation counsel to
119-1992  9-15-1992   institute action to close portions of a right-of-way
                      between Ridgeway Avenue and Gartrell Street.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
37-1993   4-20-1993   action to close an alley between Lexington Avenue and
                      Gates Alley.
52-1993   5-6-1993    Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute and
                      action to close two alleys in the Scott tract.
93-1993   9-2-1993    Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
                      action to close a portion of Tucson Drive.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
122-1994  9-15-1994   action to close a 0.4 acre portion of 6th Street from
                      Mall Road to Front Street.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
51-1996   5-16-1996   action to close a 0.4 acre portion of 6th Street from
                      Mall Road to Front Street.
133-1996  12-19-1996  Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
                      action to close Henderson Court.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
11-1997   2-6-1997    action to close Montgomery Avenue from 22nd Street to
                      23rd Street.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execution an agreement with
12-1997   2-13-1997   Ashland Hospital Corporation d/b/a/ UK King s Daughters
                      relating to the closing of a portion of Montgomery
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
38-1997   4-3-1997    action to close a ten-foot alley from Blackburn Avenue to
                      York Street.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
80-1997   6-12-1997   action to close a potion of Weis Street and a 15- foot
                      alley running parallel with Weis Street.
                      Authorizing the corporation counsel to institute an
160-1997  11-20-1997  action to close 15-foot right-of-way in an alley between
                      39th and 40th Streets and Brown Avenue and Winchester
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing corporation counsel to institute an action to
9-1998    2-5-1998    close a portion of an alley between 8th and 9th Streets
                      and Carter and Central Avenues.
                      Authorizing corporation counsel to institute an action to
38-1998   4-2-1998    close an alley in Block 9 of the Gartrell Realty Co.
                      addition between Mound and Gartrell Streets.
                      Authorizing corporation counsel to institute an action to
7-1999    1-21-1999   close a 15-foot wide alley immediately behind the
                      Paramount Arts Center on the south side for a distance of
                      124.15 feet east from 13th Street.
                      Authorizing corporation counsel to institute an action to
98-1999   8-19-1999   close a 26.04-foot portion of a 15-foot wide alley
                      located behind the Paramount Arts Center on the south
                      side starting 124.15 feet east from 13th Street.
                      Authorizing corporation counsel to institute an action to
99-1999   8-19-1999   close the portion of Norwood Avenue located between 3205
                      and 3133 13th Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
78-2002   7-18-2002   portion of Workman Road and providing that all costs of
                      such action shall be paid by Workman and Sons Realty,
                      LLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
104-2002  9-19-2002   institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close
                      Hill Street and providing that all costs of such action
                      by paid by David and Pamela Dolen.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
108-2002  9-19-2002   institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
                      portion of Moegling Drive and providing that all costs of
                      such action be paid by John W. Clark.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
139-2002  11-21-2002  institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
                      portion of Emerson Street and providing that all costs of
                      such action be paid by James R. Wells.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
20-2003   2-20-2003   15-foot alley located in the Batesville Subdivision
                      facing McGurk Street and providing that all costs of such
                      action be paid by Lee F. Barrett.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
96-2003   8-21-2003   40-foot portion of 7th Street between Winchester and
                      Greenup Avenues, and providing that all costs of such
                      action be paid by Matriks Properties, LLC.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close an
116-2003  9-18-2003   unimproved alley on the south side of Lots 151 through
                      156 of Clyffeside Subdivision, and providing that all
                      costs of such action be paid by Oak Springs United
                      Baptist Church.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
28-2004   2-19-2004   15-foot alley parallel to and south of Bath Avenue
                      between 22nd and 23rd Streets and providing that all
                      costs of such action shall be paid by Ashland Hospital
                      Corporation.
                      Authorizing and directing the city corporation council to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
29-2004   2-19-2004   portion of the 4100 Block of Brown Avenue and an alley
                      parallel to the west of Winchester Avenue between 41st
                      and 42nd Streets in the city, and providing that all
                      costs of such action shall be paid by the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close an
121-2004  8-5-2004    unnamed alley parallel to and between 13th Street and
                      Hyman Avenue on the northeast side of Maryland Parkway in
                      the city.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
41-2005   3-17-2005   institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close
                      Patton Street, and providing that all costs of such
                      action shall be paid by Reynolds Enterprises, Inc.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
135-2005  9-1-2005    institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close an
                      unnamed alley behind 2517 West Euclid Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
62-2006   5-18-2006   institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close an
                      unimproved alley off Algonquin Avenue behind 2401 13th
                      Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
158-2007  12-20-2007  institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
                      portion of 23rd Street between Bath Avenue and Montgomery
                      Avenue.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
29-2009   3-19-2009   institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close
                      Payne s Alley.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
59-2010   6-17-2010   institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
                      portion of Gum Alley from Ramey Street to Cypress Street.
                      Authorizing and directing corporate counsel to institute
109-2010  11-4-2010   an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a 142.50
                      feet portion of the 15-foot alley between Cogan Street
                      and Madge Street.
                      Authorizing and directing corporate counsel to institute
78-2012   10-18-2012  an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a 15-foot
                      unimproved alley running parallel to Winchester Avenue
                      and Greenup Avenue at 32nd Street.
                      Authorizing and directing the corporate counsel to
                      institute an action in the Boyd Circuit Court to close a
29-2015   3-26-2015   walkway totaling 0.12 acres in the Chestnut Hills
                      Subdivision between 13th Street and Chestnut Hill Drive
                      in the city.
98-2016   9-8-2016    Closing a 200 foot portion of Mill Street located between
                      28th and 29th Streets.
                      Closing an unimproved portion of Cedar Street located
50-2019   4-11-2019   between Jenkins Street and Blackburn Avenue and running
                      parallel to 6th Street.
175, 2021 11-18-2021  Closing an unimproved portion of an unimproved alley
                      lying south and parallel to Peacock Mine Road.
60, 2022  4-15-2022   Closing the alley running parallel to Winchester Avenue
                      and Carter Avenue from 11th Street to 12th Street.
                      Closing:
                      (1) Bath Avenue between 22nd and 23rd Street;
165, 2022 10-13-2022  (2) 23rd Street between Bath Avenue and Central Avenue;
                      and
                      (3) An unnamed alley running parallel to Bath Avenue and
                      Central Avenue from 22nd Street to 23rd Street.
                      Closing Bath Avenue between 23rd and 24th Streets, and an
55, 2023  4-28-2023   unnamed alley running parallel to Bath Avenue and Central
                      Avenue from 23rd Street to 24th Street.
                     
 
 
TABLE XV: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Authorizing the new road located between Winchester
17-1989   3-7-1989    Avenue and the existing Greenup Avenue and between the
                      existing 4th Street and the existing 6th Street be named
                      Town Center Drive.
                      Changing the names of the following streets:
                      (1) The name of Sixth Street from its intersection with
                      the existing Greenup and Winchester Avenue shall be
                      renamed Mall Road.
18-1989   3-7-1989    (2) The name of 4th Street from its intersection with the
                      existing Greenup Avenue and Winchester Avenue shall be
                      changed to Armco Road.
                      (3) The name of Greenup Avenue from the existing 4th
                      Street to the existing 6th Street shall be changed to
                      Armco Road.
                      Changing the name of Locust Alley, which is located
43-1989   4-4-1989    parallel to and between Harlan Street and 13th Street,
                      running in a southerly direction from Cypress Street to
                      Cypress Court.
119-1991  11-19-1991  Naming the unnamed roadway between Chinn Street and Boone
                      Street as Hacker Drive.
137-1992  10-27-1992  Changing name of Wood Court to Ashwood Court.
                      Renaming 19th Street, from its intersection with
147-1992  11-17-1992  Lexington Avenue to its intersection with Chattin Drive,
                      to Chuck Woolery Road.
82-1994   6-2-1994    Designating KY 3201 adjacent to the 13th Street Bridge
                      only on the east side as an alley.
17-1996   2-15-1996   Naming the unnamed roadway off 13th Street (U.S. 60)
                      between Winslow Road and Moegling Drive as Pitino Court.
                      Naming the unnamed alley running parallel with Winchester
32-1997   3-20-1997   Avenue between Winchester Avenue and Williams Avenue from
                      49th Street to 52nd Street as Apple Blossom Lane.
45-1997   4-17-1997   Naming the unnamed alley running from Cleveland Street to
                      Main Street as Cleveland Street.
                      Changing the name of 12th Street from the bridge to its
71-1998   8-6-1998    intersection with 13th Street to Martin Luther King, Jr.
                      Boulevard.
81-2000   7-20-2000   Changing the name of Market Street to Korean War Veterans
                      Way.
                      Designating the city block located between 17th and 18th
110-2003  9-4-2003    Streets from Greenup Avenue to Winchester Avenue as
                      Freedom Square.
148-2004  11-4-2004   Renaming the park located at the intersection of
                      Blackburn Avenue and 29th St. as Norman Dutch Berry Park.
30-2006   3-16-2006   Changing the name of Russell Road to Providence Hill
                      Drive.
2-2012    1-19-2012   Changing the name of 18th Street between Winchester
                      Avenue and Carter Avenue to Henry Clay Boulevard.
                      Designating the unnamed alley located directly in front
87-2014   9-25-2014   of Putnam Stadium between Kansas Street and Elm Street
                      running parallel to South 29th Street to be named Dirk
                      Payne Lane.
39-2017   4-27-2017   Changing the name of Old 13th Street to Megan Neyer Way.
                      Renaming Judd Plaza located at the corner of 16th Street
122, 2020 8-27-2020   (formerly Broadway) and Winchester Avenue as Broadway
                      Square and repealing Ord. 140, 1990.
                      Naming the area located between 13th Street and 18th
123, 2020 8-27-2020   Street and from Greenup Avenue to Carter Avenue The
                      District , as recommended by Destination Ashland.
67, 2021  5-25-2021   Changing the name of 15th Street from Greenup Avenue to
                      the Port of Ashland Riverfront Park to Steve Gilmore Way.
                     
 
 
TABLE XVI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      Changing the zoning classification of 804, 808, 826, 833
9-1987    1-20-1987   Carter Avenue, 411 9th Street, 420 and 422 8th Street,
                      and a vacant lot on Central Avenue from R-4 Residential
                      to B-2 General Business.
10-1987   1-20-1987   Changing the zoning classification of Lot 16A on U.S. 60
                      from R-12 Residential to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property between
                      Moore Street and Payne Alley, and from the south Ashland
23-1987   2-18-1987   Business District to just west of Oakview Road from R-
                      5 Residential/Medium Density and B-2 General Business to
                      R-6 Residential/Medium Density.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 3232 and 3234
40-1987   5-5-1987    Greenup Avenue from I-1 Light Industrial to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2301 Montgomery
56-1987   6-16-1987   Avenue and 612 23rd Street from R-5 Residential to P-
                      H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2236-2240 Bath
115-1987  10-20-1987  Avenue and 609 23rd Street from R-5 Residential to P-
                      H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of a 39 acre tract of
7-1988    2-2-1988    land situated between Winchester Avenue, 7th Street,
                      Central Avenue and a CSX railroad track from I-1 Light
                      Industrial to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of properties on
13-1988   2-2-1988    Shannon Drive from R-12 Single-Family Residential to B-
                      2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of a 1.14 acre tract
52-1988   6-9-1988    on Roberts Road between Winslow Road and Blevins Street
                      from R-6 Residential to R-5 Residential.
                      Changing the zoning classification of certain properties
76-1988   8-2-1988    on Winslow Road from R-12 Residential to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located
81A-1988  8-16-1988   along U.S. 60 and Shannon Drive from R-12 Residential to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of Lots 14-23 and 26-
117-1988  11-1-1988   29 of the Mt. Adams Subdivision, commonly known as
                      Wildwood Nursery property, from R-6 Residential to B-
                      1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of two lots known as
                      Highland property on 29th Street between Unity Baptist
33-1989   3-21-1989   Parsonage and the Ashland Oil Service Station located on
                      29th Street and Blackburn Avenue, from R-5 Residential to
                      B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of a five acre lot on
52-1989   5-16-1989   Lansdowne Drive bordering Woodhaven Court to the
                      southeast, from R-12 Residential to B-1 Neighborhood
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of Lots 1-10, 13 and
53-1989   5-16-1989   14 known as a portion of Ward Hollow property, from R-
                      5 Residential to I-1 Light Industrial.
54-1989   5-16-1989   Changing the zoning classification of 920 Blackburn
                      Avenue, from R-5 Residential to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 3114, 3116 and 3120
                      Old 13th Street, also known as Lots 1A, 2 and 3 of Adkins
63-1989   6-15-1989   Brothers Subdivision, from R-5 Residential to B-
                      1 Neighborhood Business, reserving a ten foot deep
                      frontage along May Street as R-5 Residential.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 325, 329, 341 and
15-1990   3-6-1990    345 9th Street from R-4 Residential to B-2 General
                      Business.
16-1990   3-20-1990   Changing the zoning classification of Lots 17-A, 19-A and
                      20-A of the Moegling Heights Subdivision off U.S. 60.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 700 through 718
71-1990   7-17-1990   13th Street and 1309 through 1311 Lexington Avenue from
                      R-5 Residential to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of the southwest
142-1990  11-19-1990  corner of 17th and Front Streets from B-3 Downtown
                      Business to I-1 Light Industrial.
149-1990  12-4-1990   Changing the zoning classification of 1310 Ramey Street
                      from R-5 Residential to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2305, 2313, 2315
83-1991   7-16-1991   and 2317 Montgomery Avenue from R-5 Residential to P-
                      H Public Hospital.
102-1991  10-1-1991   Changing the zoning classification of 1004 29th Street,
                      Lot 31 from R-6 Residential to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 1700 Oakview Road
118-1992  9-15-1992   from R-6 Residential Single-Family to R-5 Residential
                      Multi-Family.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property on the
129-1992  10-20-1992  north side of Lexington Avenue from 24th Street to a line
                      177 feet west of 29th Street from R-5 Residential to P-
                      H Public Hospital.
130-1992  10-20-1992  Changing the zoning classification of 2234 Bath Avenue
                      from R-5 Residential to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of Lots 1A and 2A of
10-1993   1-29-1993   the McCowan Subdivision (corner of Dixon and Long
                      Streets) from R-6 Residential Single- Family to R-
                      5 Residential Multi-Family.
                      Changing the zoning classification of the rear portion of
40-1994   3-17-1994   Block 146, Lot 16 (behind 514 29th Street) from R-
                      5 Residential to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of Lot 3, Block 1 of
67-1994   5-19-1994   the Haney Subdivision (4938 Winchester Avenue) from R-
                      5 Residential Multi-Family to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2200 Bath Avenue
124-1994  9-15-1994   and 606 22nd Street from R-5 Residential to P-H Public
                      Hospital.
143-1994  10-20-1994  Changing the zoning classification of 2204 Bath Avenue
                      from R-5 Residential to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property along
31-1995   3-16-1995   Blackburn Avenue from R-5 and R-6 Residential to B-
                      2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
55-1995   5-18-1995   916 29th Street from B-1 Neighborhood Business to B-
                      2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
62-1995   6-1-1995    2926 Central Avenue from R-5 Multi-Family Residential to
                      B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2208, 2214, 2218,
115-1995  9-21-1995   2220 and 2230 Bath Avenue from R-5 Residential to P-
                      H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2309 and 2319
89-1996   8-15-1996   Montgomery Avenue and 621 24th Street from R-5 Single/
                      Multi-Family Residential to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2212 Bath Avenue
98-1996   9-19-1996   from R-5 Residential Medium Density to P-H Public
                      Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 619 24th Street
105-1996  10-17-1996  from R-5 Residential/Medium Density to P-H Public
                      Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 610 23rd Street,
131-1996  12-19-1996  611 and 615 24th Street, 2300, 2304, 2306, 2308, 2310,
                      2314, 2318, 2320 and 2322 Bath Avenue from R-
                      5 Residential/Medium Density to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of a 6.554 acre tract
90-1997   6-26-1997   of land on the north side of Armco Road and west of Old
                      6th Street from I-2 Heavy Industrial to B-2 General
                      Business.
172-1997  12-18-1997  Changing the zoning classification of 123 17th Street for
                      I-1 Light Industrial to B-3 Downtown Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of Lot 5 and parts of
173-1997  12-18-1997  Lots 6 and 8 on 17th Street between Greenup Avenue and
                      Front Street from I-1 Light Industrial to B-3 Downtown
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 1.649 acres located
82-1998   9-17-1998   at 734 Carter Avenue from R-4 High Density Residential to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of the northwest
83-1998   9-17-1998   intersection of 43rd Street and Winchester Avenue from I-
                      1 Light Industrial to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of Lots 4 and 5
95-1998   10-15-1998  located between Mall Road, 7th Street and a private road
                      from I-2 Heavy Industrial to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 1.125 acres located
107-1998  11-19-1998  between 6th Street and Front Street from 1-2 Heavy
                      Industrial to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
40-1999   4-15-1999   the 3100 block of 13th Street from R-5 Residential,
                      Medium Density, to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
74-1999   6-17-1999   2221, 2227 and 2229 Bath Avenue from R-5 Residential
                      Medium Density to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
75-1999   6-17-1999   3205 13th Street from Residential to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
100-1999  8-19-1999   626 13th Street from R-5 Residential, Medium Density, to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located on
143-1999  12-16-1999  the north side of Central Avenue between 24th and 25th
                      Streets from Central Avenue to the alley from B-2 General
                      Business to I-1 Light Industrial.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
64-2000   5-18-2000   2337 Plum Street from R-5 Residential, Medium Density to
                      B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
127-2000  9-21-2000   512, 514 and 520 23rd Street and 2305, 2309, 2313 and
                      2317 and 2321 Bath Avenue from R-5 Residential, Medium
                      Density, to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing zoning classification of property located at
165-2000  11-16-2000  2400 13th Street from R-6 Residential, Medium Density, to
                      PUD 00-001, Planned Unit Development.
                      Changing zoning classifications of property located at
176-2000  12-21-2000  300 Armco Road from I-1, Light Industrial, to B-2,
                      General Business.
                      Changing zoning classification of property located at
1-2001    1-4-2001    2826 and 2830 Lexington Avenue from R-5, Residential/
                      Medium Density, to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing zoning classification of property located at
24-2001   2-16-2001   2400 13th Street from R-6 Residential, Medium Density, to
                      PUD 00-001, Planned Unit Development, to include Lot No.
                      4 of the Grayson Road Corporation.
                      Changing zoning classification of property located at
35-2001   3-15-2001   1124 Bath Avenue from R-4, Residential/High Density, to
                      B-3, Downtown Business.
                      Changing zoning classification of property located at
53-2001   4-19-2001   4757 Winchester Avenue from R-6, Residential/Medium
                      Density, to B-2, General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
111-2001  8-16-2001   3778 13th Street from R-6, Residential/Medium Density, to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
16-2002   1-17-2002   2317 29th Street from R-5 Residential/Medium Density to
                      B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
52-2002   6-6-2002    2237 Bath Avenue; 511 23rd Street; 512, 520, 604, 606 and
                      608 24th Street; and 2404 Bath Avenue from R-5,
                      Residential/Medium Density, to P-H, Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
87-2002   8-15-2002   3120 Old 13th Street from B-1, Neighborhood Business, to
                      R-4, Residential/High Density.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
106-2002  9-19-2002   516 24th Street from R-5, Residential/Medium Density, to
                      P-H, Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
8-2003    1-14-2003   2840, 2844 and 2848 Hilton Avenue from R-5, Residential/
                      Medium Density, to B-1, Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
22-2003   2-20-2003   3120 Old 13th Street from B-1, Neighborhood Business, to
                      R-4, Residential/High Density.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
                      the southwest corner of the intersection of Oakview Road
87-2003   7-17-2003   and Hickory Ridge Drive from R-6, Residential/Medium
                      Density and R-12, Single-Family Residential/Low Density
                      to PUD, Planned Unit Development.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
128-2003  10-16-2003  3100 Central Avenue from R-5, Residential/Medium Density
                      to B-1, Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of properties located
129-2003  10-16-2003  at 2240, 2244, 2248, 2252, 2256, 2260 and 2264 Central
                      Avenue from R-5, Residential/Medium Density to P-H,
                      Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
130-2003  10-16-2003  2245 Central Avenue from B-2, General Business to P-H,
                      Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
156-2003  12-18-2003  101-121 18th Street from I-1, Light Industrial to B-3,
                      Downtown Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
157-2003  12-18-2003  101 17th Street from I-1, Light Industrial to B-3,
                      Downtown Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
158-2003  12-18-2003  1640 Front Street from I-1, Light Industrial to B-3,
                      Downtown Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
37-2004   3-18-2004   442 22nd Street from B-2, General Business Density to P-
                      H, Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
38-2004   3-18-2004   2224 Bath Avenue from R-5, Residential/Medium Density to
                      P-H, Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
39-2004   3-18-2004   2409 Bath Avenue from R-5, Residential/Medium Density to
                      P-H, Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
40-2004   3-18-2004   2269 Central Avenue from B-2 General Business Density to
                      P-H, Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
81-2004   6-24-2004   1118 Bath Avenue from R-4 Multi-Single-Family
                      Residential/High Density to B-3 Downtown Business.
                      Designating the zoning classification of newly annexed
91-2004   7-1-2004    property located at south side of U.S. 23 as B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
92-2004   7-1-2004    2816 Carter Avenue from R-4 Multi-Single Family
                      Residential/High Density to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
                      2300, 2304, 2308, 2312, 2324, 2328 and 2332 Central
93-2004   7-1-2004    Avenue and 506, 507 and 508 23rd Street from R-5 Multi-
                      Single Family Residential/Medium Density to P-H Public
                      Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
156-2004  11-18-2004  2516 Carter Avenue from I-1 Light Industrial to B-
                      2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
03-2005   1-11-2005   2340, 2400 and 2404 Central Avenue and 507 and 511 24th
                      Street from R-5 Residential to P-H Public Hospital.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
73-2005   5-19-2005   5180 13th Street from I-1 Light Industrial to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
104-2005  7-7-2005    2920, 2924, 2928, 2932 Carter Avenue from R-4 Residential
                      to B-2 General Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
136-2005  9-1-2005    615 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from B-2 General
                      Business to B-3 Downtown Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
77-2006   6-22-2006   5415 Winchester Avenue from R-5 Multi/Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of property located at
106-2006  8-24-2006   5308 Winchester Avenue from R-5 Multi/Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of all properties
                      abutting Hilton Avenue on both sides between Prospect
124-2006  9-7-2006    Avenue and 21st Street from R-5 Multi/Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density to R-6 Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density.
12-2007   2-15-2007   Changing the zoning classification for certain property.
                      Changing the zoning classification of the demarcated
64-2007   6-26-2007   riverfront project area from I-2 Heavy Industrial to B-
                      3 Downtown Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of 2821 Moore Street
53-2009   5-21-2009   from R-6 Single-Family Residential/Medium Density to B-
                      1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Changing the zoning classification of the Providence Hill
54-2009   5-21-2009   Area from R-12 Single-Family Residential/Low Density to
                      R-4 Multi/Single- Family Residential/High Density and B-
                      2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning classification of 2912 Montgomery
117-2010  11-18-2010  Avenue from R-5 Multi/Single- Family Residential/Medium
                      Density and R-12 Single-Family Residential/Low Density to
                      B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Amending the zoning classification of 3655 Winchester
8-2011    1-20-2011   Avenue from I-2 Heavy Industrial Business to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Amending the zoning classification of all properties
104-2011  9-15-2011   located between 8th and 9th streets facing Central Avenue
                      from R-4 Multi/Single-Family Residential/High Density to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning classification of Lots 13 and 14 on
105-2011  9-15-2011   Holt Street from R-6 Single-Family Residential/Medium
                      Density to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Amending the zoning classification of 2704, 2708 and the
116-2011  10-6-2011   next parcel to the east on Carter Avenue from R-4 Multi/
                      Single-Family Residential/High Density to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
7-2012    1-19-2012   classification of 601-1/2 28th Street, 2800 and 2808 Bath
                      Avenue from R-5 Multi/Single-Family Residential/Medium
                      Density to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
31-2013   3-7-2013    classification of 1121 Bath Avenue from R-4 Multi/Single-
                      Family Residential/High Density to B-3 Downtown Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of Lots 2, 3, 4 and part of Lot 5 located
31-2014   3-27-2014   on 6th Street behind the Ashland Town Center Mall from R-
                      12 Single-Family Residential/Low Density to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
52-2014   6-26-2014   classification of 3133 Carter Avenue from R-4 Single-
                      Family Residential/High Density to B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of 3500 Roberts Drive from R-6 Single-
4-2015    12-11-2014  Family Residential/Medium Density and R-12 Single-Family
                      Residential/Low Density to R-5 Multi/Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
13-2017   1-26-2017   classification of 622 and 624 13th Street from R-5 Multi/
                      Single-Family Residential/Medium Density to B-2 General
                      Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
41-2017   5-11-2017   classification of 2411, 2413 and 2415 Greenup Avenue from
                      I-1 Light Industrial to B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
44-2017   6-8-2017    classification of 2235 Barton Court from R-5 Multi/
                      Single-Family Residential/Medium Density to B-
                      1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
78-2018   5-10-2018   classification of 360, 361, 364, 369, and 370 Blackburn
                      Avenue from R-5 Multi/Single-Family Residential/Medium
                      Density to B-1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
88-2018   6-14-2018   classification of 542 Blackburn Avenue from R-5 Multi/
                      Single-Family Residential/Medium Density to B-
                      1 Neighborhood Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
128-2018  8-23-2018   classification for Lots 1, 2 and 3 of Block 1 at 4900
                      Winchester Avenue (U.S. 23) from R-5 Multi/Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density to B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of Lot 3 of the Prospect Place Subdivision
132, 2019 9-26-2019   located on Oakview Road across from the Ashland Tennis
                      Center from B-2 General Business to R-5 Multi/Single-
                      Family Residential/Medium Density.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of 1112 and 1116 Central Avenue, the
160, 2019 12-13-2019  vacant lot formerly known as 1120, 1124, and 1128 Central
                      Avenue and 503 and 509 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard
                      from R-4 Multi/Single-Family Residential/High Density to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of all properties along both sides of 29th
11, 2020  1-24-2020   Street from Montgomery Avenue to 1013 29th Street and
                      properties along Belmont Street from the 29th Street/
                      Belmont Street split to Simpson Road from B-
                      1 Neighborhood Business to B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
20, 2021  3-25-2021   classification of property located at 1116 Bath Avenue
                      from R-4 Multi/Single-Family Residential/High Density to
                      B-2 General Business.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of property located at 751 Hunt Street and
                      surrounding vacant eight acres; 795, 797, 799, 801, and
56, 2023  4-28-2023   803 Hunt Street; 800, 804, 808, 810 and 814 Hunt Street,
                      805, 807, 809, 811 and 813 Hunt Street; and 815, 817,
                      819, 821 and 823 Hunt Street from R-6 Single-Family
                      Residential/Medium Density to R-5 Multi/Single- Family
                      Residential/Medium Density.
                      Amending the zoning map by changing the zoning
                      classification of property located at 2701 Carter Avenue
114, 2023 8-24-2023   and the four adjacent lots along 27th Street from Carter
                      Avenue to the alley from R-4 Multi/Single-Family
                      Residential/High Density to B-2 General Business.
                     
 
 
TABLE XVII: REPEALED ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Repealed by Ord.
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description                              Repealed by Ord.
-         - -         One-way streets.                         37, 2005
-         12-6-1932   Passing of handbills.                    112, 2023
15-1943   4-13-1943   Relating to trespassing upon gardens or  60-2000
                      orchards.
6-1945    2-13-1945   Relating to taxicab fares.               48-2000
17-1948   - -         Civil Service Commission.                6-2012
30-1948   7-27-1948   Establishing provisions for taxicab      37-2000
                      licenses and rate of payment.
                      Establishing provisions for licensing
31-1948   8-10-1948   and fees for operating coin vending      38-2000
                      machines.
52-1950   7-11-1950   Amending taxicab licensing provisions.   37-2000
43-1953   11-24-1953  Civil Service Commission.                6-2012
11-1956   - -         Prohibiting minors from licensed pinball 9-1997
                      machines.
89-1958   12-1-1958   Amending coin vending machines licensing 38-2000
                      provisions.
12-1959   3-23-1959   Regarding licensing provisions.          148-2003
24-1960   6-28-1960   Providing for the rules and regulations  118-2000
                      for the use of city parks.
56-1960   10-29-1960  Regarding licensing provisions.          148-2003
63-1960   11-22-1960  Imposing street usage fee on motor       40-2000
                      vehicles.
17-1961   3-28-1961   Regarding licensing provisions.          148-2003
8-1962    - -         Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
11-1962   - -         Regulating parking.                      43-2011
19-1962   - -1962     Regulating parking.                      43-2011
53-1962   8-13-1962   Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
45-1963   - -         Governing operation of restaurants.      10-1997
46-1963   10-28-1963  Establishing provisions regarding budget 39-2000
                      service companies.
13-1964   4-13-1964   Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
33-1964   - -         Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
2-1966    1-10-1966   Reporting sale of firearms.              17-2011
18-1966   5-9-1966    Prohibiting licensing and operation of   30-1995
                      public pool rooms.
6-1969    2-4-1969    Creating and fixing fire limits within   24-2000
                      the city.
16-1969   6-23-1969   Establishing sewer rates and charges.    80-1995
33-1970   - -         Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
17-1971   5-10-1971   Regarding licensing provisions.          148-2003
25-1972   6-6-1972    Relating to taxicab fares.               48-2000
32-1973   - -         Establishing Ashland City-School         109-1996
                      Recreation Board.
42-1973   - -1973     Compensating police personnel for court  49-1997
                      appearances.
9-1974    - -         Establishing Ashland auxiliary police.   - -
3-1976    1-15-1976   Establishing position of parking         141-1999
                      violations attendant.
6-1976    1-20-1976   Regarding garbage collection vehicles.   68-2015
16-1976   2-19-1976   Regarding garbage collection vehicles.   68-2015
26-1976   4-1-1976    Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
23-1977   4-21-1977   Parks regulations.                       36-2011
69-1977   10-18-1977  The land use plan adopted by reference.  111-2004
13-1978   3-16-1978   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
44-1978   7-6-1978    Establishing building requirements.      47-1997
45-1978   7-6-1978    Establishing one-way streets.            16-2000
71-1978   10-19-1978  Declaring junked vehicles on private or  121-1994
                      public property a nuisance.
45-1979   11-15-1979  Establishing city s Commission of Human  46-1997
                      Rights.
46-1979   11-15-1979  Establishing fair housing provisions.    29-2013
52-1979   12-6-1979   Adopting procurement regulations.        126, 2022
10-1980   2-7-1980    Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
11-1980   2-7-1980    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
12-1980   2-7-1980    Amending the closing times for city      118-2000
                      parks.
23-1980   3-6-1980    Providing for a school bus stop on 16th  169-1997
                      Street.
                      Authorizing installation of a flashing
26-1980   3-20-1980   traffic signal at 29th Street and Carter 142-1999
                      Avenue.
28-1980   3-20-1980   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
43-1980   5-1-1980    Amending provision for position of       141-1999
                      parking violations attendant.
48-1980   5-29-1980   Establishing sewer rates and charges.    80-1995
55-1980   6-19-1980   Regarding garbage disposal regulations   82-2005
57-1980   6-13-1980   Regarding licensing provisions.          148-2003
60-1980   6-19-1980   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
83-1980   8-21-1980   Relating to taxicab fares.               48-2000
104-1980  10-16-1980  Amending procurement regulations.        126, 2022
8-1981    1-22-1981   Regulating sale of alcoholic beverages.  1-1998
14-1981   3-3-1981    Providing for a school bus stop on High  97-1996
                      Street.
27-1981   4-7-1981    Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
36-1981   4-21-1981   Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
37-1981   4-21-1981   Reserving parking for official city      61-1997
                      vehicles.
44-1981   5-5-1981    Regulating garage sales.                 68-1995
58-1981   6-2-1981    Establishing rules and regulations for   81-2006
                      the Police Department.
60-1981   - -1981     Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
83-1981   9-1-1981    Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
89-1981   9-15-1981   One-way street regulations.              37-2011
106-1981  11-4-1981   One-way streets.                         37, 2005
109-1981  11-17-1981  Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
25-1982   5-16-1982   Establishing Ashland Tourist and         112, 2019
                      Convention Commission.
52-1982   6-17-1982   Amending regulations for sale of         143-2003
                      alcoholic beverages.
27-1982   5-7-1982    Abating unreasonable and unnecessary     174-2000
                      noise.
32-1982   5-20-1982   Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
54-1982   7-1-1982    Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
66-1982   7-15-1982   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
67-1982   7-15-1982   Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
72-1982   8-5-1982    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
95-1982   10-7-1982   Amending rules and regulations for the   81-2006
                      Police Department.
103-1982  11-4-1982   Declaring junked vehicles on private or  121-1994
                      public property a nuisance.
1-1983    - -         Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
6-1983    1-6-1983    Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
33-1983   2-17-1983   Establishing building requirements.      47-1997
36-1983   3-3-1983    Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
79-1983   6-2-1983    One-way streets.                         TSO XVII
131-1983  9-29-1983   Parks regulations.                       36-2011
134-1983  - -         Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
144-1983  10-20-1983  Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
149-1983  11-3-1983   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
14-1984   2-23-1984   Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
24-1984   4-3-1984    Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
27-1984   4-17-1984   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
56-1984   7-19-1984   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
59-1984   - -         Establishing sewer rates and charges.    80-1995
70-1984   6-28-1984   Imposing a transient room tax.           8-1997
89-1984   8-24-1984   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
116-1984  11-7-1984   One-way streets.                         37, 2005
117-1984  - -         Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
120-1984  11-7-1984   Prohibiting parking in 100 block of 17th 65-1999
                      Street.
121-1984  11-19-1984  Establishing sewer rates and charges.    80-1995
136-1984  11-27-1984  Establishing a sidewalk replacement      96-2002
                      program.
143-1984  12-18-1984  Establishing license fees on insurance   97-1995
                      companies.
154-1984  12-26-1984  Establishing garbage collection and      81-1995
                      disposal services.
155-1984  12-26-1984  Parking regulation - two-hour limit.     52-2016
21-1985   3-19-1985   Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
34-1985   4-16-1985   Consent agenda for matters recommended   118-2015
                      by City Manager.
39-1985   4- -1985    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city
49-1985   5-13-1985   Parks regulations.                       36-2011
61-1985   6-4-1985    Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
63-1985   6-4-1985    Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
84-1985   - -         Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
87-1985   7-16-1985   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
89-1985   7-16-1985   Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
100-1985  8-9-1985    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
101-1985  8-9-1985    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
126-1985  11-6-1985   Establishing procedures governing city   161-1997
                      processing.
9-1986    2-4-1986    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
10-1986   2-4-1986    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
40-1986   6-3-1986    Amending parking meter zones schedule.   84-2013
48-1986   6-17-1986   Prohibiting alcoholic beverages in city  118-2000
                      parks.
56-1986   6-18-1986   Amending parking meter zones schedule.   84-2013
72-1986   - -         Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Amending Ord. 42-1973 regarding payment
84-1986   9-2-1986    of police officers for court             49-1997
                      appearances.
85-1986   9-2-1986    Parks regulations.                       36-2011
95-1986   9-9-1986    Fireworks regulations.                   34-2015
96-1986   9-16-1986   Amending regulations for sale of         1-1998
                      alcoholic beverages.
97-1986   9-16-1986   Declaring junked vehicles on private or  121-1994
                      public property a nuisance.
101-1986, 10-7-1986   Adopting sign regulations.               56-1998
Art. VII
1-1987    - -1987     Soliciting on streets                    78-2010
14-1987   1-20-1987   Establishing requirements for building   47-1997
                      and demolition permits.
20-1987   2-17-1987   Establishing a loading zone on the wet   50-2003
                      side of 16th Street.
117-1987  10-21-1987  Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
119-1987  10-21-1987  Establishing Tree Board.                 27-1999
143-1987  12-16-1987  Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
145-1987  12-16-1987  Establishing water rates and charges.    79-1995
146-1987  12-16-1987  Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
147-1987  12-16-1987  Amending sewer fees.                     81-2005
41-1988   5-10-1988   Providing for the rules and regulations  118-2000
                      for the use of Central Park.
50-1988   6-7-1988    One-way streets.                         37, 2005
56-1988   6-14-1988   Amending the prohibition of certain      118-2000
                      trucks in Central Park.
63-1988   7-19-1988   - -                                      - -
71-1988   8-2-1988    Adopting sign regulations.               56-1998
72-1988   8-2-1988    Declaring junked vehicles on private or  121-1994
                      public property a nuisance.
75-1988   8-2-1988    Authorizing contract with Otis Elevator Company.
82-1988   8-16-1988   Amending water rates.                    80-2005
84-1988   8-16-1988   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
85-1988   8-16-1988   Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
86-1988   9-26-1988   Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
100-1988  9-12-1988   Providing for installation of stop       169-1995
                      signs.
                      Establishing speed limits within the
128-1988  11-15-1988  city and providing a penalty for the     49-2006
                      violation thereof.
142-1988  12-6-1988   Regarding potable water.                 143-2005
166-1988  12-22-1988  - -                                      - -
19-1989   8-15-1989   Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
38-1989   4-4-1989    Amending regulations for sale of         143-2003
                      alcoholic beverages.
40-1989   4-4-1989    Establishing water rates and charges.    79-1995
42-1989   4-4-1989    Regarding potable water.                 143-2005
45-1989   4-4-1989    Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
90-1989   8-15-1989   Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
96-1989   9-19-1989   Amending sewer rates.                    81-2005
98-1989   9-18-1989   Amending sewer rates.                    81-2005
110-1989  10-17-1989  Regulating parking.                      52-2016
113-1989  10-17-1989  Crosswalks.                              214, 2024
136-1989  12-5-1989   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
7-1990    2-20-1990   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
11-1990   - -         Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
19-1990   3-20-1990   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
42-1990   5-15-1990   Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
47-1990   6-5-1990    Parks regulations.                       36-2011
55-1990   6-14-1990   Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
62-1990   6-29-1990   Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
68-1990   7-17-1990   Amending fair housing provisions.        29-2013
75-1990   8-7-1990    Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
82-1990   8-7-1990    Establishing requirements for building   47-1997
                      and demolition permits.
91-1990   8-15-1990   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
                      Authorizing interlocal cooperation
                      agreement relating to participation in
113-1990  10-2-1990   the Regional Public Safety Communication 99-1997
                      Center between the Cities of Ashland,
                      Bellefonte and Russell.
115-1990  10-2-1990   Relating to parking meters.              90-2000
116-1990  10-2-1990   Relating to parking duration.            110-2007
138-1990  11-12-1990  Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
140-1990  11-12-1990  Changing the name of 16th Street Plaza   122, 2020
                      to Judd Plaza.
152-1990  12-18-1990  Regulating time-limited parking.         52-2016
153-1990  12-18-1990  Amending sewer rates.                    81-2005
154-1990  12-18-1990  Establishing water rates and charges.    79-1995
2-1991    1-3-1991    Adopting standards of safety.            150-1997
5-1991    1-8-1991    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
10-1991   2-5-1991    Regulating time-limited parking.         52-2016
17-1991   2-19-1991   Governing police regulations.            91-1995
18-1991   2-26-1991   Regulating time-limited parking.         52-2016
25-1991   3-22-1991   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
41-1991   5-21-1991   Establishing water rates and charges.    79-1995
42-1991   5-21-1991   Regarding garbage disposal regulations.  82-2005
44-1991   5-21-1991   Amending the closing times for city      118-2000
                      parks.
55-1991   6-4-1991    Prohibiting licensing and operation of   30-1995
                      public pool rooms.
87-1991   7-23-1991   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
88-1991   7-23-1991   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
99-1991   9-17-1991   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
110-1991  10-15-1991  Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
133-1991  12-17-1991  Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
16-1992   2-18-1992   Amending Tree Board provisions.          27-1999
21-1992   2-28-1992   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
                      Requiring future city employees to
25-1992   3-3-1992    establish residence within the city      25-2000
                      limits during probationary period of
                      employment.
31-1992   4-7-1992    Establishing water rates and charges.    79-1995
32-1992   4-7-1992    Amending sewer fees.                     81-2005
33-1992   4-7-1992    Restricting parking on certain streets.  78-1997
34-1992   4-7-1992    Regulating time-restricted parking.      52-2016
70-1992   6-8-1992    Authorizing interlocal cooperation       1-1995
                      agreement for operation of FIVCO.
75-1992   6-16-1992   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
87-1992   7-7-1992    Procurement regulations.                 61-2019
95-1992   7-21-1992   Restricting animals within the city.     105-2000
96-1992   7-21-1992   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
115-1992  8-27-1992   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
138-1992  10-27-1992  Restricting parking on certain streets.  78-1997
154-1992  12-15-1992  Restricting bicycles on certain streets. 118-2000
159-1992  12-16-1992  Authorizing interlocal cooperation       1-1995
                      agreement for operation of FIVCO.
61-1993   6-3-1993    Adopting sewer provisions.               62-2012
                      Adopting city assisted housing agency
84-1993   8-17-1993   administrative plan for Section 8        3-1997
                      Certificate and housing voucher
                      programs.
86-1993   6-3-1993    Amending pollution discharge limits for  62-2012
                      sewer system.
                      Establishing regulations and
95-1993   9-2-1993    qualifications relating to recruitment   91-1995
                      of police officers.
102-1993  10-7-1993   Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
107-1993  10-7-1993   Amending sewer fees.                     81-2005
                      Amending personnel policies and
113-1993  10-21-1993  procedures; regulations for promotions   77-2003, 84-2012
                      within the Fire Department.
114-1993  10-21-1993  Establishing regulations for hiring      98-1998
                      within Fire Department.
116-1993  10-21-1993  Creating occupational license fees.      20-1999
11-1994   - -         Regulating garage sales.                 68-1995
136-1993  12-2-1993   Adopting flood damage prevention plan.   180-2004
14-1994   1-20-1994   Adopting the economic development fund.  159-2003
33-1994   2-17-1994   Amending one-way streets.                50-2000
44-1994   3-17-1994   Amending the city sidewalk replacement   95-2002
                      and construction policy.
45-1994   4-7-1994    Adopting state and national codes.       111-1997
46-1994   4-7-1994    Amending regulations for hiring within   98-1998
                      Fire Department.
                      Authorizing loan agreements, notes and
50-1994   4-21-1994   guarantee agreements on loans from funds 159-2003
                      of the city economic development
                      revolving loan fund.
60-1994   5-5-1994    Establishing requirements for building   47-1997
                      and demolition permits.
80-1994   6-2-1994    Regulating time-limited parking.         52-2016
91-1994   6-28-1994   Adopting Property Maintenance Code.      132-1996
92-1994   6-28-1994   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Closing a 15-foot alley right-of-way
99-1994   7-21-1994   east of and between 1908-1912 Prospect   36-2000
                      Avenue.
110-1994  8-18-1994   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
125-1994  9-15-1994   Amending rules and regulations for the   81-2006
                      Police Department.
                      Regarding the rules, regulations and
129-1994  10-6-1994   fees of the activity room located in     52-2006
                      Central Park.
154-1994  11-17-1994  Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
2-1995    1-5-1995    Amending commercial loading zones.       108-2011
3-1995    1-19-1995   Adopting sign regulations.               56-1998
14-1995   2-2-1995    Amending provisions regarding use of     62-2012
                      public sewer.
28-1995   3-2-1995    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
29-1995   3-2-1995    Regarding personnel policies and         61-2019
                      procedures.
36-1995   3-20-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
41-1995   4-20-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
48-1995   5-4-1995    Amending Ord. 33-1992 restricting        78-1997
                      parking on certain streets.
63-1995   6-1-1995    Amending flood damage prevention plan.   180-2004
69-1995   6-5-1995    Amending Ord. 44-1978 regarding building 47-1997
                      permit fees.
70-1995   6-5-1995    Amending Ord. 91-1994 regarding the      132-1996
                      Property Maintenance Code.
72-1995   6-15-1995   Fixing the regulatory license fee from   143-2003
                      the sale of alcoholic beverages.
76-1995   6-26-1995   Amending the Assisted Housing Agency     3-1997
                      Administrative Plan.
77-1995   6-26-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Establishing water rates, tap fees,
79-1995   6-26-1995   installation charges service charges and 80-2005
                      penalties.
                      Establishing sewer rates, tap fees,
80-1995   6-26-1995   installation charges, service charges,   81-2005
                      industrial pretreatment charges and
                      penalties.
                      Repealing Ord. 154-1984 and all
81-1995   6-26-1995   amendments and providing for the         82-2005
                      regulation of garbage, rubbish and waste
                      materials.
83-1995   6-28-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
84-1995   6-28-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
85-1995   6-28-1995   Amending the salary schedule.            105-1997
90-1995   7-20-1995   Handicapped parking space at 2276        50-2012
                      Winchester Avenue.
91-1995   7-20-1995   Establishing a comprehensive hiring      131-1999
                      ordinance for police officers.
97-1995   8-3-1995    Imposing license fees on insurance       35-1998
                      companies.
104-1995  8-17-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
116-1995  9-21-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
125-1995  10-5-1995   Amending the imposition of license fees  35-1998
                      on insurance companies.
129-1995  10-5-1995   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Establishing procedures for the use of
134-1995  10-19-1995  streets, rights-of-way or facilities for 157, 2020
                      street events.
137-1995  11-2-1995   Authorizing contract with Otis Elevator  8-1996
                      Company.
                      Authorizing agreement with City of
149-1995  11-16-1995  Flatwoods to furnish potable water for   14-1996
                      distribution and sale.
161-1995  12-11-1995  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
168-1995  12-21-1995  Adopting revised drug and alcohol        15-1998
                      policy.
5-1996    1-4-1996    Establishing a street sweeping schedule. 52-1996
                      Authorizing an agreement with the City
14-1996   2-1-1996    of Flatwoods for Ashland s furnishing of 160-2005
                      potable water.
                      Amending water rates, tap fees,
18-1996   2-15-1996   installation charges and service         80-2005
                      charges.
                      Amending sewer rates, tap fees,
19-1996   2-15-1996   installation charges, services charges,  81-2005
                      industrial pretreatment charges.
20-1996   3-7-1996    Amending regulations regarding garbage   82-2005
                      and rubbish disposal.
36-1996   4-18-1996   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
38-1996   4-18-1996   Amending Ord. 33-1992 restricting        78-1997
                      parking on certain streets.
39-1996   4-18-1996   Amending Ord. 155-1984 and establishing  52-2016
                      two hour parking limits.
64-1996   6-25-1996   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
67-1996   6-25-1996   Amending rules and regulations regarding 62-2012
                      use of the sewer system.
69-1996   6-29-1996   Fixing the regulatory license fee from   143-2003
                      the sale of alcoholic beverages.
                      Authorizing agreement with Janice Lewis
84-1996   8-1-1996    regarding placement of a chain link      121-1996
                      fence at 1915 Belmont Street on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Adopting the revised economic
86-1996   8-1-1996    development loan program operating       159-2003
                      manual.
87-1996   8-1-1996    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
92-1996   8-16-1996   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
93-1996   8-16-1996   Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
102-1996  10-3-1996   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
106-1996  10-17-1996  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
107-1996  10-17-1996  Adopting a bloodborne pathogens exposure 77-2003
                      control plan.
                      Amending water rates, tap fees,
117-1996  11-21-1996  installation charges and service         80-2005
                      charges.
128-1996  12-5-1996   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
132-1996  12-19-1996  Property Maintenance Code.               106-2009
3-1997    1-2-1997    Adopting Section 8 administrative plan.  17-2000
8-1997    2-6-1997    Imposing a transient room tax.           112, 2019
19-1997   2-20-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
20-1997   2-20-1997   Prohibiting parking between 3129 and     100-1997
                      3145 Powell Street.
21-1997   2-20-1997   Designating a handicap parking space at  119, 2019
                      1600 Greenup Avenue.
31-1997   3-20-1997   Regulating certain activities within     118-2000
                      Central Park.
                      Prohibiting sales from temporary
34-1997   3-20-1997   structures located on private or public  58-1999
                      property.
41-1997   4-3-1997    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
46-1997   4-17-1997   Making changes regarding the Human       112-1999
                      Rights Commission.
47-1997   4-17-1997   Requirements for building and demolition 73-2008
                      permits and fees.
48-1997   4-17-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
56-1997   5-1-1997    Designating a 15-minute parking space at 103-1997
                      1613 Winchester Avenue.
57-1997   5-1-1997    Establishing a Safety Committee.         77-2003
61-1997   5-15-1997   Providing parking on Market Street.      96-1998
62-1997   5-15-1997   Amending Section 8 administrative plan.  17-2000
63-1997   5-15-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Prohibiting parking on north side of
75-1997   6-12-1997   27th Street from Lexington Avenue to     102-1997
                      Montgomery Avenue.
                      Prohibiting parking on north side of
76-1997   6-12-1997   Ferry Street from 6th Street to Pollard  101-1997
                      Road.
77-1997   6-12-1997   Designating two 15-minute parking spaces 104-1997
                      at 2333 Winchester Avenue.
                      Amending Ord. 79-1995 regarding water
82-1997   6-19-1997   rates, tap fees, installation charges,   80-2005
                      service charges.
                      Amending Ord. 80-1995 regarding sewer
83-1997   6-19-1997   rates, tap fees, installation charges,   81-2005
                      service charges, industrial pretreatment
                      charges, penalties and interest.
86-1997   6-26-1997   Fixing the license fee from the sale of  143-2003
                      alcoholic beverages.
87-1997   6-26-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
89-1997   6-26-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
104-1997  7-17-1997   Designating two 15-minute parking spaces 49-2000
                      in 2300 block of Winchester Avenue.
105-1997  7-17-1997   Amending salary schedule.                67-1998
109-1997  8-7-1997    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
110-1997  8-7-1997    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
111-1997  8-7-1997    Adopting state and national codes.       15-2002
                      Providing for a one-time amnesty period
119-1997  8-21-1997   for filing delinquent net profits        ; 148-2003
                      license fee returns.
122-1997  9-4-1997    Authorizing agreement with Ralph Beadle  42-1999
                      for sidewalk replacement.
123-1997  9-4-1997    Amending one-way streets.                16-2000
130-1997  9-18-1997   Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city
132-1997  10-2-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
141-1997  10-16-1997  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
149-1997  11-6-1997   Authorizing agreement with Wendy s       43-1999
                      International for sidewalk replacement.
150-1997  11-6-1997   Establishing fire prevention standards.  101-1999
151-1997  11-6-1997   Regarding the Uniform Fire Code.         66-2007
152-1997  11-6-1997   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
156-1997  11-20-1997  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
1-1998    1-6-1998    Regulating sale of alcoholic beverages.  78-1998
                      Authorizing agreement with Bill Dudding
3-1998    1-6-1998    for installation of a water line         44-1999
                      extension.
15-1998   2-15-1998   Adopting revised drug and alcohol        154-2000
                      policy.
25-1998   3-5-1998    Amending sale of alcoholic beverages.    78-1998
33-1998   3-19-1998   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
35-1998   3-19-1998   Imposing license fees on insurance       21-1999
                      companies.
52-1998   - -         Authorizing contract for removal and     57-1998
                      disposal of sludge.
53-1998   5-20-1998   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
56-1998   6-18-1998   Sign regulations.                        21-2012
58-1998   6-18-1998   Fixing the license fee from the sale of  143-2003
                      alcoholic beverages.
62-1998   6-23-1998   Authorizing the borrowing of funds for   74-1998
                      operational expenses.
67-1998   6-23-1998   Amending salary schedule.                84-2001
72-1998   8-6-1998    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
75-1998   8-20-1998   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Repealing Ord. 1-1998 and creating the
78-1998   9-3-1998    regulations for the sale of alcoholic    143-2003
                      beverages.
96-1998   10-15-1998  Rules and regulations for city-owned     122-2004
                      parking lots.
97-1998   10-15-1998  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
98-1998   10-15-1998  Establishing hiring regulations for Fire 134-1999
                      Department.
100-1998  11-5-1998   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
106-1998  11-19-1998  Designating two 15-minute parking spaces 4-2003
                      at 1539 Winchester Avenue.
109-1998  11-19-1998  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
114-1998  12-3-1998   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
20-1999   3-18-1999   Creating occupational license fees.      58-1999
32-1999   4-1-1999    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
58-1999   5-20-1999   Creating occupational license fees.      110-2001
59-1999   5-20-1999   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Amending Sections 7, 35, 38 Ord. 78-
66-1999   6-3-1999    1998, regulation of alcoholic beverages  143-2003
                      in limited sale precincts.
69-1999   6-17-1999   Amending closing times of city parks.    118-2000
78-1999   6-24-1999   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Fixing regulatory license fees at 3.5 of
79-1999   6-24-1999   gross receipts from sale of alcoholic    143-2003
                      beverages during fiscal year 7-1-1999
                      through 6-30-2000.
80-1999   7-1-1999    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
83-1999   7-15-1999   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
84-1999   7-15-1999   Closing a portion of an alley off of     02-2005
                      Hunt Street.
101-1999  8-19-1999   Regarding the National Fire Code.        67-2007
113-1999  10-7-1999   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
131-1999  11-18-1999  Establishing a comprehensive hiring      152-2000
                      ordinance for police officers.
132-1999  11-18-1999  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Repealing Ord. 98-1998 and establishing
134-1999  12-2-1999   procedural regulations and prerequisite  140-2003
                      qualifications for hiring within the
                      Fire Department.
                      Authorizing agreement with Roy Scudder
135-1999  12-16-1999  for use of the right-of-way at 4023      23-2000
                      Skidmore Street.
140-1999  12-16-1999  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
9-2000    2-3-2000    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
10-2000   2-3-2000    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
16-2000   2-17-2000   Amending one-way streets, repealing Ord. 137-2000
                      45-1978.
18-2000   3-2-2000    Authorizing acceptance of a portion of a 87-2005
                      tract of land on 10th Street.
                      Authorizing execution of a deed of
19-2000   3-2-2000    conveyance with United Ashland           86-2005
                      Ministries, Inc. for certain real
                      estate.
35-2000   4-6-2000    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
50-2000   4-20-2000   Amending one-way streets, repealing Ord. 137-2000
                      33-1994.
51-2000   4-20-2000   Designating quiet zones.                 163-2007
                      Authorizing execution of agreement with
54-2000   5-4-2000    Steven L. Mason for use of a right-of-   107-2000
                      way at 2501 Cumberland Avenue.
59-2000   5-4-2000    Amending personnel policies and          77-2003
                      procedures.
63-2000   5-18-2000   Amending Ord. 106-1998 regarding 15      4-2003
                      minute parking.
                      Amending Ord. 79-1995 regarding water
69-2000   6-1-2000    rates, tap fees, installation and        80-2005
                      service charges.
                      Amending Ord. 80-1995 regarding sewer
70-2000   6-1-2000    rates, tap fees, installation and        81-2005
                      service charges.
71-2000   6-1-2000    Amending Ord. 81-1995 regarding garbage  82-2005
                      disposal.
73-2000   6-1-2000    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
76-2000   6-15-2000   Fixing the regulatory license fee on     143-2003
                      sale of alcoholic beverages.
79-2000   6-15-2000   Regarding commercial loading zones.      108-2011
80-2000   6-15-2000   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
84-2000   6-20-2000   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
90-2000   7-20-2000   Relating to parking meters.              140-2000
91-2000   7-20-2000   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
105-2000  8-17-2000   Regarding regulations on dogs.           194, 2021
                      Authorizing execution of a memorandum of
109-2000  8-24-2000   understanding with the Finance and       170-2000
                      Administration Cabinet and the Paramount
                      Arts Center.
116-2000  8-24-2000   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
118-2000  9-7-2000    Amending the rules and regulations of    36-2011
                      the city parks.
126-2000  9-21-2000   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Designating certain streets as one-way
137-2000  9-26-2000   and repealing Ords. 16-2000 and Ord. 50- 37, 2025
                      2000.
140-2000  10-19-2000  Regulating traffic.                      52-2016
152-2000  11-2-2000   Establishing a comprehensive hiring      23-2002
                      ordinance for police officers.
153-2000  11-2-2000   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
154-2000  11-2-2000   Repealing Ord. 15-1998 and adopting      77-2003
                      revised drug and alcohol policy.
                      Regarding an encroachment for the
158-2000  11-16-2000  installation of signs and replacement of 177, 2024
                      existing signs for UK King s Daughters.
43-2001   4-5-2001    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
54-2001   4-26-2001   Guidelines and procedures for financial  60-2018
                      or in-kind contributions by the city.
60-2001   5-3-2001    Authorizing a deed of correction with    117-2001
                      Leif E. Clarke.
                      Providing for the orderly succession of
66-2001   5-17-2001   the office of Mayor in the event of a    28-2003
                      national or state emergency.
70-2001   6-7-2001    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
81-2001   6-21-2001   Fixing the regulatory license fee from   143-2003
                      the sale of alcoholic beverages.
82-2001   6-21-2001   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
84-2001   6-21-2001   Amending the salary schedule and         77-2003
                      repealing Ord. 67-1998.
96-2001   6-28-2001   Amending rules and regulations for city  36-2011
                      parks.
97-2001   6-28-2001   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Amending the city s medical care plan,
101-2001  7-5-2001    plan document and summary plan           35-2002
                      description.
107-2001  8-2-2001    Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
108-2001  8-2-2001    Amending rules and regulations of city   36-2011
                      parks.
110-2001  8-16-2001   Creating occupational license fees.      148-2003
124-2001  9-20-2001   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
163-2001  12-20-2001  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
                      Authorizing execution of a contract with
1-2002    1-3-2002    Light s Enterprises, Inc. regarding the  34-2002
                      demolition of property at 3028 Carter
                      Avenue.
15-2002   1-17-2002   Adopting certain state and national      64-2003
                      codes.
23-2002   2-21-2002   Establishing a comprehensive hiring      106-2003
                      ordinance for police officers.
24-2002   2-21-2002   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
48-2002   8-15-2002   Amending the city sidewalk replacement   95-2002
                      and construction policy.
69-2002   7-2-2002    Granting a franchise to Kentucky Power   84-2011
                      Company.
93-2002   8-15-2002   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
95-2002   8-15-2002   Adopting sidewalk replacement and        48-2015
                      construction policies.
                      Regarding the leasing of parking spaces
100-2002  9-19-2002   north of the floodwall and west of the   47-2003
                      depot property.
107-2002  9-19-2002   Amending pollutant discharge limits.     62-2012
116-2002  10-2-2002   Amending fee exceptions for elderly or   82-2005
                      handicapped persons.
117-2002  10-2-2002   Amending water rates.                    80-2005
118-2002  10-2-2002   Regarding personnel policies and         61-2019
                      procedures.
130-2002  11-7-2002   Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
140-2002  11-21-2002  Regarding personnel policies and         77-2003
                      procedures.
142-2002  11-21-2002  Creating a Code Enforcement Board.       70-2003
149-2002  12-19-2002  Amending water rates.                    80-2005
14-2003   2-20-2003   Authorizing contract with General        38-2003
                      Chemical Corp.
21-2003   2-20-2003   Amending two-hour parking limits.        52-2016
                      Repealing Ord. 66-2001 and providing for
28-2003   3-6-2003    the orderly succession of the office of  38-2006
                      Mayor in the event of a national or
                      state emergency.
64-2003   6-5-2003    Adopting certain state and national      141-2007
                      codes.
                      Making required changes in the ordinance
70-2003   6-19-2003   which created a Code Enforcement Board,  48-2006
                      thereby repealing Ord. 142-2002.
71-2003   6-19-2003   Creating an Historic Preservation        37-2017
                      Authority.
                      Authorizing the submission of the 2003
75-2003   6-20-2003   action plan for a community development  89-2003
                      block grant.
77-2003   6-20-2003   Regarding the policies and procedures,   91-2011
                      compensation and classification plans.
106-2003  8-21-2003   Establishing a comprehensive hiring      130-2005
                      ordinance for police officers.
140-2003  11-20-2003  Hiring regulations for the Fire          132-2006
                      Department.
143-2003  11-20-2003  Alcoholic beverage regulations.          110-2013
144-2003  11-20-2003  Adopting the Ashland, Boyd County and    74-2014
                      Catlettsburg emergency operations plan.
148-2003  12-4-2003   Occupational license fee.                51, 2021
72-2004   6-3-2004    Creation of limousine parking area at    51-2006
                      1441 Winchester Avenue.
                      Establishing the procedures for the use
75-2004   6-3-2004    of city streets, rights-of-way or        109-2007
                      facilities for street events.
79-2004   6-24-2004   Amending rules and regulations for use   36-2011
                      of Central Park and other parks.
84-2004   6-28-2004   Occupational license fee.                148-2003
95-2004   7-1-2004    Designating loading/unloading zones      55-2009
                      within the city.
111-2004  7-27-2004   Adopting by reference the comprehensive  103-2013
                      plan.
123-2004  8-5-2004    Alcoholic beverage service training      110-2013
                      program.
142-2004  11-4-2004   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an      21-2007
                      interlocal agreement.
147-2004  11-4-2004   Amending one-way streets.                37, 2025
                      Removing 15th and 18th Streets from
                      being designated as one-way (repealing
155-2004  11-18-2004  part of Ord. 137-2000).Removing 15th and 37, 2025
                      18th Streets from being designated as
                      one-way (repealing part of Ord. 137-
                      2000).
175-2004  12-21-2004  Advertisement and sale of franchise for  55-2005
                      telephone communication system.
176-2004  12-21-2004  Advertisement and sale of franchise for  54-2005
                      gas distribution.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to submit a grant
47-2005   4-7-2005    application to the U.S. Department of    63-2005
                      Housing and Urban Development.
60-2005   5-5-2005    Authorizing an agreement for the Melody  121-2005
                      Mountain project phase II.
                      Adopting a five-year plan for the
77-2005   6-1-2005    Department of Planning and Community     150-2005
                      Development.
                      Establishing water rates, tap fees,
80-2005   6-1-2005    installation charges, service charges,   32-2018
                      penalties and interest.
                      Amending sewer rates, fees, charges,
81-2005   6-1-2005    industrial pretreatment charges and      52-2009
                      penalties.
                      Providing for the gathering, disposal,
82-2005   6-1-2005    and destruction of garbage, rubbish and  68-2015
                      related waste materials.
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a
109-2005  8-18-2005   contract between the city and Municipal  139-2005
                      Equipment, Inc. for the lease purchase
                      of wheeled refuse containers.
121-2005  8-18-2005   Authorizing an agreement for the Melody  71-2007
                      Mountain project phase II.
                      Repealing Ord. 106-2003 and establishing
130-2005  9-1-2005    regulations for comprehensive hiring of  157-2006
                      police officers.
                      Prohibiting smoking inside the fenced
137-2005  9-1-2005    area of the toddlers playground located  36-2011
                      within Central Park.
156-2005  10-20-2005  Designating a 15-minute parking space.   50-2006
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute a
                      contract between the city and the City
160-2005  11-3-2005   of Flatwoods to furnish potable water    124, 2023
                      for distribution and sale within its
                      water distribution system.
171-2005  10-20-2005  Designating certain streets as one-way.  37, 2025
                      Repealing Ord. 28-2003 and providing for
38-2006   4-6-2006    the orderly succession of the office of  16-2011
                      Mayor in the event of a national or
                      state emergency.
48-2006   4-20-2006   Adopting the Code Enforcement Board.     122-2006
                      Repealing 129-1994 and adopting rules,
52-2006   4-20-2006   regulations, and fees governing the use  36-2011
                      of the activity room in Central Park.
81-2006   6-29-2006   Repealing and readopting the rules and   20-2008
                      regulations for the Police Department.
94-2006   7-20-2006   Amending placement of containers for     68-2015
                      garbage.
102-2006  8-3-2006    Amending penalties for overtime parking. 52-2016
131-2006  9-21-2006   Amending the regulations for promotions  84-2012
                      within the Fire Department.
                      Establishing the procedural regulations
132-2006  9-21-2006   and qualifications for hiring within the 46-2007
                      Fire Department.
                      Establishing the procedural regulations
157-2006  11-16-2006  and qualifications for hiring within the 99-2007
                      Police Department.
                      Amending sewer rates, fees, charges,
13-2007   3-1-2007    industrial pretreatment charges and      32-2018
                      penalties.
21-2007   3-15-2007   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an      61-2007
                      interlocal agreement.
                      Amending water rates, tap fees,
25-2007   3-15-2007   installation charges, service charges,   32-2018
                      penalties and interest.
45-2007   5-3-2007    Amending the regulations for promotions  84-2012
                      within the Fire Department.
46-2007   5-3-2007    Amending hiring for the Fire Department. 23-2009
74-2007   6-29-2007   Establishing Section 8 certificate and   118-2007
                      housing voucher program.
76-2007   6-29-2007   Alcoholic beverage regulations.          110-2013
90-2007   7-23-2007   Amending parking space provisions.       27, 2023
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to
92-2007   8-16-2007   execute an agreement between the city    84-2010
                      and Brooks Wells Enterprises.
                      Establishing the procedural regulations
99-2007   8-16-2007   and qualifications for hiring within the 159-2007
                      Police Department.
107-2007  9-6-2007    Amending connection charges.             32-2018
                      Establishing procedures for the use of
109-2007  9-6-2007    city streets, rights-of-way or           56-2009
                      facilities for street events.
125-2007  10-4-2007   Interlocal agreement to provide KPDES    52-2010
                      storm water discharge permit services.
141-2007  11-1-2007   Adopting certain state and national      41-2008
                      codes.
155, 2007 12-6-2007   Creating an occupational license fee,    51, 2021
                      repealing Ord. 84-2004.
159-2007  12-20-2007  Amending regulations for hiring within   12-2009
                      the Police Department.
20-2008   2-21-2008   Amending rules and regulations of Police 10-2009
                      Department.
23-2008   3-6-2008    Authorizing contract for sewer line      71-2008
                      work.
41-2008   4-17-2008   Adopting 2007 Kentucky Building and      116-2013
                      Residential Codes by reference.
45-2008   5-1-2008    Amending parking meter zones by removing 52-2016
                      parking meters in certain area.
58-2008   6-5-2008    Amending parking meter zones by removing 52-2016
                      parking meters in certain area.
                      Amending water rates, tap fees,
59-2008   6-5-2008    installation charges, service charges,   32-2018
                      penalties and interest.
                      Amending water rates, tap fees,
81-2008   8-21-2008   installation charges, service charges,   32-2018
                      penalties and interest.
87-2008   9-4-2008    Authorizing task order #5 between the    101-2008
                      city and KZF Design, Inc.
100-2008  10-2-2008   Authorizing agreement and repealing      107-2008
                      Ords. 130-1991, 113-1992 and 43-2000.
10-2009   2-19-2009   Amending rules and regulations of Police 32-2015
                      Department.
12-2009   2-19-2009   Regulations regarding Police Department  115-2009
                      recruitment and selection.
                      Amending regulations for hiring within
23-2009   3-5-2009    the Fire Department; repealing Ord. 46-  73-2013
                      2007.
30-2009   3-19-2009   Inflatable playgrounds in Central Park.  36-2011
                      Amending sewer rates, fees, charges,
52-2009   5-21-2009   industrial pretreatment charges and      32-2018
                      penalties. Repealing Ord. 81-2005.
                      Establishing procedures for the use of
56-2009   5-21-2009   city streets, rights-of-way or           157, 2020
                      facilities for street events. Repealing
                      Ord. 109-2007.
74-2009   6-18-2009   Amending rules and regulations of Police 32-2015
                      Department.
                      Adopting Title VI plan - civil rights
89-2009   6-29-2009   assurance for bus system pursuant to     117-2018
                      Federal Transit Administration
                      requirements.
102-2009  8-6-2009    Authorizing agreement with Boyd County   57-2018
                      Sanitation District No. 4.
115-2009  9-3-2009    Regulations regarding Police Department  121-2010
                      recruitment.
147-2009  10-15-2009  Amending rules and regulations of Police 32-2015
                      Department.
163-2009  12-3-2009   Designating one-way street.              37, 2025
                      Amending sewer tap fees, connection
17-2010   2-18-2010   charges, security deposit, and adding    32-2018
                      surcharge.
                      Amending sewer tap fees, connection
33-2010   3-18-2010   charges, security deposit, and           32-2018
                      surcharge.
50-2010   5-20-2010   Amending discharge limitations.          62-2012
67-2010   6-24-2010   Authorizing the submission of a grant    81-2011
                      application.
68-2010   6-24-2010   Amending rules and regulations for use   36-2011
                      of Central Park and other parks.
99-2010   10-21-2010  Providing for rules and regulations for  159, 2020
                      Port of Ashland, Riverside Park.
                      Amending Fire Department hiring
103-2010  10-21-2010  regulations regarding points and         73-2013
                      rankings.
121-2010  12-2-2010   Amending Police Department hiring        49-2014
                      regulations and repealing Ord. 115-2009.
                      Providing rules and regulations for the
36-2011   3-17-2011   use of Central Park and other city       43-2016
                      parks.
37-2011   3-17-2011   Amending traffic schedule relating to    37, 2025
                      one-way traffic; repealing Ord. 89-1981.
63-2011   6-2-2011    Amending permissible uses of the sewer   62-2012
                      system.
64-2011   6-2-2011    Establishing the position and duties of  21-2014
                      the Electrical Inspector.
                      Amending water rates, tap fees,
82-2011   7-21-2011   installation charges, service charges,   32-2018
                      penalties and interest.
83-2011   7-21-2011   Amending sewer tap fees, connection      32-2018
                      charges, security deposit and surcharge.
                      Adopting the policies and procedures,
91-2011   8-4-2011    compensation plan and classification     51-2017
                      plan.
118-2011  10-20-2011  Utility fines and penalties for willful  32-2018
                      or malicious acts.
8-2012    1-19-2012   Amending Ord. 64-2011.                   21-2014
22-2012   2-16-2012   Rental/use form approved for city        45-2014
                      facilities.
30-2012   5-3-2012    Amending water rates and charges.        32-2018
                      Authorizing the submission of the FY
44-2012   6-21-2012   2013 grant application to the Federal    63-2012
                      Transit Administration on behalf of the
                      Ashland Bus System.
51-2012   6-21-2012   Alcoholic beverage regulations.          110-2013
57-2012   6-27-2012   Amending rules and regulations for the   43-2016
                      use of Central Park.
18-2013   2-7-2013    Regarding personnel policies and         61-2019
                      procedures.
28-2013   3-7-2013    Alcoholic beverage regulations.          110-2013
47-2013   6-6-2013    Amending water fees and charges.         32-2018
48-2013   6-6-2013    Amending sewer fees and charges.         32-2018
62-2013   6-12-2013   Amending the annual occupational license 51, 2021
                      fee.
63-2013   6-12-2013   Alcoholic beverage regulations.          110-2013
                      Establishing Fire Department hiring
73-2013   6-27-2013   procedures and qualifications; repealing 174-2018
                      Ords. 23-2009 and 103-2010.
75-2013   8-8-2013    Authorizing contract with Mike Enyart &  109-2013
                      Sons, Inc.
96-2013   9-26-2013   Amending park rules and regulations.     43-2016
97-2013   9-26-2013   Amending rules and regulations for Port  159, 2020
                      of Ashland, Riverfront Park.
103-2013  10-24-2013  Adopting comprehensive plan by           97, 2020
                      reference.
107-2013  10-31-2013  Authorizing contract with Tri-State Lawn 14-2014
                      Care, Inc.
                      Amending alcoholic beverage licensing
110-2013  10-31-2013  and operation regulations. Repealing     59-2018
                      Ords. 143-2003, 123-2004, 76-2007, 51-
                      2012, 28-2013 and 63-2013.
                      Authorizing acceptance of deed of
17-2014   3-13-2014   conveyance for Lots 6A and 6B of Melody  34-2014
                      Mountain Subdivision.
26-2014   3-27-2014   Authorizing contract with Univar USA,    43-2014
                      Inc.
45-2014   5-8-2014    Rental/use form approved for city park   43-2016
                      facilities.
49-2014   6-4-2014    Amending hiring practices for police     9-2015
                      officers.
89-2014   10-9-2014   Adopting the city Title VI Program for   117-2018
                      the Ashland Bus System.
9-2015    1-8-2015    Amending hiring practices for police     50-2015
                      officers.
32-2015   3-26-2015   Amending rules and regulations of Police 116, 2024
                      Department.
50-2015   5-28-2015   Amending hiring practices for police     71-2016
                      officers. Repealing Ord. 9-2015.
                      Adopting the standard operating
51-2015   5-28-2015   procedures of the Ashland Fire           97, 2022
                      Department.
                      Amending regulations concerning garbage
68-2015   6-26-2015   disposal. Repealing Ords. 6-1976, 16-    32-2018
                      1976, 82-2005 and 94-2006.
                      Executing an agreement with the Boyd
76-2015   8-13-2015   County Council on Aging, Inc., Ashland   97-2015
                      Senior Center.
77-2015   8-13-2015   Executing an agreement with Community    98-2015
                      Assistance Referral Service, Inc.
79-2015   8-13-2015   Executing an agreement with the          116-2015
                      Salvation Army of Ashland.
80-2015   8-13-2015   Executing an agreement with Shelter of   99-2015
                      Hope, Inc.
                      Amending regulations regarding the
90-2015   8-31-2015   discharge of toy pistols, air rifles, BB 107-2015
                      guns and the like.
                      Authorizing execution of documentation
102-2015  10-8-2015   regarding the disbursement of coal       108-2016
                      severance funds.
108-2015  12-10-2015  Amending penalty provisions for parking  52-2016
                      violations.
2-2016    1-14-2016   Amending Ord. 68-2015.                   32-2018
41-2016   3-24-2016   Amending Ord. 73-2013.                   172, 2024
71-2016   6-1-2016    Police hiring regulations. Repealing     172-2018
                      Ord. 50-2015.
103-2016  9-22-2016   Amending Ord. 105-2000 regarding areas   194, 2021
                      where dogs are prohibited.
                      Amending Ord. 68-2015 regarding fees for
10-2017   1-26-2017   gathering and disposing of waste         32-2018
                      materials.
                      Mutual aid agreement between the City,
49-2017   6-9-2017    Fire Department and Boyd County           
                      emergency management.
                      Adopting the policies and procedures,
51-2017   6-9-2017    compensation plan and classification     112, 2021
                      plan.
55-2017   6-27-2017   Amending alcoholic beverage regulations. 59-2018
60-2017   6-27-2017   Agreement with subrecipient of community 104-2017
                      development block grant.
                      Amending the comprehensive hiring
101-2017  10-12-2017  ordinance for police officers for the    174, 2022
                      Department of Police
                      Authorizing the Mayor to execute an
                      agreement between the city and Bluegrass
103-2017  10-27-2017  Fillies M and M Management Services LLC  63, 2020
                      regarding a parking encroachment on 8th
                      Street at 739 Carter Avenue on the city
                      s right-of-way.
                      Authorizing a grant agreement with
1-2018    1-11-2018   respect to the hotel redevelopment       177-2018
                      project.
30-2018   2-8-2018    Providing for rules and regulations for  159, 2020
                      Port of Ashland, Riverside Park.
32-2018   2-8-2018    Amending garbage, water and sewer        36, 2023
                      provisions.
55-2018   3-22-2018   Authorizing five-year extension to       148-2018
                      housing choice voucher program.
59-2018   3-22-2018   Establishing regulations for sale of     8, 2021
                      alcoholic beverages.
60-2018   3-22-2018   Establishing grant application           169-2018
                      guidelines.
                      Authorizing a contract with Marcus
                      Hatten d/b/a H&S Construction & Lawn
71-2018   4-26-2018   Care for the purchase of all labor for   84-2018
                      the abatement of high grass and weeds on
                      residential lots, for the Department of
                      Planning and Community Development.
89-2018   6-24-2018   Fixing the regulatory license fee from   8, 2021
                      sale of alcoholic beverages.
117-2018  7-26-2018   Title VI Program Civil Rights Assurance  4, 2021
                      for the bus system.
165-2018  11-29-2018  Amending traffic schedule relating to    37, 2025
                      one-way traffic.
169-2018  11-29-2018  Establishing guidelines and procedures   86, 2021
                      for contributions by the city.
172-2018  12-13-2018  Police Department hiring and employment  170, 2021
                      regulations.
174-2018  12-13-2018  Fire Department hiring and employment    37, 2023
                      regulations.
19-2019   3-14-2019   Regarding personnel policies and         61-2019
                      procedures.
26-2019   3-14-2019   Amending Ord. 105-2000 regarding animal  194, 2021
                      investigations.
61, 2019  4-25-2019   Adopting procurement regulations.        126, 2022
87, 2019  6-13-2019   Amending procurement regulations.        126, 2022
                      Authorizing and approving change order
                      no. 1 between the city and Southern Ohio
114, 2019 8-8-2019    Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for a     135, 2019
                      contract regarding the waterline
                      replacement on U.S. 23.
141-2019  10-24-2019  Amending regulations regarding traffic   37, 2025
                      flow for one-way streets and alleys
36, 2020  4-9-2020    Adopting the 2020 CDBG citizen           46, 2020
                      participation plan.
37, 2020  4-9-2020    Adopting 2020-2024 CDBG consolidated     47, 2020
                      plan.
47, 2020  4-23-2020   Adopting CBDG plan; repealing Ord. 37,   43, 2021
                      2020.
105, 2020 6-26-2020   Establishing premium rates for medical   89, 2021
                      care plan.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city
132, 2020 9-11-2020   and Frederick & May Construction         140, 2020
                      Company, Inc. for the Debord Terrace
                      sidewalk, stairs and handrail project.
4, 2021   1-28-2021   Title VI Program Civil Rights Assurance  136, 2024
                      for the bus system.
73, 2021  6-10-2021   Requiring registration of residential    58, 2024
                      housing units.
155, 2021 10-14-2021  Lease and service agreement with Safe    110, 2024
                      Haven Baby Boxes, Inc.
168, 2021 10-15-2021  Amending one-way streets.                37, 2025
170, 2021 10-15-2021  Police hiring regulations. Repealing     174, 2022
                      Ord. 172, 2018
176, 2021 11-18-2021  Amending sewer rates.                    36, 2023
                      Authorizing a contract between the city
8, 2022   1-27-2022   and Bobby s Mulch for the demolition of  44, 2022
                      property located at 457 30th Street.
                      Authorizing a contract between the city
13, 2022  1-27-2022   and Light s Enterprises, Inc. for the    46, 2022
                      demolition of property located at 1632
                      Hilton Avenue.
26, 2022  2-24-2022   Amending comprehensive hiring ordinance  174, 2022
                      for police officers.
                      Authorizing a mutual aid agreement
                      between the city, Ashland Fire
111, 2022 6-24-2022   Department, and the Route 504 Volunteer  125, 2022
                      Fire Department in Greenup County,
                      Kentucky.
126, 2022 7-28-2022   Adopting procurement regulations.        49, 2023
                      Authorizing and directing the Mayor to
                      execute a contract between the city and
148, 2022 9-8-2022    Utilis Inc. d/b/a Asterra for remote     168, 2022
                      sensing water leak detection for the
                      Department of Utility Operations,
                      Division of Water Distribution.
150, 2022 9-8-2022    Adding the position of School Resource   174, 2022
                      Officer.
36, 2023  3-24-2023   Garbage, water and sewer provisions.     93, 2024
37, 2023  4-27-2023   Hiring procedures for the Fire           172, 2024
                      Department.
85, 2023  6-23-2023   Garbage, water and sewer provisions;     93, 2024
                      amending Ord. 36, 2023.
186, 2022 12-15-2022  Garbage.                                 36, 2023
164, 2023 12-14-2023  Establishing the line of authority for   1, 2025
                      the City Manager.
7, 2024   1-25-2024   Traffic flow; amending Ord. 137, 2000.   37, 2025
56, 2024  5-9-2024    Agreement for purchase of cloud-based    68, 2024
                      software.
93, 2024  6-13-2024   Garbage.                                 215, 2024
102, 2024 6-14-2024   Minority loan no. 2024-M-003 to the Mill 130, 2024
                      Caf and Bakery, LLC.
                      Approving minority loan no. 2024-M-004
103, 2024 6-14-2024   to Broadway Books, LLC in the amount of  9, 2025
                      $25,000.
116, 2024 - -2024     Procedural regulations for police        205, 2024
                      officers.
143, 2024 8-22-2024   Water rates.                             215, 2024
                      Authorization of contract with Light's
                      Enterprises, Inc. for purchase of all
184, 2024 12-12-2024  labor, materials, equipment and services 46, 2025
                      for demolition and removal of debris of
                      1213 Gallaher Drive in the amount of
                      $3,200.
                                                             
 
 
TABLE XVIII: AD VALOREM TAXES AND REGULATORY LICENSE FEES
 
Ord. Date Passed Description
Ord.      Date Passed Description
                      1994 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on real
60-1995   6-1-1995    estate, personal property, and franchises at $0.5451 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
61-1995   6-1-1995    1994 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on bank
                      stocks at $0.2007 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      1994 ad valorem tax rates for school purposes on real
73-1995   6-15-1995   estate, personal property, and franchises at $0.4850 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
                      1995 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on real
63-1996   6-17-1996   estate, personal property, and franchises at $0.5451 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
                      1995 ad valorem tax rates for school purposes on real
70-1996   6-29-1996   estate, personal property, and franchises at $0.4940 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
4-1997    1-2-1997    1996 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on bank
                      deposits at $0.025 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      1996 ad valorem taxes for revenue purposes on real
94-1997   7-1-1997    estate, personal property and franchises at $0.5376 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
                      1996 ad valorem tax rates for school purposes on real
                      estate, personal property and franchises as follows:
                      (1) School General Fund-Real Estate at $0.4400 per $100
95-1997   7-1-1997    assessed valuation;
                      (2) Special voted tax for college at $0.0500 per $100
                      assessed valuation;
                      (3) School General Fund-Personal Property at $0.4460 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
118-1997  8-21-1997   Fixing the tax levy on the bank deposit franchise tax for
                      1997.
                      1997 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on real
63-1998   6-23-1998   estate, personal property and franchises at $0.5708 per
                      $100 assessed valuation.
64-1998   6-23-1998   1998 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on bank
                      deposits at $0.025 per $100 assessed valuation.
56-1999   5-20-1999   1998 ad valorem taxes on real estate, personal property
                      and franchises at $0.4700 per $100 assessed value.
57-1999   5-20-1999   1999 tax levy on bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes at $0.025 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      2000 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on real
                      estate, personal property and franchises as follows:
65-2000   5-18-2000   (1) Ad valorem $0.3055 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      (2) PSC franchise at $0.4700 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      (3) Floodwall at $0.0700 per $100 assessed valuation.
66-2000   5-18-2000   2000 tax levy on bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes at $0.025 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      2001 ad valorem tax rates for revenue purposes on real
                      estate, personal property and franchises as follows:
71-2001   6-7-2001    (1) Ad valorem $0.3055 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      (2) PSC franchise at $0.4700 per $100 assessed valuation.
                      (3) Floodwall at $0.0700 per $100 assessed valuation.
72-2001   6-7-2001    2001 bank deposit franchise tax for revenue purposes set
                      at a tax rate of $0.025 per $100 assessed valuation.
63-2002   6-27-2002   2002-2003 regulatory licence fee set at 3.5 of the gross
                      receipts from sale of alcoholic beverages.
                      2002 bank deposit franchise tax for revenue purposes set
64-2002   6-27-2002   at a tax rate of 0.025 on each $100 value of such
                      property.
                      2002 ad valorem tax rates on real estate, personal
                      property, and franchises subject to taxes for revenue
                      purposes as follows: ad valorem fund, $0.3055; floodwall
70-2002   7-2-2002    fund, $0.0700. Discount of 1 on taxes only which are paid
                      on or before the 30th day following the bill date.
                      Penalty of 10 and 6 interest per annum for taxes paid
                      after the due date.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of gross
78-2003   6-20-2003   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages for the
                      fiscal year 2003-2004.
79-2003   6-20-2003   Fixing the 2003 bank deposit franchise tax at $0.025 per
                      $100 valuation.
                      2003 ad valorem tax rate on real estate, personal
                      property, and franchises for revenue purposes as follows,
                      per $100 value of property: Ad valorem tax, $0.3124;
82-2003   7-1-2003    floodwall, $0.0728. Discount of 1 on taxes only which are
                      paid on or before the 15th day following the bill date.
                      Penalty of 10 and 6 interest per annum for taxes paid
                      after the due date.
143-2003  11-20-2003  Fixing the regulatory license fee from the sale of
                      alcoholic beverages.
                      Permitting rebate or retention of 1.375 occupational
83-2004   6-28-2004   license fee by AK Steel Corporation under application for
                      incentives under Kentucky Industrial Revitalization Act.
85-2004   6-28-2004   Fixing the 2004 bank deposit franchise tax at $0.025 per
                      $100 valuation.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee, beginning July 1, 2004
86-2004   6-28-2004   and extending through June 30, 2005, at 3.5 of gross
                      receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
87-2004   6-28-2004   Approving and adopting the 2004-2005 budget.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for 2004 on real estate,
99-2004   7-1-2004    personal property and franchises subject to such taxes on
                      each $100 of value; ad valorem rate $0.3176; floodwall
                      rate $0.0757.
79-2005   6-1-2005    Fixing the tax levy for 2005, payable in 2006, on the
                      bank deposits franchise tax for revenue purposes.
                      Fixing the regulatory license at 3.5 of the gross
90-2005   6-2-2005    receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the fiscal year July 1, 2005 through June 30,
                      2006.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for 2005 on real estate,
101-2005  6-27-2005   personal property and franchises subject to such taxes on
                      each $100 of value; ad valorem rate $0.3245; floodwall
                      rate $0.0773.
85-2006   6-29-2006   Fixing the tax levy for 2006, payable in 2007, on the
                      bank deposits franchise tax for revenue purposes.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of the gross
86-2006   6-29-2006   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages during the
                      fiscal year July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2006.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for 2006 on real estate,
88-2006   6-30-2006   personal property and franchise subject to such taxes on
                      each $100 of value; ad valorem rate $0.3295; floodwall
                      rate $0.0804.
                      2007 ad valorem tax rates on real estate, personal
                      property, and franchises subject to taxes for revenue
                      purposes as follows: ad valorem fund, $0.3372; Floodwall
80-2007   6-29-2007   Fund, $0.0836. Discount of on taxes only which are paid
                      on or before the 30th day following the bill date.
                      Penalty of 10 and 6 interest per annum for taxes paid
                      after the due date.
81-2007   6-29-2007   Fixing the tax levy for 2007, payable in 2008, on the
                      bank deposits franchise tax for revenue purposes.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of the gross
82-2007   6-29-2007   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages during the
                      fiscal year July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008.
63-2008   6-9-2008    Fixing the tax levy for 2008, payable in 2009, on the
                      bank deposits franchise tax for revenue purposes.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of the gross
64-2008   6-9-2008    receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages during the
                      fiscal year July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for 2008, payable in 2008,
75-2008   7-17-2008   on real estate, personal property and franchises in the
                      city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of the gross
69-2009   6-4-2009    receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the fiscal year July 1, 2009 through June 30,
                      2010.
                      Fixing ad valorem tax levy for 2009, payable in year 2009
97-2009   6-30-2009   on real estate, personal property and franchises in the
                      city.
54-2010   6-3-2010    Approving and adopting the 2010-2011 budget.
                      Fixing the tax levy for 2010, payable in the year 2011,
55-2010   6-3-2010    on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue purposes
                      by the city.
                      Fixing ad valorem tax levy for 2010, payable in year 2010
69-2010   6-24-2010   on real estate, personal property and franchises in the
                      city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of the gross
70-2010   6-24-2010   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within said
                      city during the FY 2010-2011.
                      Fixing ad valorem tax levy for 2011, payable in year 2011
70-2011   6-16-2011   on real estate, personal property and franchises in the
                      city.
                      Fixing the tax levy for 2011, payable in the year 2012,
71-2011   6-16-2011   on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue purposes
                      by the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 3.5 of the gross
74-2011   6-16-2011   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within said
                      city during the FY 2011-2012.
                      Fixing the tax levy for the year 2012, payable in the
52-2012   6-21-2012   year 2013, on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the FY 2012, payable
56-2012   6-27-2012   in the year 2012, on real estate, personal property and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
64-2013   6-12-2013   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2013-2014.
                      Fixing the tax levy for the year 2013, payable in the
65-2013   6-12-2013   year 2014, on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2013, payable
69-2013   6-27-2013   in the year 2013, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the tax levy for the year 2014, payable in the
55-2014   6-26-2014   year 2015, on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
56-2014   6-26-2014   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2014-2015.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2014, payable
67-2014   6-30-2014   in the year 2014, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
58-2015   6-25-2015   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2015-2016.
                      Fixing the tax levy for the year 2015, payable in the
59-2015   6-25-2015   year 2016, on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2015, payable
64-2015   6-25-2015   in the year 2015, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the tax levy for the year 2016, payable in the
73-2016   6-23-2016   year 2017, on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
74-2016   6-23-2016   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2016-2017.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2016, payable
82-2016   7-6-2016    in the year 2016, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
46-2017   6-9-2017    receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2017-2018.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2017, payable
56-2017   6-27-2017   in the year 2018, on the bank deposits franchise tax for
                      revenue purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2017, payable
69-2017   6-27-2017   in the year 2017, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2018, payable
94-2018   6-25-2018   in the year 2019, on the bank deposits franchise tax for
                      revenue purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2018, payable
102-2018  6-28-2018   in the year 2018, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
73-2019   5-22-2019   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2019-2020.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2019, payable
99-2019   6-13-2019   in the year 2019, on real estate, personal property and
                      franchises in the city.
138, 2019 10-24-2019  Fixing the tax levy for the year 2019, payable in the
                      year 2020, on the bank deposits franchise tax.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
83, 2020  6-25-2020   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2020-2021.
84, 2020  6-25-2020   Fixing the tax levy for the year 2020, payable in the
                      year 2021, on the bank deposits franchise tax.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2020, payable
134, 2020 9-11-2020   in the year 2020, on real estate, personal property and
                      franchises in the city.
84, 2021  6-24-2021   Fixing the tax levy for the year 2021, payable in the
                      year 2022, on the bank deposits franchise tax.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
85, 2021  6-24-2021   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2021-2022.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2021, payable
99, 2021  6-25-2021   in the year 2021, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
113, 2022 6-24-2022   Fixing the tax levy for the year 2022, payable in the
                      year 2023, on the bank deposits franchise tax.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2022, payable
114, 2022 6-24-2022   in the year 2022, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Approving the economic incentive program application of
144, 2022 8-25-2022   Big Sandy Distribution, Inc. permitting the rebate or
                      retention of occupational license fees.
                      Amending Ord. 144, 2022, approving economic incentive
167, 2022 10-14-2022  program application for property located at 1325 Greenup
                      Avenue instead of previously approved property located at
                      1241 Greenup Avenue.
69, 2023  6-8-2023    Fixing the tax levy for the year 2023, payable in the
                      year 2024, on the bank deposits franchise tax.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for year 2023, payable in
87, 2023  6-23-2023   the year 2023, on real estate, personal property and
                      franchises in the city.
                      Amending Section 2 of Ord. 68, 2023, which is commonly
73, 2024  - -2024     known and referred to as the FY2023-2024 budget ordinance
                      of the city.
                      Amending Section 2 of Ord. 68, 2023, previously amended
84, 2024  6-13-2024   by Ord. 73, 2024, which is commonly known and referred to
                      as the FY2023-2024 budget ordinance of the city.
                      Approving and adopting the 2024-2025 budget and
                      appropriating revenues on hand and to be received during
85, 2024  6-13-2024   the year 2024-2025 for the payment of expenses of the
                      city for the 12-month period beginning July 1, 2024 and
                      ending June 30, 2025.
                      Fixing the tax levy for the year 2024, payable in the
86, 2024  6-13-2024   year 2025, on the bank deposits franchise tax for revenue
                      purposes by the city.
                      Fixing the regulatory license fee at 4 of the gross
87, 2024  6-13-2024   receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages within the
                      city during the FY 2024-2025.
                      Fixing the ad valorem tax levy for the year 2024, payable
                      in the year 2024, on real estate, personal property, and
                      franchises in the city for the city revenue purposes,
                      providing for a discount of 1 on ad valorem taxes only
131, 2024 7-26-2024   which are paid on or before the 15th day following the
                      bill date and providing for a penalty of 1 and 6 interest
                      per annum for any taxes which are paid after the due
                      date, said due date being 30 days following the bill
                      date.
                      Approving economic development incentive program
                      application of Big Sandy Distribution, Inc. for property
203, 2024 12-12-2024  located at 1325 Green Avenue, providing for the
                      reimbursement of parking fees for the parking lot located
                      at 1405 Greenup Avenue.
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                           Code Section
Chapter 11A                           111.006
15.310 to 15.510                      34.16
15.380 to 15.402                      34.16
                                      34.16;
15.380 to 15.404                      34.20;
                                      34.22;
                                      34.24
                                      34.04;
15.382                                34.18;
                                      34.22
15.391                                34.21
15.405                                34.21
15.406                                34.21
15.410 through 15.520                 34.04
15.990                                34.03
15.990 to 15.992                      34.16
15A.020                               34.16
17.150                                34.04
18A.225(2)                            119.03
18A.228                               119.03
Chapters 39A to 39G                   32.01
39A.100                               30.07
39B.030(3)                            32.01
39B.060(2)                            32.01
39C.050(3)                            32.01
41.240                                37.080
41.240(4)                             37.076
58.010                                TSO IV
                                      30.01;
Chapter 61                            31.001;
                                      35.02
61.165                                99.03
61.805                                30.01;
                                      35.02
61.805 through 61.850                 30.01;
                                      35.02
61.810                                30.01;
                                      35.02
61.823                                30.02
61.876                                31.001
61.878                                157.302
65.8801 to 65.8839                    35.26
67.750 to 67.795                      115.08
67.750(10)                            115.08
67.790                                115.10;
                                      115.12
70.290                                34.18;
                                      34.19
79.080                                33.01;
                                      34.01
Chapter 80                            35.30
82.700 et seq.                        35.26
82.700 to 82.725                      35.26
82.720                                35.26
83A.010(10)                           10.02
Chapter 83A                           30.07
83A.010(6)                            10.02
83A.010(8)                            10.02
83A.010(9)                            10.02
83A.010(11)                           10.02
83A.060                               10.17
83A.065                               10.02
83A.130                               30.07
83A.130(2)                            30.07
83A.150(4)                            30.02
83A.l50(7)(b)                         111.005
90.300                                37.002
91A.010(4)                            10.02
91A.010(8)                            10.02
91A.350 to 91A.390                    35.27
91A.350                               35.27
91A.360                               35.27
91A.390                               35.27
95.022                                34.19
95.450                                34.54
95.852                                33.01;
                                      34.01
95.955                                34.50
95A.040                               33.17;
                                      33.32
Chapter 96                            Ch. 51
96.930 et seq.                        50.025
97.010                                Ch. 96
97.020                                35.25
97.425                                35.25
97.441                                35.25
97.455                                35.24
97.465                                35.24
99.610 to 99.680                      37.005
                                      35.19;
                                      153.01;
                                      Ch. 154;
Chapter 100                           157.002;
                                      157.024;
                                      157.240;
                                      157.242
100.131                               35.19
100.133                               35.19
100.143                               35.19
100.147                               35.19
100.157                               35.19
100.197                               156.01
Chapter 100.203(4)                    157.042
100.217 through 100.233               35.17
Chapter 100, 253                      157.003
100.273 through 100.291               Ch. 154
100.985 to 100.987                    157.299
Chapter 103                           37.051
118.105                               31.032
118.115                               31.032
118.325                               31.032
118.760                               31.032
131.010(6)                            119.04
131.1815                              111.024
Chapter 151                           153.05
151.250                               153.05;
                                      153.06
151.280                               153.05
151.310                               153.05
151.320                               153.05
Chapter 154A                          111.034
160.605 through 160.611               37.002
160.613 through 160.617               37.002
160.621 through 160.633               37.002
160.637                               37.002
177.042                               97.048
177.043                               97.048
177.044(3)                            97.048
177.047                               97.048
183.132                               35.15
186.020                               73.05
186.042                               72.085
186.050                               73.05
                                      Ch. 71;
Chapter 189                           71.43;
                                      73.04
189.010                               70.01
189.010(2)                            70.01
189.010(3)                            114.001
189.010(18)                           114.001
189.010(19)                           70.01
189.011(1)(b)                         114.001
189.070                               72.005
189.140                               94.02
189.280(3)                            71.55
189.286                               71.10
189.287                               71.06
189.337                               70.01;
                                      71.40
189.378(1)                            70.01
189.390                               71.09;
                                      Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
189.400                               71.25
189.450                               72.006;
                                      72.009
189.459                               72.086
189.700                               70.01;
                                      114.001
                                      72.007;
189.751                               72.999;
                                      95.18
189.751(1)                            114.001
189.754                               114.035
189.820                               73.03
189.910                               70.01
189.910(2)                            114.001
189.920 to 189.950                    114.001
189.920(4)                            114.001
189.940                               71.02
189.990                               Ch. 74, Sch. IV
189.990(1)                            72.999
198B.060(5)                           TSO IV
Chapter 218A                          101.01;
                                      111.023
218A.010                              157.003
218A.050 through 218A.130             111.034
218B                                  157.003
218B.110                              157.003
218B.125                              157.003
Chapter 224                           54.07
224.01.410(4)(a)                      151.43
224.20-720                            73.05
226.010                               116.01
226.020                               116.02
226.030                               116.07
226.040                               116.03
226.050                               116.04
226.060                               116.08
226.070                               116.03
226.080                               116.05
226.090                               116.06
226.100                               116.08
226.990(1)                            116.99
226.990(3)                            116.99
Chapter 227                           Ch. 92;
                                      92.02
227.490                               119.39
227.700 through and including 227.992 92.01
227.700 to 227.992                    92.01
227.702(1)                            92.04
227.702(2)                            92.02;
                                      92.04
227.702(3)                            92.02;
                                      92.04
227.710                               92.03
227.750                               92.99
Chapters 241 to 244                   111.023;
                                      111.062
                                      111.002;
                                      111.004;
Chapter 241                           111.034;
                                      111.035;
                                      111.057;
                                      111.061
241.010(40)                           111.063
241.170                               111.005
241.200                               111.026
                                      111.002;
                                      111.004;
Chapter 242                           111.035;
                                      111.057;
                                      111.061
242.020                               111.003
242.050                               111.003
242.110                               111.003
242.1292                              111.020;
                                      111.039
                                      111.002;
                                      111.004;
Chapter 243                           111.034;
                                      111.035;
                                      111.057;
                                      111.061
243.030                               111.029
243.040                               111.029
243.060                               111.034
                                      111.020;
243.070                               111.029;
                                      111.034
243.180                               111.075
243.260                               111.020
243.270                               111.020
243.360 et seq.                       111.026
243.380                               111.022
243.390                               111.022
243.600                               111.034
243.610                               111.034
243.850                               111.056
                                      111.002;
                                      111.004;
Chapter 244                           111.034;
                                      111.035;
                                      111.057;
                                      111.061
244.090                               111.061
244.120                               111.034
244.330                               111.020
258.065                               90.26
258.087                               90.25
258.135                               90.17
260.850                               157.003
304.39-080                            73.03
344.010                               91.02
344.310 through 344.450               35.18
344.360                               91.02;
                                      91.03
344.367                               91.02
344.370                               91.02;
                                      91.04
344.380                               91.02
344.680                               91.02
Chapter 350                           153.05
Chapter 353                           Ch. 150
353.110 through 353.180               150.02
360.010                               35.26
360.040                               35.26
376.275                               114.085
376.280                               114.085
Chapter 381                           157.003
381.770 et seq.                       35.26
381.770                               93.15
403.720(1)                            101.01
Chapter 424                           111.021
424.170                               111.021
446.010(1)                            10.02
446.010(2)                            10.02
446.010(7)                            10.02
446.010(9)                            10.02
446.010(10)                           10.02
446.010(12)                           10.02
446.010(13)                           10.02
446.010(14)                           10.02
446.010(15)                           10.02
446.010(17)                           10.02
446.010(18)                           10.02
446.010(23)                           10.02
446.010(25)                           10.02
446.010(26)                           10.02
446.010(27)                           10.02
446.010(28)                           10.02
446.010(30)                           10.02
446.010(31)                           10.02
446.010(33)                           10.02
446.010(37)                           10.02
446.010(39)                           10.02
446.010(43)                           10.02
446.010(46)                           10.02
446.010(47)                           10.02
446.010(49)                           10.02
446.010(55)                           10.02
446.020(1)                            10.03
446.020(2)                            10.03
446.030                               10.04
446.060                               10.05
446.080(1)                            10.03
446.080(3)                            10.03
446.080(4)                            10.03
446.110                               10.07
446.140                               10.01
Chapters 500 through 534              151.99
Chapter 508                           101.01
517.030                               130.02
522.030                               157.302
Chapter 525                           101.01
525.055                               100.03
525.060                               96.07;
                                      100.03
525.130                               90.01
Chapter 527                           101.01
527.020                               130.18
Chapter 528                           101.01
Chapter 529                           101.01
529.010(3)                            111.062
Chapter 531                           101.01
532.090(1)                            10.02
                                      10.99;
                                      35.27;
                                      55.99;
                                      72.999;
534.040                               Ch. 74, Sch. V;
                                      Ch. 74, Sch. XIII;
                                      Ch. 75, Sch II;
                                      Ch. 75, Sch. IV;
                                      Ch. 75, Sch. VI;
                                      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                                      90.17;
                                      90.23;
                                      90.24;
                                      90.29;
                                      92.99;
                                      93.99;
                                      96.99;
534.040                               97.999;
                                      100.99;
                                      111.999;
                                      120.99;
                                      130.15;
                                      130.16;
                                      151.99;
                                      153.99
534.040(c)                            158.99
534.040(2)                            90.99
534.040(2)(a)                         10.02;
                                      120.99
                                      10.02;
534.040(2)(c)                         94.99;
                                      119.99;
                                      120.99
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.06              10.05
10.07              10.06
10.09              10.07
10.10              10.08
10.11              10.09
10.12              10.10
10.13              10.11
10.14              10.12
10.15              10.13
10.16              10.14
10.17              10.15
10.18              10.16
10.19              10.17
10.99              10.99
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.04              30.04
30.05              30.05
30.06              30.06
30.07              30.07
31.01              31.001
31.10              31.015
31.11              31.016
31.12              31.017
31.13              31.018
31.25              31.030
31.26              31.031
31.27              31.032
31.28              31.033
31.29              31.034
31.30              31.035
31.31              31.036
31.40              31.050
31.50              31.065
31.51              31.066
31.52              31.067
31.53              31.068
31.54              31.069
31.55              31.070
31.56              31.071
31.57              31.072
31.58              31.073
31.59              31.074
31.70              31.085
31.80              31.100
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.10              33.15
33.11              33.16
33.12              33.17
33.13              33.18
33.14              33.19
33.15              33.21
33.16              33.35
33.17              33.22
33.18              33.23
33.19              33.24
33.20              33.25
33.21              33.26
33.22              33.27
33.23              33.28
33.24              33.29
33.25              33.34
33.27              33.36
33.28              33.37
33.29              33.38
33.60              33.50
33.61              33.51
33.62              33.52
33.63              33.53
33.64              33.54
33.65              33.55
33.66              33.56
34.01              34.01
34.02              34.02
34.03              34.03
34.04              34.04
34.20              34.15
34.21              34.16
34.22              34.17
34.23              34.18
34.24              34.19
34.25              34.20
34.26              34.21
34.27              34.22
34.28              34.23
34.29              34.24
34.30              34.25
34.31              34.26
34.32              34.27
34.33              34.28
34.34              34.29
34.35              34.30
34.36              34.31
34.37              34.32
34.50              34.45
34.51              34.46
34.52              34.47
34.53              34.48
34.54              34.49
34.55              34.50
34.56              34.51
34.57              34.52
34.58              34.53
34.59              34.54
34.60              34.55
35.01              35.01
35.02              35.02
35.03              35.03
35.10              35.15
35.11              35.16
35.12              35.17
35.13              35.18
35.14              35.19
35.15              35.20
35.16              35.21
35.17              35.22
35.18              35.23
35.19              35.24
35.20              35.25
35.22              35.26
35.24              35.27
35.25              35.28
35.26              35.29
35.27              35.30
37.001             37.001
37.002             37.002
37.003             37.003
37.004             37.004
37.005             37.005
37.006             37.006
37.007             37.007
37.020             37.020
37.021             37.021
37.022             37.022
37.023             37.023
37.040             37.035
37.085             37.050
37.086             37.051
37.087             37.052
37.088             37.053
37.089             37.054
37.090             37.055
37.091             37.056
37.092             37.057
37.115             37.070
37.116             37.071
37.117             37.072
37.118             37.073
37.119             37.074
37.120             37.075
37.121             37.076
37.122             37.077
37.123             37.078
37.124             37.079
37.125             37.080
37.126             37.081
37.127             37.082
37.170             37.095
37.171             37.096
37.172             37.097
37.173             37.098
37.174             37.099
37.175             37.100
37.176             37.101
37.177             37.102
37.178             37.103
50.001             50.001
50.002             50.002
50.003             50.003
50.004             50.004
50.005             50.005
50.006             50.006
50.015             50.020
50.016             50.021
50.017             50.022
50.018             50.023
50.019             50.024
50.020             50.025
50.021             50.026
50.022             50.027
50.023             50.028
50.024             50.029
50.025             50.030
50.035             50.045
50.036             50.046
50.037             50.047
50.038             50.048
50.050             50.060
50.051             50.061
50.052             50.062
50.053             50.063
50.054             50.064
50.055             50.065
50.056             50.066
50.057             50.067
50.070             50.080
50.071             50.081
50.072             50.082
50.073             50.083
50.074             50.084
50.075             50.085
50.076             50.086
50.077             50.087
50.085             50.100
50.090             50.115
50.091             50.116
50.092             50.117
50.093             50.118
50.094             50.119
50.095             50.120
50.096             50.121
50.097             50.122
50.098             50.123
50.099             50.124
50.100             50.125
50.101             50.126
50.102             50.127
50.103             50.128
50.104             50.129
50.105             50.130
50.106             50.131
50.107             50.132
50.120             50.145
50.121             50.146
50.122             50.147
50.123             50.148
50.124             50.149
50.130             50.160
50.131             50.161
50.140             50.175
50.141             50.176
50.142             50.177
50.150             50.190
50.151             50.191
50.152             50.192
50.153             50.193
50.154             50.194
50.180             50.205
50.181             50.206
50.182             50.207
50.183             50.208
50.184             50.209
50.185             50.210
50.186             50.211
50.187             50.212
50.195             50.225
50.196             50.226
50.197             50.227
50.198             50.228
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
51.10              51.15
51.11              51.16
51.12              51.17
51.25              51.30
51.26              51.31
51.27              51.32
51.28              51.33
51.29              51.34
51.30              51.35
51.31              51.36
51.32              51.37
51.33              51.38
52.01              52.01
52.02              52.02
52.03              52.03
52.04              52.04
52.05              52.05
52.06              52.06
52.07              52.07
52.08              52.08
52.09              52.09
52.10              52.10
52.11              52.11
52.12              52.12
52.13              52.13
52.14              52.14
52.15              52.15
52.16              52.16
52.17              52.17
52.18              52.18
52.19              52.19
52.20              52.20
52.30              52.35
52.31              52.36
52.32              52.37
52.33              52.38
52.34              52.39
52.35              52.40
52.36              52.41
52.37              52.42
52.38              52.43
52.39              52.44
52.40              52.45
52.99              52.99
53.01              53.01
53.02              53.02
53.03              53.03
53.04              53.04
53.05              53.05
53.06              53.06
53.07              53.07
53.08              53.08
53.09              53.09
53.10              53.10
53.11              53.11
53.12              53.12
53.99              53.99
54.01              54.01
54.02              54.02
54.03              54.03
54.04              54.04
54.05              54.05
54.06              54.06
54.07              54.07
54.08              54.08
54.09              54.09
54.10              54.10
55.01              55.01
55.02              55.02
55.03              55.03
55.04              55.04
55.99              55.99
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
71.04              71.04
71.05              71.05
71.06              71.06
71.07              71.07
71.08              71.08
71.09              71.09
71.10              71.10
71.21              71.25
71.22              71.26
71.23              71.27
71.45              71.40
71.46              71.41
71.47              71.42
71.48              71.43
71.65              71.55
71.66              71.56
71.99              71.99
72.001             72.001
72.002             72.002
72.003             72.003
72.004             72.004
72.005             72.005
72.006             72.006
72.007             72.007
72.008             72.008
72.009             72.009
72.010             72.010
72.011             72.011
72.012             72.012
72.013             72.013
72.014             72.014
72.025             72.025
72.040             72.040
72.041             72.041
72.042             72.042
72.063             72.055
72.070             72.070
72.075             72.085
72.076             72.086
72.077             72.087
72.090             72.100
72.091             72.101
72.092             72.102
72.093             72.103
72.094             72.104
72.095             72.105
72.100             72.120
72.105             72.135
72.106             72.136
72.107             72.137
72.999             72.999
Ch. 73, Sch. I     Ch. 74, Sch. I
Ch. 73, Sch. II    Ch. 74, Sch. II
Ch. 73, Sch. III   Ch. 74, Sch. III
Ch. 73, Sch. IV    Ch. 74, Sch. IV
Ch. 73, Sch. V     Ch. 74, Sch. V
Ch. 73, Sch. VI    Ch. 74, Sch. VI
Ch. 73, Sch. VII   Ch. 74, Sch. VII
Ch. 73, Sch. VIII  Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
Ch. 73, Sch. IX    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
Ch. 73, Sch. XI    Ch. 74, Sch. X
Ch. 73, Sch. XII   Ch. 74, Sch. XI
Ch. 73, Sch. XIII  Ch. 74, Sch. XII
Ch. 73, Sch. XIV   Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
Ch. 74, Sch. I     Ch. 75, Sch. I
Ch. 74, Sch. III   Ch. 74, Sch. II
Ch. 74, Sch. IV    Ch. 74, Sch. III
Ch. 74, Sch. V     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
Ch. 74, Sch. VI    Ch. 74, Sch. V
Ch. 74, Sch. VII   Ch. 74, Sch. VI
Ch. 74, Sch. VIII  Ch. 74, Sch. VII
Ch. 74, Sch. IX    Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
Ch. 74, Sch. X     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
Ch. 74, Sch. XI    Ch. 74, Sch. X
Ch. 74, Sch. XII   Ch. 74, Sch. XI
75.01              73.01
75.02              73.02
75.03              73.03
75.04              73.04
75.05              73.05
75.06              73.06
75.99              73.99
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.15              90.15
90.16              90.16
90.17              90.17
90.18              90.18
90.19              90.19
90.20              90.20
90.21              90.21
90.22              90.22
90.23              90.23
90.24              90.24
90.25              90.25
90.26              90.26
90.27              90.27
90.28              90.28
90.29              90.29
90.30              90.30
90.31              90.31
90.32              90.32
90.33              90.33
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
91.04              91.04
91.15              91.15
91.16              91.16
91.17              91.17
91.18              91.18
91.19              91.19
91.20              91.20
91.21              91.21
91.22              91.22
92.10              92.01
92.11              92.02
92.12              92.03
92.13              92.04
92.99              92.99
93.105             93.01
93.106             93.02
93.115             93.15
93.116             93.16
93.117             93.17
93.118             93.18
93.999             93.99
94.01              94.01
94.02              94.02
94.03              94.03
94.04              94.04
94.05              94.05
94.06              94.06
94.07              94.07
94.99              94.99
95.01              95.01
95.02              95.02
95.10              95.15
95.11              95.16
95.12              95.17
95.13              95.18
95.20              95.30
95.21              95.31
95.22              95.32
95.30              95.45
95.31              95.46
95.32              95.47
95.33              95.48
95.34              95.49
95.99              95.99
96.01              96.01
96.02              96.02
96.03              96.03
96.04              96.04
96.05              96.05
96.06              96.06
96.07              96.07
96.08              96.08
96.09              96.09
96.10              96.10
96.11              96.11
96.12              96.12
96.13              96.13
96.14              96.14
96.40              96.25
96.41              96.26
96.42              96.27
96.43              96.28
96.44              96.29
96.99              96.99
Ch. 96, App. A     Ch. 96, App. A
97.001             97.001
97.002             97.002
97.015             97.015
97.016             97.016
97.017             97.017
97.018             97.018
97.019             97.019
97.020             97.020
97.021             97.021
97.022             97.022
97.023             97.023
97.024             97.024
97.025             97.025
97.026             97.026
97.027             97.027
97.035             97.040
97.036             97.041
97.037             97.042
97.038             97.043
97.039             97.044
97.040             97.045
97.041             97.046
97.042             97.047
97.043             97.048
97.044             97.049
97.045             97.050
97.046             97.051
97.060             97.065
97.075             97.080
97.076             97.081
97.077             97.082
97.078             97.083
97.079             97.084
97.080             97.085
97.081             97.086
97.090             97.100
97.091             97.101
97.110             97.115
97.111             97.116
97.112             97.117
97.113             97.118
97.114             97.119
97.125             97.130
97.126             97.131
97.127             97.132
97.128             97.133
97.129             97.134
97.130             97.135
97.131             97.136
97.132             97.137
97.133             97.138
97.134             97.139
97.135             97.140
97.999             97.999
98.01              98.01
98.02              98.02
98.03              98.03
98.04              98.04
98.15              98.15
98.16              98.16
98.17              98.17
98.18              98.18
98.19              98.19
98.20              98.20
98.21              98.21
98.22              98.22
98.99              98.99
99.01              99.01
99.02              99.02
99.03              99.03
99.04              99.04
99.05              99.05
99.06              99.06
99.07              99.07
99.08              99.08
99.09              99.09
99.10              99.10
99.11              99.11
99.12              99.12
99.99              99.99
100.01             100.01
100.02             100.02
100.03             100.03
100.04             100.04
100.05             100.05
100.06             100.06
100.07             100.07
100.08             100.08
100.09             100.09
100.99             100.99
101.01             101.01
101.02             101.02
101.03             101.03
101.04             101.04
101.05             101.05
101.06             101.06
101.07             101.07
101.08             101.08
101.09             101.09
101.99             101.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.001
111.02             111.002
111.03             111.003
111.04             111.004
111.05             111.005
111.06             111.006
111.10             111.020
111.11             111.021
111.12             111.022
111.13             111.023
111.14             111.024
111.15             111.025
111.16             111.026
111.17             111.027
111.18             111.028
111.19             111.029
111.20             111.030
111.21             111.031
111.22             111.032
111.23             111.033
111.24             111.034
111.25             111.035
111.26             111.036
111.27             111.037
111.28             111.038
111.29             111.039
111.40             111.050
111.41             111.051
111.42             111.052
111.43             111.053
111.44             111.054
111.45             111.055
111.46             111.056
111.47             111.057
111.48             111.058
111.49             111.059
111.50             111.060
111.51             111.061
111.52             111.062
111.53             111.063
111.60             111.075
111.99             111.999
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.99             113.99
114.01             114.001
114.02             114.002
114.03             114.003
114.04             114.004
114.05             114.005
114.06             114.006
114.07             114.007
114.15             114.020
114.16             114.021
114.30             114.035
114.31             114.036
114.32             114.037
114.45             114.050
114.46             114.051
114.47             114.052
114.60             114.065
114.61             114.066
114.62             114.067
114.63             114.068
114.64             114.069
114.65             114.070
114.80             114.085
114.81             114.086
114.82             114.087
115.01             115.01
115.02             115.02
115.03             115.03
115.04             115.04
115.05             115.05
115.06             115.06
115.07             115.07
115.08             115.08
115.09             115.09
115.10             115.10
115.11             115.11
115.12             115.12
115.13             115.13
116.01             116.01
116.02             116.02
116.03             116.03
116.04             116.04
116.05             116.05
116.06             116.06
116.07             116.07
116.08             116.08
116.99             116.99
117.01             117.01
117.02             117.02
117.99             117.99
118.01             118.01
118.02             118.02
118.03             118.03
118.04             118.04
118.05             118.05
118.06             118.06
118.07             118.07
118.08             118.08
118.09             118.09
118.20             118.20
118.21             118.21
118.22             118.22
118.23             118.23
118.35             118.35
118.36             118.36
118.37             118.37
118.38             118.38
118.39             118.39
118.99             118.99
120.25             119.01
120.26             119.02
120.27             119.03
120.28             119.04
120.29             119.05
120.40             119.20
120.65             119.35
120.66             119.36
120.67             119.37
120.68             119.38
120.69             119.39
120.70             119.40
120.71             119.41
120.72             119.42
120.73             119.43
120.74             119.44
120.75             119.45
120.85             119.60
120.86             119.61
120.99             119.99
121.01             120.01
121.02             120.02
121.15             120.15
121.16             120.16
121.17             120.17
121.18             120.18
121.99             120.99
122.01             121.01
122.02             121.02
122.03             121.03
122.04             121.04
130.01             130.01
130.02             130.02
130.03             130.03
130.15             130.15
130.16             130.16
130.17             130.17
130.18             130.18
131.02             131.01
131.03             131.02
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
151.01             151.01
151.02             151.02
151.03             151.03
151.15             151.15
151.16             151.16
151.17             151.17
151.18             151.18
151.19             151.19
151.20             151.20
151.21             151.21
151.22             151.22
151.23             151.23
151.24             151.24
151.25             151.25
151.26             151.26
151.27             151.27
151.40             151.40
151.41             151.41
151.42             151.42
151.43             151.43
151.44             151.44
151.55             151.55
151.56             151.56
151.57             151.57
151.58             151.58
151.59             151.59
151.60             151.60
151.61             151.61
151.62             151.62
151.63             151.63
151.99             151.99
152.01             152.01
152.02             152.02
152.03             152.03
153.01             153.01
153.02             153.02
153.03             153.03
153.04             153.04
153.05             153.05
153.06             153.06
153.07             153.07
153.08             153.08
153.09             153.09
153.10             153.10
153.11             153.11
153.12             153.12
153.25             153.25
153.26             153.26
153.27             153.27
153.35             153.40
153.36             153.41
153.37             153.42
153.38             153.43
153.39             153.44
153.40             153.45
153.41             153.46
153.50             153.60
153.51             153.61
153.52             153.62
153.53             153.63
153.54             153.64
153.55             153.65
153.56             153.66
153.57             153.67
153.99             153.99
154.01             154.001
154.02             154.002
154.03             154.003
154.10             154.015
154.11             154.016
154.12             154.017
154.13             154.018
154.14             154.019
154.15             154.020
154.16             154.021
154.17             154.022
154.25             154.035
154.26             154.036
154.27             154.037
154.28             154.038
154.29             154.039
154.35             154.050
154.36             154.051
154.37             154.052
154.38             154.053
154.39             154.054
154.40             154.055
154.41             154.056
154.42             154.057
154.43             154.058
154.44             154.059
154.45             154.060
154.55             154.075
154.56             154.076
154.57             154.077
154.58             154.078
154.59             154.079
154.60             154.080
154.61             154.081
154.62             154.082
154.63             154.083
154.64             154.084
154.99             154.999
155.01             155.01
155.02             155.02
155.03             155.03
155.04             155.04
155.05             155.05
156.01             156.01
157.001            157.001
157.002            157.002
157.003            157.003
157.004            157.004
157.005            157.005
157.006            157.006
157.015            157.020
157.016            157.021
157.017            157.022
157.018            157.023
157.019            157.024
157.030            157.035
157.031            157.036
157.032            157.037
157.033            157.038
157.034            157.039
157.035            157.040
157.036            157.041
157.037            157.042
157.038            157.043
157.039            157.044
157.040            157.045
157.041            157.046
157.042            157.047
157.043            157.048
157.044            157.049
157.045            157.050
157.046            157.051
157.047            157.052
157.060            157.065
157.061            157.066
157.062            157.067
157.063            157.068
157.064            157.069
157.065            157.070
157.066            157.071
157.067            157.072
157.080            157.085
157.081            157.086
157.082            157.087
157.083            157.088
157.084            157.089
157.085            157.090
157.086            157.091
157.095            157.105
157.096            157.106
157.097            157.107
157.098            157.108
157.099            157.109
157.100            157.110
157.110            158.01
157.111            158.02
157.112            158.03
157.113            158.04
157.114            158.05
157.115            158.06
157.116            158.07
157.117            158.08
157.118            158.09
157.130            157.125
157.131            157.126
157.132            157.127
157.133            157.128
157.134            157.129
157.135            157.130
157.145            157.145
157.146            157.146
157.147            157.147
157.160            157.160
157.161            157.161
157.162            157.162
157.163            157.163
157.164            157.164
157.165            157.165
157.166            157.166
157.175            157.180
157.176            157.181
157.177            157.182
157.178            157.183
157.190            157.195
157.191            157.196
157.192            157.197
157.193            157.198
157.194            157.199
157.195            157.200
157.196            157.201
157.197            157.202
157.198            157.203
157.199            157.204
157.200            157.205
157.200.1          157.206
157.201            157.207
157.202            157.208
157.210            157.220
157.211            157.221
157.212            157.222
157.213            157.223
157.214            157.224
157.215            157.225
157.225            157.240
157.226            157.241
157.227            157.242
157.228            157.243
157.229            157.244
157.230            157.245
157.231            157.246
157.232            157.247
157.233            157.248
157.234            157.249
157.245            157.260
157.246            157.261
157.247            157.262
157.248            157.263
157.249            157.264
157.250            157.265
157.251            157.266
157.252            157.267
157.265            157.280
157.266            157.281
157.267            157.282
157.280            157.295
157.281            157.296
157.282            157.297
157.283            157.298
157.284            157.299
157.285            157.300
157.286            157.301
157.287            157.302
157.999            158.99
159.01             159.01
159.02             159.02
159.03             159.03
159.04             159.04
159.05             159.05
159.06             159.06
159.07             159.07
159.08             159.08
159.99             159.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
4-70     6-9-1970               35.30
12, 2021 6-10-2021              157.183
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description                  Code Section
-                  - -                                     Ch. 74, Sch. IV
-                  - -                                     TSO XVII
-                  - -                                     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
-                  - -                                     Ch. 74, Sch. X
-                  - -                                     Ch. 74, Sch. XII
-                  - -                                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
-                  - -                                     Ch. 75, Sch. VII
-                  - -                                     Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
-                  - -                                     Ch. 75, Sch. IX
-                  12-6-1932                               TSO XVII
12-1939            2-7-1939                                70.02
13-1939            2-7-1939                                130.02
15-1943            4-13-1943                               TSO XVII
6-1945             2-13-1945                               TSO XVII
17-1948            - -                                     TSO XVII
30-1948            7-27-1948                               TSO XVII
31-1948            8-10-1948                               TSO XVII
37-1949            7-12-1949                               51.02
13-1950            3-7-1950                                35.15
19-1950            - -1950                                 131.01
52-1950            7-11-1950                               TSO XVII
71-1950            10-3-1950                               35.17
13-1951            3-6-1951                                151.15
9-1952             2-12-1952                               51.01
22-1953            5-26-1953                               112.02
43-1953            11-24-1953                              TSO XVII
46-1953            12-15-1953                              72.040
15-1954            5-25-1954                               72.005;
                                                            72.008
                                                            98.02;
20-1954            9-24-1954                               98.04;
                                                            151.03
15-1955            3-22-1955                               72.136
11-1956            - -                                     TSO XVII
46-1957            8-13-1957                               97.048
89-1958            12-1-1958                               TSO XVII
12-1959            3-23-1959                               TSO XVII
14                 3-30-1959                               Ch. 74, Sch. II
39-1959            7-27-1959                               51.15;
                                                            51.17
24-1960            6-28-1960                               TSO XVII
                                                            154.001;
                                                            154.003;
                                                            154.015;
                                                            154.022;
                                                            154.035;
27-1960            7-12-1960                               154.039;
                                                            154.050;
                                                            154.060;
                                                            154.075;
                                                            154.084;
                                                            154.999
55-1960            10-29-1960                              154.056
56-1960            10-29-1960                              TSO XVII
63-1960            11-22-1960                              TSO XVII
10-1961            2-28-1961                               118.01;
                                                            118.09
17-1961            3-28-1961                               TSO XVII
8-1962             - -                                     TSO XVII
11-1962            - -                                     TSO XVII
19-1962            - -1962                                 TSO XVII
28-1962            4-23-1962                               93.15
32-1962            6-24-1962                               97.080;
                                                            97.085
53-1962            8-13-1962                               TSO XVII
59-1962            9-10-1962                               72.006;
                                                            72.999
29-1963            5-27-1963                               35.30
45-1963            - -                                     TSO XVII
46-1963            10-28-1963                              TSO XVII
9-1964             3-9-1964                                72.999
13-1964            4-13-1964                               TSO XVII
33-1964            - -                                     TSO XVII
23-1965            11-8-1965                               97.085
2-1966             1-10-1966                               TSO XVII
18-1966            5-9-1966                                TSO XVII
1-1967             1-9-1967                                35.19
8-1967             3-13-1967                               130.15
11-1967            3-27-1967                               154.022
26-1967            9-26-1967                               37.021;
                                                            37.022
31-1967            11-27-1967                              154.022
32-1967            11-27-1967                              97.086
21-1968            5-27-1968                               35.19
4-1969             1-27-1969                               35.15
6-1969             2-4-1969                                TSO XVII
16-1969            6-23-1969                               TSO XVII
1-1970             - -1970                                 TSO X
33-1970            - -                                     TSO XVII
2-1971             2-8-1971                                35.22
4-1971             3-8-1971                                33.01;
                                                            34.01
17-1971            5-10-1971                               TSO XVII
25-1972            6-6-1972                                TSO XVII
                                                            93.15;
31-1972            7-5-1972                                93.17;
                                                            93.18
43-1972            9-19-1972                               35.20
12-1973            4-3-1973                                34.04
32-1973            - -                                     TSO XVII
42-1973            - -1973                                 TSO XVII
6-1974             2-5-1974                                35.01
9-1974             - -                                     TSO XVII
24-1974            7-2-1974                                30.01;
                                                            35.02
28-1974            7-19-1974                               34.04
30-1974            8-20-1974                               151.16;
                                                            151.25
6-1975             4-1-1975                                34.04
3-1976             1-15-1976                               TSO XVII
6-1976             1-20-1976                               TSO XVII
16-1976            2-19-1976                               TSO XVII
26-1976            4-1-1976                                TSO XVII
43-1976            8-19-1976                               31.001
53-1976            10-21-1976                              97.083
2                  1-6-1977                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
4-1977             1-20-1977                               TSO X
8-1977             2-17-1977                               TSO X
12                 3-3-1977                                Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
17                 4-7-1977                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
18-1977            4-7-1977                                34.04
23-1977            4-21-1977                               TSO XVII
24-1977            4-14-1977                               TSO V
29-1977            5-12-1977                               TSO XIII
41-1977            7-7-1977                                TSO XIV
46-1977            7-21-1977                               TSO XIII
47                 7-21-1977                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
48-1977            7-21-1977                               TSO VII
49-1977            8-4-1977                                TSO V
56-1977            9-15-1977                               TSO XII
57-1977            9-15-1977                               TSO XIII
63                 10-6-1977                               Ch. 74, Sch. IV
64-1977            10-6-1977                               TSO VII
69-1977            10-18-1977                              TSO XVII
70-1977            11-3-1977                               TSO I
71-1977            11-3-1977                               TSO I
72-1977            11-3-1977                               TSO I
76                 12-15-1977                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
81                 12-15-1977                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
13-1978            3-16-1978                               TSO XVII
16                 3-16-1978                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
17-1978            3-16-1978                               72.009
30-1978            5-18-1978                               TSO XIV
44-1978            7-6-1978                                TSO XVII
45-1978            7-6-1978                                TSO XVII
46-1978            7-6-1978                                154.999
52-1978            8-3-1978                                TSO IX
54-1978            8-17-1978                               TSO XIII
57-1978            8-17-1978                               TSO XI
58                 8-17-1978                               Ch. 74, Sch. XII
66                 9-7-1978                                Ch. 75, Sch. VII
69-1978            10-5-1978                               TSO XIV
71-1978            10-19-1978                              TSO XVII
73-1978            11-2-1978                               TSO XIV
74-1978            11-2-1978                               TSO V
76-1978            12-7-1978                               TSO VIII
                                                            72.100;
77-1978            12-7-1978                               72.105;
                                                            72.999;
2                  1-4-1979                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
8-1979             2-15-1979                               TSO XIII
10-1979            3-1-1979                                TSO XIII
12-1979            3-15-1979                               34.04
13-1979            4-19-1979                               95.30;
                                                            95.32
21-1979            5-31-1979                               TSO V
23                 6-21-1979                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
38-1979            9-6-1979                                TSO X
40                 10-4-1979                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
45-1979            11-15-1979                              TSO XVII
46-1979            11-15-1979                              TSO XVII
50-1979            12-6-1979                               TSO X
52-1979            12-6-1979                               TSO XVII
53-1979            12-20-1979                              TSO VI
56-1979            12-20-1979                              TSO I
7-1980             1-24-1980                               TSO IX;
                                                            TSO XIII
8-1980             2-7-1980                                TSO IX
10-1980            2-7-1980                                TSO XVII
11-1980            2-7-1980                                TSO XVII
12-1980            2-7-1980                                TSO XVII
18-1980            2-21-1980                               TSO VII
20                 2-21-1980                               Ch. 74, Sch. VII
23-1980            3-6-1980                                TSO XVII
24                 3-20-1980                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
26-1980            3-20-1980                               TSO XVII
27                 3-20-1980                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
28-1980            3-20-1980                               TSO XVII
                                                            72.085;
34-1980            4-17-1980                               72.086;
                                                            72.999
37-1980            4-17-1980                               34.04
40-1980            5-1-1980                                TSO I
41-1980            5-1-1980                                TSO XIII
43-1980            5-1-1980                                TSO XVII
43A                5-1-1980                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
46-1980            5-22-1980                               112.02
48-1980            5-29-1980                               TSO XVII
55-1980            6-19-1980                               TSO XVII
56-1980            6-19-1980                               TSO XI
57-1980            6-13-1980                               TSO XVII
58-1980            6-19-1980                               TSO XIII
59-1980            6-19-1980                               TSO XIII
60-1980            6-19-1980                               TSO XVII
61                 6-19-1980                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
71-1980            7-17-1980                               TSO XI
80-1980            8-7-1980                                TSO XIII
83-1980            8-21-1980                               TSO XVII
84-1980            8-21-1980                               TSO I
89-1980            9-4-1980                                TSO VII
91-1980            9-4-1980                                TSO V
96-1980            9-18-1980                               TSO IX
101-1980           10-2-1980                               72.137
104-1980           10-16-1980                              TSO XVII
105                11-6-1980                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
106-1980           11-6-1980                               TSO VII
108-1980           11-20-1980                              32.01
109                11-20-1980                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
111                12-4-1980                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
112-1980           12-4-1980                               117.01;
                                                            117.02
117-1980           12-18-1980                              TSO VII
1                  1-6-1981                                Ch. 75, Sch. VII
8-1981             1-22-1981                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI;
                                                            TSO XVII
9                  2-17-1981                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
14-1981            3-3-1981                                TSO XVII
25-1981            4-7-1981                                TSO X
27-1981            4-7-1981                                TSO XVII
30-1981            4-7-1981                                34.04
36-1981            4-21-1981                               TSO XVII
37-1981            4-21-1981                               TSO XVII
44-1981            5-5-1981                                TSO XVII
45                 5-19-1981                               Ch. 74, Sch. VII
53-1981            5-20-1981                               TSO X
55                 5-21-1981                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
58-1981            6-2-1981                                TSO XVII
60-1981            - -1981                                 TSO XVII
83-1981            9-1-1981                                TSO XVII
86                 8-21-1981                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
89-1981            9-15-1981                               TSO XVII
98                 10-20-1981                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
106-1981           11-4-1981                               TSO XVII
109-1981           11-17-1981                              TSO XVII
121                12-15-1981                              Ch. 74, Sch. VII
12-1982            3-4-1982                                TSO X
14-1982            3-4-1982                                154.002;
                                                            154.022
15-1982            3-29-1982                               TSO X
21-1982            4-15-1982                               34.04
25-1982            5-16-1982                               TSO XVII
27-1982            5-7-1982                                TSO XVII
28-1982            5-6-1982                                37.003
31-1982            5-20-1982                               30.04
32-1982            5-20-1982                               TSO XVII
47-1982            6-3-1982                                97.041;
                                                            97.046
48-1982            6-3-1982                                72.010;
                                                            72.999
52-1982            6-17-1982                               TSO XVII
54-1982            7-1-1982                                TSO XVII
66-1982            7-15-1982                               TSO XVII
67-1982            7-15-1982                               TSO XVII
72-1982            8-5-1982                                TSO XVII
89-1982            9-15-1982                               TSO V
95-1982            10-7-1982                               TSO XVII
103-1982           11-4-1982                               TSO XVII
115-1982           12-9-1982                               TSO XIV
116-1982           12-9-1982                               TSO XIV
119                12-9-1982                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
1-1983             - -                                     TSO XVII
6-1983             1-6-1983                                TSO XVII
33-1983            2-17-1983                               TSO XVII
35                 3-3-1983                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
36-1983            3-3-1983                                TSO XVII
37-1983            3-3-1983                                93.17;
                                                            93.18
77                 6-2-1983                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
79-1983            6-2-1983                                TSO XVII
105-1983           7-21-1983                               TSO IV
115-1983           8-18-1983                               97.081;
                                                            97.085
131-1983           9-29-1983                               TSO XVII
134-1983           - -                                     TSO XVII
136-1983           10-6-1983                               120.01;
                                                            120.02
144-1983           10-20-1983                              TSO XVII
145-1983           10-20-1983                              Ch. 74, Sch. VII;
                                                            Ch. 74, Sch. X
148                11-3-1983                               Ch. 75, Sch. II;
                                                            Ch. 75, Sch. VI
149-1983           11-3-1983                               TSO XVII
150                11-3-1983                               Ch. 74, Sch. X
155                11-17-1983                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
10-1984            2-11-1984                               10.17
14-1984            2-23-1984                               TSO XVII
19-1984            3-6-1984                                TSO XIV
24-1984            4-3-1984                                TSO XVII
27-1984            4-17-1984                               TSO XVII
28                 4-17-1984                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
45-1984            5-22-1984                               TSO V
56-1984            7-19-1984                               TSO XVII
59-1984            - -                                     TSO XVII
70-1984            6-28-1984                               TSO XVII
80                 8-7-1984                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
81                 3-7-1984                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
89-1984            8-24-1984                               TSO XVII
106                10-2-1984                               Ch. 75, Sch. VII
107                10-16-1984                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
112-1984           10-16-1984                              31.015;
                                                            31.017
114-1984           11-7-1984                               72.008
116-1984           11-7-1984                               TSO XVII
117-1984           - -                                     TSO XVII
120-1984           11-7-1984                               TSO IV
120-1984           11-7-1984                               TSO XVII
121-1984           11-19-1984                              TSO XVII
125-1984           11-19-1984                              TSO V
136-1984           11-27-1984                              TSO XVII
137-1984           11-27-1984                              TSO IV
143-1984           12-18-1984                              TSO XVII
153-1984           12-26-1984                              37.005
154-1984           12-26-1984                              TSO XVII
155-1984           12-26-1984                              TSO XVII
9-1985             2-19-1985                               37.004
10-1985            2-19-1984                               TSO XIV
21-1985            3-19-1985                               TSO XVII
34-1985            4-16-1985                               TSO XVII
39-1985            4- -1985                                TSO XVII
49-1985            5-13-1985                               TSO XVII
54                 5-21-1985                               Ch. 75, Sch. II
61-1985            6-4-1985                                TSO XVII
63-1985            6-4-1985                                TSO XVII
64-1985            6-4-1985                                72.011
72                 6-18-1985                               Ch. 75, Sch. I;
                                                            Ch. 75, Sch. VI
83-1985            7-16-1985                               93.01;
                                                            93.02
84-1985            - -                                     TSO XVII
87-1985            7-16-1985                               TSO XVII
89-1985            7-16-1985                               TSO XVII
98-1985            8-9-1985                                72.055
100-1985           8-9-1985                                TSO XVII
101-1985           8-9-1985                                TSO XVII
102-1985           8-9-1985                                93.16
107-1985           9-10-1985                               TSO XIII
109-1985           9-17-1985                               TSO VII
110-1985           10-1-1985                               TSO III
111-1985           10-1-1985                               TSO VII
112-1985           10-1-1985                               TSO III
114                10-1-1985                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
123-1985           10-31-1985                              TSO XIII
126-1985           11-6-1985                               TSO XVII
131-1985           11-19-1985                              TSO XI
132-1985           11-19-1985                              TSO VII
137-1985           12-4-1985                               TSO I
139-1985           12-4-1985                               TSO XI
7A-1986            1-30-1986                               TSO XIII
8-1986             2-4-1986                                TSO XI
9-1986             2-4-1986                                TSO XVII
10-1986            2-4-1986                                TSO XVII
15-1986            2-18-1986                               TSO V
18-1986            3-18-1986                               TSO VII
19-1986            3-18-1986                               TSO XIII
20-1986            3-18-1986                               TSO XI
21-1986            3-18-1986                               TSO XI
24-1986            4-9-1986                                TSO XIV
34                 5-20-1986                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
40-1986            6-3-1986                                TSO XVII
41-1986            6-17-1986                               TSO III
44-1986            6-3-1986                                TSO XIII
46-1986            6-17-1986                               TSO III
47-1986            6-17-1986                               TSO XI
48-1986            6-17-1986                               TSO XVII
49-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
50-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
51-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
52-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
53-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
54-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
55-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XIII
56-1986            6-18-1986                               TSO XVII
62-1986            7-15-1986                               TSO III
63-1986            7-15-1986                               TSO XI
68-1986            7-15-1986                               TSO XI
72-1986            - -                                     TSO XVII
73-1986            8-5-1986                                72.010
74-1986            8-5-1986                                TSO IX
75-1986            8-19-1986                               TSO XI
80, 1986           - -                                     155.03
84-1986            9-2-1986                                TSO XVII
85-1986            9-2-1986                                TSO XVII
86-1986            9-2-1986                                TSO I
90-1986            9-9-1986                                37.005
95-1986            9-9-1986                                TSO XVII
96-1986            9-16-1986                               TSO XVII
97-1986            9-16-1986                               TSO XVII
                                                            157.001;
                                                            157.006;
                                                            157.020;
                                                            157.024;
                                                            157.035;
                                                            157.052;
                                                            157.065;
                                                            157.072;
                                                            157.085;
                                                            157.091;
                                                            157.105;
                                                            157.110;
                                                            157.125;
                                                            157.130;
                                                            157.145;
101-1986           10-7-1986                               157.147;
                                                            157.160;
                                                            157.164;
                                                            157.180;
                                                            157.183;
                                                            157.195;
                                                            157.204;
                                                            157.206;
                                                            157.220;
                                                            157.223;
                                                            157.240;
                                                            157.244;
                                                            157.246;
                                                            157.249;
                                                            157.260;
                                                            157.267
101-1986, Art. VII 10-7-1986                               TSO XVII
1-1987             - -1987                                 TSO XVII
9-1987             1-20-1987                               TSO XVI
10-1987            1-20-1987                               TSO XVI
14-1987            1-20-1987                               TSO XVII
15-1987            1-20-1987                               157.165;
                                                            157.166
19-1987            2-17-1987                               TSO XI
20-1987            2-17-1987                               TSO XVII
21-1987            2-17-1987                               TSO XIII
23-1987            2-18-1987                               TSO XVI
24-1987            2-18-1987                               157.183
30-1987            3-17-1987                               TSO VII
32-1987            3-17-1987                               TSO XI
35-1987            4-21-1987                               TSO XIV
38-1987            4-21-1987                               TSO VII
40-1987            5-5-1987                                TSO XVI
43-1987            5-5-1987                                TSO XIII
46-1987            5-5-1987                                TSO XI
48                 5-19-1987                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
50-1987            5-19-1987                               TSO XIV
51-1987            5-19-1987                               TSO XI
55-1987            6-16-1987                               TSO II
56-1987            6-16-1987                               TSO XVI
57-1987            6-16-1987                               TSO XI
59-1987            6-18-1987                               TSO V
63-1987            6-16-1987                               TSO III
76-1987            8-4-1987                                TSO III
77-1987            8-18-1987                               35.20
92-1987            9-1-1987                                37.022
93-1987            9-1-1987                                TSO XIII
94-1987            9-1-1987                                TSO XIV
96-1987            9-1-1987                                71.55
98                 9-15-1987                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
108                10-6-1987                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
110-1987           10-20-1987                              TSO XI
115-1987           10-20-1987                              TSO XVI
117-1987           10-21-1987                              TSO XVII
119-1987           10-21-1987                              TSO XVII
120-1987           10-21-1987                              TSO VII
126-1987           11-17-1987                              TSO XI
127                11-17-1987                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
129-1987           11-17-1987                              TSO IV
130-1987           11-17-1987                              TSO XI
132                12-1-1987                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
133                12-1-1987                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
135-1987           12-1-1987                               TSO I
138                12-8-1987                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
143-1987           12-16-1987                              TSO XVII
144                12-16-1987                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
145-1987           12-16-1987                              TSO XVII
146-1987           12-16-1987                              TSO XVII
147-1987           12-16-1987                              TSO XVII
2-1988             1-19-1988                               TSO IV
4-1988             1-19-1988                               TSO XIII
7-1988             2-2-1988                                TSO XVI
8-1988             2-2-1988                                TSO XI
12-1988            2-2-1988                                TSO I
13-1988            2-2-1988                                TSO XVI
14-1988            2-2-1988                                TSO VII
15-1988            2-16-1988                               TSO XIV
21-1988            4-19-1988                               35.23
22-1988            4-19-1988                               TSO XIV
36-1988            5-10-1988                               TSO IV
38-1988            5-10-1988                               37.005
41-1988            5-10-1988                               TSO XVII
46-1988            6-7-1988                                TSO III
49-1988            6-7-1988                                TSO XI
50-1988            6-7-1988                                TSO XVII
52-1988            6-9-1988                                TSO XVI
53-1988            6-9-1988                                TSO XIV
54-1988            6-9-1988                                Ch. 74, Sch. IV
56-1988            6-14-1988                               TSO XVII
61-1988            7-5-1988                                TSO IX
63-1988            7-19-1988                               TSO XVII
64-1988            7-19-1988                               131.02
65-1988            7-19-1988                               TSO IV
68-1988            7-19-1988                               TSO V
71-1988            8-2-1988                                157.003
71-1988            8-2-1988                                TSO XVII
72-1988            8-2-1988                                TSO XVII
75-1988            8-2-1988                                TSO XVII
76-1988            8-2-1988                                TSO XVI
80-1988            8-11-1988                               TSO XIII
81A-1988           8-16-1988                               TSO XVI
82-1988            8-16-1988                               TSO XVII
84-1988            8-16-1988                               TSO XVII
85-1988            8-16-1988                               TSO XVII
96-1988            9-12-1988                               TSO VII
100-1988           9-12-1988                               TSO XVII
103-1988           9-12-1988                               72.087;
                                                            72.999
104-1988           9-12-1988                               155.02
86-1988            9-26-1988                               TSO XVII
109-1988           10-18-1988                              TSO IX
115-1988           10-18-1988                              TSO XIII
116-1988           10-18-1988                              157.051
117-1988           11-1-1988                               TSO XVI
119-1988           11-1-1988                               72.012
126-1988           11-3-1988                               TSO XIII
128-1988           11-15-1988                              TSO XVII
130-1988           11-15-1988                              TSO XI
135-1988           11-15-1988                              TSO XIII
139-1988           12-6-1988                               TSO XI
142-1988           12-6-1988                               TSO XI;
                                                            TSO XVII
149-1988           12-8-1988                               TSO XI
150-1988           12-8-1988                               TSO V
151                12-8-1988                               Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
156-1988           12-20-1988                              TSO XI
157-1988           12-22-1988                              TSO III
166-1988           12-22-1988                              TSO XVII
12-1989            2-21-1989                               TSO XIV
17-1989            3-7-1989                                TSO XV
18-1989            3-7-1989                                TSO XV
19-1989            8-15-1989                               TSO XVII
20                 3-7-1989                                Ch. 74, Sch. XI
21                 3-7-1989                                Ch. 74, Sch. X
22                 3-7-1989                                Ch. 74, Sch. XI
22A                3-7-1989                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
26                 3-7-1989                                Ch. 74, Sch. VII
27-1989            3-7-1989                                TSO XIV
33-1989            3-21-1989                               TSO XVI
37-1989            3-21-1989                               TSO XIV
38-1989            4-4-1989                                TSO XVII
40-1989            4-4-1989                                TSO XVII
42-1989            4-4-1989                                TSO XI
43-1989            4-4-1989                                TSO XV
45-1989            4-4-1989                                TSO XVII
50, 1989           - -                                     155.03
52-1989            5-16-1989                               TSO XVI
53-1989            5-16-1989                               TSO XVI
54-1989            5-16-1989                               TSO XVI
55-1989            5-16-1989                               TSO XI
63-1989            6-15-1989                               TSO XVI
75-1989            6-27-1989                               TSO XI
76-1989            6-27-1989                               TSO XI
81-1989            8-8-1989                                TSO VII
83-1989            8-8-1989                                TSO II
89-1989            8-15-1989                               TSO I
90-1989            8-15-1989                               TSO XVII
93-1989            9-5-1989                                118.35
94                 9-5-1989                                Ch. 74, Sch. III
96-1989            9-19-1989                               TSO XVII
98-1989            9-18-1989                               TSO XVII
110-1989           10-17-1989                              TSO XVII
113-1989           10-17-1989                              TSO XVII
116-1989           10-17-1989                              TSO V
124-1989           11-21-1989                              TSO XI
126-1989           11-21-1989                              157.086 
                                                            157.088
128                11-21-1989                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
129                11-29-1989                              Ch. 74, Sch. XII
136-1989           12-5-1989                               TSO XVII
139                12-19-1989                              Ch. 74, Sch. IX
147-1989           12-22-1989                              TSO X
1-1990             1-16-1990                               71.56;
                                                            Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2-1990             1-16-1990                               72.135
7-1990             2-20-1990                               TSO XVII
11-1990            - -                                     TSO XVII
12-1990            3-6-1990                                TSO I
15-1990            3-6-1990                                TSO XVI
16-1990            3-20-1990                               TSO XVI
17-1990            3-20-1990                               TSO IX
18-90              3-20-1990                               157.208
19-1990            3-20-1990                               TSO XVII
21-1990            3-20-1990                               TSO XI
26-1990            4-3-1990                                71.04
27-1990            4-3-1990                                TSO XIII
42-1990            5-15-1990                               TSO XVII
45-1990            6-5-1990                                TSO XI
47-1990            6-5-1990                                TSO XVII
51-1990            6-14-1990                               TSO VII
53                 6-14-1990                               Ch. 74, Sch. VII
54-1990            6-14-1990                               TSO VII
55-1990            6-14-1990                               TSO XVII
62-1990            6-29-1990                               TSO XVII
68-1990            7-17-1990                               TSO XVII
70-1990            7-17-1990                               TSO XI
71-1990            7-17-1990                               TSO XVI
75-1990            8-7-1990                                TSO V;
                                                            TSO XVII
82-1990            8-7-1990                                TSO XVII
84-1990            8-7-1990                                TSO XIV
86-1990            8-7-1990                                TSO XI
87-1990            8-15-1990                               TSO XIV
91-1990            8-15-1990                               TSO XVII
108-1990           9-4-1990                                TSO XIII
110-1990           9-18-1990                               TSO IX
111-1990           9-18-1990                               TSO IX
113-1990           10-2-1990                               TSO XVII
115-1990           10-2-1990                               TSO XVII
116-1990           10-2-1990                               TSO XVII
117-1990           10-2-1990                               TSO IX
120-1990           10-2-1990                               TSO XIII
121-1990           10-2-1990                               TSO IX
123-1990           10-16-1990                              TSO IX
124-1990           10-16-1990                              TSO IX
125-1990           10-16-1990                              TSO IX
129-1990           11-5-1990                               TSO IX
132-1990           11-5-1990                               TSO IX
135-1990           11-12-1990                              TSO XI
136-1990           11-12-1990                              TSO I
138-1990           11-12-1990                              TSO XVII
139-1990           11-12-1990                              TSO I
140-1990           11-12-1990                              TSO XVII
142-1990           11-19-1990                              TSO XVI
143-1990           11-19-1990                              TSO XIV
144-1990           11-19-1990                              157.183
146-1990           11-27-1990                              TSO XIII
147-1990           11-27-1990                              TSO XIII
149-1990           12-4-1990                               TSO XVI
152-1990           12-18-1990                              TSO XVII
153-1990           12-18-1990                              TSO XVII
154-1990           12-18-1990                              TSO XVII
156-1990           12-18-1990                              TSO XIII
2-1991             1-3-1991                                TSO XVII
3-1991             1-3-1991                                TSO VII
4-1991             1-8-1991                                TSO XI
5-1991             1-8-1991                                TSO XVII
7-1991             1-15-1991                               TSO III
10-1991            2-5-1991                                TSO XVII
12-1991            2-19-1991                               155.01
13-1991            2-19-1991                               151.01
17-1991            2-19-1991                               TSO XVII
18-1991            2-26-1991                               TSO XVII
19                 2-26-1991                               Ch. 74, Sch. IX
169                2-26-1991                               Ch. 74, Sch. IX
22-1991            3-8-1991                                TSO I
25-1991            3-22-1991                               TSO XVII
30                 4-16-1991                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
31-1991            4-16-1991                               151.01
32                 4-16-1991                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
33                 5-7-1991                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
38-1991            5-7-1991                                TSO XI
41-1991            5-21-1991                               TSO XVII
42-1991            5-21-1991                               TSO XVII
44-1991            5-21-1991                               TSO XVII
53-1991            6-4-1991                                TSO XI
55-1991            6-4-1991                                TSO XVII
63-1991            6-13-1991                               TSO XIV
67-1991            6-27-1991                               TSO V
73                 6-27-1991                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
76-1991            6-27-1991                               TSO VII
77-1991            6-27-1991                               TSO VII
79-1991            6-27-1991                               TSO X
83-1991            7-16-1991                               TSO XVI
85                 7-23-1991                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
86                 7-23-1991                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
87-1991            7-23-1991                               TSO XVII
88-1991            7-23-1991                               TSO XVII
89-1991            7-23-1991                               TSO VII
99-1991            9-17-1991                               TSO XVII
102-1991           10-1-1991                               TSO XVI
103-1991           10-1-1991                               TSO VII
104-1991           10-1-1991                               TSO VII
105-1991           10-1-1991                               TSO VII
106-1991           10-1-1991                               TSO VII
110-1991           10-15-1991                              TSO XVII
111-1991           10-15-1991                              TSO XI
112-1991           10-15-1991                              TSO XI
115-1991           10-22-1991                              TSO IV
116-1991           10-29-1991                              TSO III
119-191            11-19-1991                              TSO XV
120-1991           11-19-1991                              TSO XI
122-1991           11-22-1991                              TSO XIII
124-1991           11-22-1991                              TSO VII
125-1991           11-22-1991                              TSO X
126-1991           11-22-1991                              TSO XIV
127-1991           11-22-1991                              TSO XIII
129-1991           11-22-1991                              TSO III
130-1991           12-3-1991                               TSO XI
133-1991           12-17-1991                              TSO XVII
1                  1-21-1992                               31.018
3-1992             1-21-1992                               TSO IV
4-1992             1-21-1992                               TSO IV
5-1992             1-21-1992                               TSO XI
10-1992            1-31-1992                               TSO XIII
12-1992            2-4-1992                                TSO XI
14-1992            2-18-1992                               TSO X
16-1992            2-18-1992                               TSO XVII
17-1992            2-18-1992                               TSO XIII
20-1992            2-28-1992                               TSO VII
21-1992            2-28-1992                               TSO XVII
22                 2-28-1992                               Ch. 74, Sch. VII
24-1992            3-3-1992                                TSO XIII
25-1992            3-3-1992                                TSO XVII
27-1992            3-17-1992                               TSO XI
                                                            118.35;
30-1992            4-7-1992                                118.39;
                                                            118.99
31-1992            4-7-1992                                TSO XVII
32-1992            4-7-1992                                TSO XVII
33-1992            4-7-1992                                TSO XVII
34-1992            4-7-1992                                TSO XVII
36-1992            4-7-1992                                TSO XI
                                                            114.001;
                                                            114.007;
                                                            114.020;
                                                            114.021;
                                                            114.035;
38-1992            4-9-1992                                114.037;
                                                            114.050'
                                                            114.052;
                                                            114.065;
                                                            114.070;
                                                            114.085;
                                                            114.087
40                 4-9-1992                                35.23
42                 4-9-1992                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
43                 4-9-1992                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
45-1992            4-21-1992                               TSO XIII
56-1992            5-19-1992                               TSO XI
59-1992            5-19-1992                               TSO XIII
60-1992            5-19-1992                               TSO XI
61-1992            5-19-1992                               TSO XI
61-1992            5-19-1992                               TSO XI
63-1992            5-22-1992                               TSO XI
67-1992            5-22-1992                               TSO I
68-1992            5-22-1992                               TSO XI
70-1992            6-8-1992                                TSO XI;
                                                            TSO XVII
73-1992            6-16-1992                               TSO III
75-1992            6-16-1992                               TSO XVII
77-1992            6-18-1992                               TSO XIII
87-1992            7-7-1992                                TSO XVII
92-1992            7-21-1992                               TSO XIV
93-1992            7-21-1992                               TSO XIV
94-1992            7-21-1992                               TSO XI
95-1992            7-21-1992                               TSO XVII
96-1992            7-21-1992                               TSO XVII
97-1992            7-31-1992                               TSO XI
103-1992           7-31-1992                               TSO VII
105-1992           7-31-1992                               TSO IX
108-1992           8-4-1992                                TSO III
112-1992           8-27-1992                               TSO XI
113-1992           8-27-1992                               TSO XI
115-1992           8-27-1992                               TSO XVII
116-1992           8-27-1992                               97.115;
                                                            97.119
117-1992           9-1-1992                                TSO XI
118-1992           9-15-1992                               TSO XVI
119-1992           9-15-1992                               TSO XIV
120-1992           9-15-1992                               TSO XI
124-1992           10-6-1992                               TSO I
126-1992           10-20-1992                              TSO XI
128-1992           10-20-1992                              TSO XI
129-1992           10-20-1992                              TSO XVI
130-1992           10-20-1992                              TSO XVI
136-1992           10-27-1992                              TSO XIII
137-1992           10-27-1992                              TSO XV
138-1992           10-27-1992                              TSO XVII
139                10-27-1992                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
142-1992           11-2-1992                               TSO XIII
145-1992           11-17-1992                              TSO I
147-1992           11-17-1992                              TSO XV
151-1992           12-15-1992                              TSO IV
154-1992           12-15-1992                              Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                                                            TSO XVII
155-1992           12-15-1992                              TSO X
157-1992           12-16-1992                              TSO IV
158-1992           12-16-1992                              TSO IV
159-1992           12-16-1992                              TSO XI;
                                                            TSO XVII
2-1993             1-19-1993                               TSO VII
6-1993             1-29-1993                               TSO VII
                                                            157.020;
9-1993             1-29-1993                               157.040;
                                                            157.205
10-1993            1-29-1993                               TSO XVI
11-1993            2-2-1993                                TSO I
15-1993            2-16-1993                               TSO IV
19-1993            3-2-1993                                TSO XIII
20-1993            3-16-1993                               TSO II
31-1993            4-20-1993                               TSO VII
36-1993            4-20-1993                               TSO II
37-1993            4-20-1993                               TSO XIV
38-1993            5-4-1993                                TSO XI
41                 5-4-1993                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
42-1993            5-6-1993                                TSO XIII
44-1993            5-6-1993                                TSO II
46-1993            5-6-1993                                TSO IV
52-1993            5-6-1993                                TSO XIV
53-1993            5-26-1993                               TSO XI
54-1993            5-26-1993                               TSO XI
55                 5-26-1993                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI
58-1993            6-1-1993                                TSO IV
59-1993            6-1-1993                                TSO XI
60-1993            6-1-1993                                TSO XI
61-1993            6-3-1993                                TSO XVII
63-1993            6-3-1993                                TSO X
65-1993            6-3-1993                                TSO II
69-1993            6-21-1993                               TSO VII
70-1993            6-21-1993                               TSO XI
73-1993            6-25-1993                               TSO VII
74-1993            6-25-1993                               TSO VII
75                 6-25-1993                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
77-1993            7-20-1993                               TSO I
84-1993            8-17-1993                               TSO XVII
85-1993            8-17-1993                               TSO XI
86-1993            6-3-1993                                TSO XVII
87-1993            8-3-1993                                TSO XI
92-1993            8-17-1993                               TSO XI
93-1993            9-2-1993                                TSO XIV
94-1993            9-2-1993                                TSO XI
95-1993            9-2-1993                                TSO XVII
                                                            119.35;
97-1993            9-2-1993                                119.45;
                                                            119.99
98-1993            9-2-1993                                TSO VII
102-1993           10-7-1993                               TSO V;
                                                            TSO XVII
107-1993           10-7-1993                               TSO XVII
113-1993           10-21-1993                              TSO XVII
114-1993           10-21-1993                              TSO XVII
115-1993           10-21-1993                              TSO XI
116-1993           10-21-1993                              TSO XVII
117-1993           10-21-1993                              TSO VII
119-1993           11-4-1993                               155.01
122-1993           11-18-1993                              TSO III
124-1993           11-18-1993                              TSO IV
125-1993           11-18-1993                              TSO IV
130-1993           12-2-1993                               TSO III
133                12-2-1993                               30.06
136-1993           12-2-1993                               TSO XVII
138-1993           12-16-1993                              TSO VII
139-1993           12-16-1993                              TSO XI
141-1993           12-16-1993                              TSO IV
1-1994             1-6-1994                                TSO IV
4-1994             1-6-1994                                TSO IV
7-1994             1-6-1994                                TSO XI
8-1994             1-6-1994                                TSO XI
9-1994             1-6-1994                                TSO XI
11-1994            - -                                     TSO XVII
14-1994            1-20-1994                               TSO XVII
15-1994            1-20-1994                               155.03
22-1994            2-3-1994                                121.01;
                                                            121.04
31-1994            2-17-1994                               TSO IV
33-1994            2-17-1994                               TSO XVII
35                 2-17-1994                               72.999
40-1994            3-17-1994                               TSO XVI
41-1994            3-17-1994                               TSO XI
42-1994            3-17-1994                               TSO XI
44-1994            3-17-1994                               TSO XVII
45-1994            4-7-1994                                TSO XVII
46-1994            4-7-1994                                TSO XVII
50-1994            4-21-1994                               TSO XVII
51                 4-21-1994                               Ch. 75, Sch. VI;
                                                            Ch. 75, Sch. VII
53-1994            4-21-1994                               97.065
57-1994            5-5-1994                                TSO IV
60-1994            5-5-1994                                TSO XVII
63-1994            5-19-1994                               TSO XI
65-1994            5-19-1994                               TSO XI
67-1994            5-19-1994                               TSO XVI
69-1994            5-19-1994                               TSO XI
76-1994            6-2-1994                                TSO XI
78                 6-2-1994                                33.50;
                                                            33.55
79                 6-2-1994                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
80-1994            6-2-1994                                TSO XVII
81                 6-2-1994                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
82-1994            6-2-1994                                TSO XV
84                 6-7-1994                                Ch. 74, Sch. IV
86-1994            6-16-1994                               TSO IV
87-1994            6-16-1994                               155.05
88-1994            6-28-1994                               TSO VII
89-1994            6-28-1994                               TSO XI
91-1994            6-28-1994                               TSO XVII
92-1994            6-28-1994                               TSO XVII
93-1994            7-7-1994                                TSO III
94-1994            7-7-1994                                TSO XI
99-1994            7-21-1994                               TSO XVII
100                7-21-1994                               130.15
101-1994           8-4-1994                                TSO V
102-1994           7-21-1994                               TSO XI
103-1994           8-4-1994                                TSO XI
104-1994           8-4-1994                                TSO XI
105-1994           8-4-1994                                TSO XI
108-1994           8-4-1994                                TSO VII
109                8-4-1994                                Ch. 74, Sch. IV
110-1994           8-18-1994                               TSO XVII
115-1994           9-1-1994                                TSO VII
117-1994           9-1-1994                                TSO VII
118-1994           9-1-1994                                TSO VII
119                9-1-1994                                Ch. 75, Sch. VI
121-1994           9-15-1994                               95.15;
                                                            95.18
122-1994           9-15-1994                               TSO XIV
124-1994           9-15-1994                               TSO XVI
125-1994           9-15-1994                               TSO XVII
126-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO IX
127-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO IX
128-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO IV
129-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO XVII
131-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO XI
132-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO VII
133-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO VII
134-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO VII
135-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO VII
136-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO VII
137-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO VII
138-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO XI
139                10-6-1994                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
140-1994           10-6-1994                               TSO X
141-1994           10-20-1994                              TSO IX
142-1994           10-20-1994                              TSO VII
143-1994           10-20-1994                              TSO XVI
144                10-20-1994                              Ch. 75, Sch. VI
145-1994           11-17-1994                              TSO IX
146-1994           11-17-1994                              TSO IX
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               UK King s Daughters
147-1994           11-17-1994  regarding construction of a  TSO IX
                               parking lot at 2205
                               Montgomery Avenue
                               Authorizing agreement with
148-1994           11-17-1994  Mike and Becky Fannin        TSO IX
                               regarding replacement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing agreement with
149-1994           11-17-1994  Ashland Oil for fire         TSO XI
                               protection services
                               Authorizing agreement with
150-1994           11-17-1994  the Little Sandy Fire        TSO XI
                               Department for fire
                               protection services
                               Authorizing agreement with
151-1994           11-17-1994  the Wurtland Fire Department TSO XI
                               for fire protection services
152-1994           11-17-1994  Prohibiting parking across   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               from 915 Prospect Avenue
153-1994           11-17-1994  Amending budget ordinance    Not included
                               Amending authorized
154-1994           11-17-1994  positions for Department of  TSO XVII
                               Public Services and
                               Department of Police
155-1994           11-17-1994  Establishing Code of Ethics  31.030; 31.036
                               Authorizing the use of
156-1994           11-17-1994  Central Park and prohibiting TSO IV
                               commercial sales
                               Authorizing agreement with
157-1994           11-17-1994  Morton International, Inc.   TSO VII
                               for the purchase of rock
                               salt
                               Authorizing agreement with
158-1994           12-1-1994   Aquatic Renovation Systems,  TSO VII
                               Inc. for installation of
                               materials at Dawson Pool
                               Authorizing agreement with
159-1994           12-1-1994   Milford and Janet Bond       TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing agreement with
160-1994           12-1-1994   Cellular One regarding       TSO IX
                               placement of a sign
                               Authorizing agreement with
161-1994           12-1-1994   Thomas and Barb Crutcher     TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing acquisition of
162-1994           12-1-1994   property to create a         TSO IV
                               recreation area
163, 1994          12-1-1994   Amending Ord. 1-1990,        71.56
                               regarding truck routes
                               Repealing Ord. 9-1974 and
                               authorizing acceptance of
164-1994           12-1-1994   $2,746.78 by the Police      TSO I
                               Department from the
                               Auxiliary Police
                               Authorizing agreement with
165-1994           12-15-1994  UK King s Daughters          TSO IX
                               regarding construction of a
                               canopy
                               Granting ownership and
                               operational responsibilities
166-1994           12-15-1994  of Hatchery Road Pump        TSO VII
                               Station and wastewater
                               collection facilities
                               Authorizing submittal of
                               Amended Final Statement of
167-1994           12-15-1994  community block grant years  TSO IV
                               XIX and XX objectives and
                               projected use of funds of
                               HUD
                               Fixing days, time and place
168-1994           12-15-1994  for meetings of the Board of Not included
                               Commissioners
169-1994           12-15-1994  Adopting investment policy   37.070;
                                                            37.082
                               Authorizing execution of an
1-1995             1-5-1995    interlocal cooperation       TSO XI
                               agreement
2-1995             1-5-1995    Establishing commercial      TSO XVII
                               loading zones
3-1995             1-19-1995   Amending sign regulations    TSO XVII
4-1995             1-19-1995   Amending Ord. 100-1988,      Not included
                               regarding stop signs
5-1995             1-19-1995   Prohibiting park on          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Winchester Ave.
                               Amending Zoning Ordinance
6-1995             1-19-1995   regarding use of historical  157.183
                               structures
                               Authorizing the issuance of
7-1996             2-2-1995    $55,000,000 of sewer and     TSO III
                               solid waste revenue bonds
                               Authorizing an agreement
8-1995             2-2-1995    with Ashland Senior Center   TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
9-1995             2-2-1995    with Community Hospice, Inc. TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
10-1995            2-2-1995    with Belinda Hunt regarding  TSO IX
                               placement of a sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
11-1995            2-2-1995    with Greg Martin regarding   TSO IX
                               placement of a fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
12-1995            2-2-1995    with Thomas Ltd. regarding   TSO IX
                               placement of an awning sign
                               Authorizing a contract with
13-1995            2-2-1995    Pantech Inc. for removal and TSO VII
                               installation of storage
                               tanks
                               Amending Article II of the
14-1995            2-2-1995    rules and regulations of the TSO XVII
                               sewer system; repealed by
                               Ord. 62-2012
15-1995            2-2-1995    Amending budget ordinance    Not included
                               Amending loan agreement with
16-1995            2-16-1995   Ashland Oil regarding solid  TSO III
                               waste revenue bonds
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Department of Local
17-1995            2-16-1995   Government for the use of    TSO IV
                               ARC 302 Planning and
                               Technical Assistance Funding
                               Authorizing an agreement
18-1995            2-16-1995   with Ashland Main Street,    TSO IV
                               Inc. for administration of
                               ARC 302 Grant
                               Authorizing agreement with
19-1995            2-16-1995   Ben Williamson Industrial    TSO IX
                               Supply regarding placement
                               of awnings
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Coyne Textile Services for
20-1995            2-16-1995   the purchase of all labor,   TSO VII
                               material and services to
                               provide towel, fender cover,
                               mop and mat service
                               Restricting parking on
21                 3-2-1995    designated portions of       Ch. 75, Sch. X
                               streets
                               Authorizing an agreement
22-1995            3-2-1995    with Rebecca Fannin          TSO IX
                               regarding placement of an
                               awning
                               Authorizing an agreement
23-1995            3-2-1995    with First United Methodist  TSO IX
                               Church regarding placement
                               of a fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
24-1995            3-2-1995    with Sharon Sawyer regarding TSO IX
                               placement of a fence
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Spear Corporation for the
25-1995            3-2-1995    installation and materials   TSO VII
                               for a filter system at
                               Dawson Pool
                               Amending Ord. 100-1988
26-1995            3-2-1995    regarding stop signs;        Not included
                               repealed by Ord. 169-1995
                               Authorizing submittal of
                               amended final statement of
27-1995            3-2-1995    community block grant years  TSO IV
                               XIX and XX objectives and
                               protected use of funds to
                               HUD
                               Amending personnel policies
28-1995            3-2-1995    and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               expense reimbursement;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending Ord. 87-1992
29-1995            3-2-1995    regarding procurement        TSO XVII
                               regulations; repealed by
                               Ord. 61-2019
                               Repealing Ord. 18-1966 as
                               amended by Ord. 55-1991
30-1995            3-2-1995    regarding prohibiting        112.01
                               licensing and operation of
                               public pool rooms
31-1995            3-16-1995   Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
32-1995            3-16-1995   Amending budget ordinance    Not included
                               Authorizing a grant
33-1995            3-16-1995   application to the Federal   TSO XI
                               Transit Administration
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Ashland Baseball
34-1995            3-20-1995   Association, Inc. regarding  TSO VII
                               the operation of the
                               concession stand in Central
                               Park
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Paul G. Blazer High
35-1995            3-20-1995   School Band parents          TSO VII
                               regarding the operation of
                               the concession stand in
                               Central Park
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures regarding the
36-1995            3-20-1995   family and medical leave act TSO XVII
                               policy; repealed by Ord. 77-
                               2003
                               Repealing Ord. 122-1986 and
37-1995            3-20-1995   establishing limited         157.050
                               temporary use of the public
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing a purchase and
38-1995            3-20-1995   sale agreement with Ashland  TSO XIII
                               Hide Company
39-1995            3-20-1995   Amending budget ordinance    Not included
                               Authorizing an agreement
40-1995            4-20-1995   with Sim Fryson Motor        TSO IX
                               Company, Inc. regarding
                               placement of signs
                               Adopting the revised job
41-1995            4-20-1995   description for Housing      TSO XVII
                               Development Specialist;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing a contract with
42-1995            4-20-1995   Fields Excavating for the    TSO IV
                               29th Street renovations
43-1995            5-4-1995    Adopting the CDBG program of TSO IV
                               operation
                               Authorizing an agreement for
44-1995            5-4-1995    fire protection with the     TSO XI
                               South Shore Fire District
                               Authorizing a contract with
45-1995            5-4-1995    John D. Meyers & Associates, TSO VII
                               PSC for the design of an
                               elevated parking structure
                               Authorizing a professional
                               services agreement with
46-1995            5-4-1995    Parsons Engineering Services TSO IV
                               for an environmental
                               assessment of the Ashland
                               Hide property
                               Amending Ord. 21-1995
47-1995            5-4-1995    restricting parking in the   Not included
                               UK King s Daughters
                               Amending Ord. 33-1992
48-1995            5-4-1995    restricting parking on       TSO XVII
                               certain streets; repealed by
                               Ord. 78-1997
                               Authorizing a sole
                               ownership-cash deed with the
49-1995            5-4-1995    Department of Housing and    TSO XIII
                               Urban Development for
                               property at 2232 Horne
                               Street
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Kentucky
                               Housing corporation for
                               distribution of funds to the
50-1995            5-4-1995    Shelter of Hope, Inc., the   TSO XI
                               Safe Harbor Spouse Abuse
                               Center, the Community
                               Assistance Referral Service/
                               YWCA, and the Salvation Army
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Kentucky
51-1995            5-4-1995    Justice Cabinet for the      TSO XI
                               continuation of funding for
                               the Drug Abuse Resistance
                               Education Program
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Kentucky
52-1995            5-4-1995    Justice Cabinet for funding  TSO XI
                               for a traffic alcohol
                               program grant
                               Authorizing a deed with John
53-1995            5-18-1995   Wolhoy Enterprises, Inc. for TSO IX
                               a 15 ft. sewer easement
                               Authorizing a one-year
                               contract with Cooksey
54-1995            5-18-1995   Brothers Disposal Company    TSO VII
                               for the furnishing of a
                               landfill location
55-1995            5-18-1995   Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
                               Authorizing an agreement
56-1995            6-1-1995    with the American Wind       TSO VII
                               Symphony Orchestra for a
                               concert
                               Authorizing an agreement
57-1995            6-1-1995    with Don Hall Chevrolet/     TSO IX
                               Olds/GMC, Inc. regarding a
                               parking encroachment
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
58-1995            6-1-1995    for the storm drain and      TSO IV
                               paving project on Clements
                               Drive
                               Authorizing a deed and
                               mortgage between the
                               Community Development Agency
59-1995            6-1-1995    Public Housing Authority and TSO XIII
                               First American Bank for
                               property located at 1436
                               Greenup Avenue
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
60-1995            6-1-1995    rates for 1994 on real       TSO XVIII
                               estate, personal property
                               and franchises
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
61-1995            6-1-1995    rates for 1994 on bank       TSO XVIII
                               stocks or shares
62-1995            6-1-1995    Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
                               Amending the Flood Damage
63-1995            6-1-1995    Prevention Plan; repealed by TSO XVII
                               Ord. 180-2004
64-1995            6-1-1995    Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Linda Wright for the
65-1995            6-1-1995    installation of a water main TSO VII
                               and related facilities for a
                               water extension
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Professional
66-1995            6-5-1995    Maintenance of Ohio Valley   TSO VII
                               for cleaning services for
                               the Police Department
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               First Industrial Supply for
67-1995            6-5-1995    the renovation of existing   TSO IV
                               areas and construction of
                               additional areas at 1436
                               Greenup Avenue
                               Regulating and requiring a   118.20;
68-1995            6-5-1995    license for garage sales     118.23;
                                                            118.99
                               Amending Ord. 44-1978
69-1995            6-5-1995    regarding building permit    TSO XVII
                               fees
                               Amending Ord. 91-1994
70-1995            6-5-1995    regarding the Property       TSO XVII
                               Maintenance Code
                               Authorizing the borrowing of
71-1995            6-5-1995    funds for operational        Not included
                               expenses for July 1, 1995,
                               through June 30, 1996
                               Fixing the regulatory
72-1995            6-15-1995   license fee from the sale of TSO XVII
                               alcoholic beverages
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
                               rates for 1994 on real
73-1995            6-15-1995   estate personal property and TSO XVIII
                               franchises for school
                               purposes
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Mid-America
                               Distributors, Inc. regarding
74-1995            6-26-1996   placement of awnings along   TSO IX
                               the front of building at
                               1301 Greenup Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
75                 6-26-1995   Prohibiting parking on a     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               portion of 44th Street
                               Amending the assisted
76-1995            6-26-1995   Housing Agency               TSO XVII
                               Administrative Plan;
                               repealed by Ord. 3-1997
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures regarding
77-1995            6-26-1995   conditions of employment,    TSO XVII
                               promotion, and authorized
                               positions; repealed by Ord.
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Reynolds Construction
78-1995            6-26-1995   Company for materials and    TSO VII
                               labor to complete the
                               concrete walk around the
                               Central Park Pond
                               Establishing water rates,
                               tap fees, installation
79-1995            6-26-1995   charges service charges and  TSO XVII
                               penalties; repealed by Ord.
                               80-2005
                               Establishing sewer rates,
                               tap fees, installation
80-1995            6-26-1995   charges, service charges,    TSO XVII
                               industrial pretreatment
                               charges and penalties;
                               repealed by Ord. 81-2005
                               Repealing Ord. 154-1984 and
                               all amendments and providing
81-1995            6-26-1995   for the regulation of        TSO XVII
                               garbage, rubbish and waste
                               materials; repealed by Ord.
                               82-2005
82-1995            6-28-1995   Adopting 1995 - 1996 budget  Not included
                               Amending personnel policies
83-1995            6-28-1995   and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               authorized positions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending compensation and
84-1995            6-28-1995   classification plan          TSO XVII
                               regarding job descriptions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending the salary
85-1995            6-28-1995   schedule; repealed by Ord.   TSO XVII
                               105-1997
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Marathon Enterprises for the
                               purchase of a computer
86-1995            7-6-1995    network and personal         Not included
                               computer equipment for the
                               Department of Planning and
                               Community Development
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Bill Ross Construction for
87-1995            7-20-1995   materials and labor to       TSO VII
                               complete a wood bridge over
                               the spillway from Central
                               Park pond
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Reynolds Construction Co.,
88-1995            7-20-1995   Inc. for the renovation and  TSO VII
                               expansion of the bus storage
                               facility
                               Authorizing an additional
                               mortgage between the
89-1995            7-20-1995   Community Development Agency TSO VII
                               Public Housing Authority and
                               First American Bank
                               Designating a handicapped
90-1995            7-20-1995   parking space at 2276        Ch. 75, Sch. III;
                               Winchester Avenue; repealed  TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 50-2012
                               Establishing a comprehensive
91-1995            7-20-1995   hiring ordinance for police  TSO XVII
                               officers; repealed by Ord.
                               131-1999
                               Authorizing an agreement
92-1995            8-3-1995    with Ashland, Inc. regarding TSO IX
                               installation of a monitor
                               well
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Blacktop Industries and
93-1995            8-3-1995    Equipment Company for        TSO VII
                               placement and replacement of
                               bituminous asphalt material
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               the U.S. Department of
                               Housing and Urban
94-1995            8-3-1995    Development regarding the    TSO XI
                               Section 8 consolidated
                               annual contributions
                               contract
                               Authorizing a change order
95-1995            8-3-1995    with Fields Excavating       TSO VII
                               regarding the 29th Street
                               reconstruction project
                               Authorizing a change order
                               with Reynolds Construction
96-1995            8-3-1995    Co. regarding materials and  TSO VII
                               labor to complete the
                               concrete walk around Central
                               Park Pond
                               Imposing a license fee on
97-1995            8-3-1995    insurance companies;         TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 35-1998
                               Authorizing an agreement
98-1995            8-17-1995   with James and Lajohnda Vice TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
99-1995            8-17-1995   with John and Debra Roach    TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               privacy fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
100-1995           8-17-1995   with Dallas Wheeler          TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Kentucky
101-1995           8-17-1995   Transportation Cabinet for   TSO XI
                               the bus system s capital
                               maintenance items
                               Authorizing a change order
                               with First Industrial Supply
102-1995           8-17-1995   for the renovation and       TSO VII
                               construction of areas at
                               1436 Greenup Avenue
103-1995           8-17-1995   Annexing 4429 Southern Hills TSO VII
                               Drive
                               Adopting revised job
104-1995           8-17-1995   descriptions for police      TSO XVII
                               officer and Accountant I;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing a contract with
105-1995           8-17-1995   J&J Contracting, Inc. for    TSO VII
                               the concrete improvement
                               program
                               Authorizing a contract with
106-1995           8-17-1995   J&J Contracting, Inc. for    TSO VII
                               miscellaneous concrete and
                               asphalt work
                               Authorizing an agreement
107-1995           9-7-1995    with Carla Tooke regarding   TSO IX
                               placement of a fence and
                               landscaping
                               Authorizing change order no.
108-1995           9-7-1995    2 with Fields Excavating     TSO VII
                               regarding the 29th Street
                               reconstruction project
                               Authorizing a change order
                               with Reynolds Construction
109-1995           9-7-1995    Co. regarding materials and  TSO VII
                               labor to complete the
                               concrete walk around Central
                               Park Pond
                               Authorizing an agreement
110-1995           9-7-1995    with Garal Boyle for the     TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
                               Authorizing change order no.
111-1995           9-7-1995    3 with Fields Excavating     TSO VII
                               regarding the 29th Street
                               reconstruction project
                               Authorizing an agreement
112-1995           9-21-1995   with Ashland City            TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
                               Authorizing a lease
113-1995           9-21-1995   agreement with The Ardis     TSO XIII
                               Company for a radio antenna
                               site
                               Authorizing a lease
114-1995           9-21-1995   agreement with GTE South     TSO XIII
                               Incorporated for an antenna
                               site
115-1995           9-21-1995   Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
116-1995           9-21-1995   Adopting job description for TSO XVII
                               Accounts Payable Clerk
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with UK King s Daughters
117-1995           9-21-1995   regarding construction of    TSO IX
                               parking lots and required
                               landscaping
                               Authorizing an agreement
118-1995           9-21-1995   with Butch and Glenda Upton  TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               privacy fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
119-1995           9-21-1995   with Greabear Gallery        TSO IX
                               regarding placement of an
                               awning
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Ashland Community
120-1995           9-21-1995   Medical Equipment regarding  TSO IX
                               placement of awnings and a
                               handicap access ramp
                               Authorizing an agreement
121-1995           9-21-1995   with Beech Street Christian  TSO IX
                               Church regarding placement
                               of a sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Kentucky Power Co. for
122-1995           9-21-1995   the installation of an       TSO VII
                               underground electrical
                               system in Central Park
                               Amending Ord. 100-1988
123-1995           9-21-1995   regarding stop signs;        Not included
                               repealed
                               Amending Ord. 100-1988
124-1995           9-21-1991   regarding stop signs;        Not included
                               repealed
                               Amending Ord. 97-1995
125-1995           10-5-1995   regarding license fees on    TSO XVII
                               insurance companies;
                               repealed by Ord. 35-1998
                               Authorizing a contract with
126-1995           10-5-1995   Neptune Equipment Co. for    TSO VII
                               the purchase of cold water
                               meters
                               Authorizing an agreement
127-1995           10-5-1995   with Robert Wright regarding TSO IX
                               placement of a privacy fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
128-1995           10-5-1995   with Judalyn James regarding TSO IX
                               placement of a fence
                               Establishing the vacation
129-1995           10-5-1995   donation program; repealed   TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing an
                               indemnification agreement
130-1995           10-5-1995   with Mansbach Metal Company  TSO VII
                               regarding the donation of
                               C&O Caboose for use in the
                               Railroad Park Museum
                               Authorizing an agreement
131-1995           10-19-1995  with Bruce and Shannon Evans TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing a final change
                               order with First Industrial
132-1995           10-19-1995  Supply for the renovation    TSO VII
                               and construction of areas at
                               1436 Greenup Avenue
                               Accepting for dedication
133-1995           10-19-1995  certain property for a       TSO I
                               public alley
                               Establishing procedures for
                               the use of streets, rights-
134-1995           10-19-1995  of-way or facilities for     TSO XVII
                               street events; repealed by
                               Ord. 157, 2020
                               Authorizing a one-year
                               contract with Battery
135-1995           11-2-1995   Terminal, Inc. for the       TSO VII
                               purchase of motor vehicle
                               and equipment batteries
                               Authorizing a contract with
136-1995           11-2-1995   Morton International, Inc.   TSO VII
                               for rock salt
                               Authorizing contract with
137-1995           11-2-1995   Otis Elevator; repealed by   TSO XVII
                               Ord. 8-1996
                               Authorizing change order no.
138-1995           11-2-1995   4 with Fields Excavating     TSO VII
                               regarding the 29th Street
                               reconstruction project
                               Authorizing an agreement
139-1995           11-2-1995   with John Hood, Jr.          TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
140-1995           11-2-1995   with Ron and Karen Artis     TSO IX
                               regarding placement of wood
                               porch steps
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Scott Orthopedic
141-1995           11-2-1995   Center, Inc. regarding       TSO IX
                               placement of a sign and
                               awning
                               Authorizing an agreement
142-1995           11-2-1995   with Russ James regarding    TSO IX
                               placement of a sign
                               Designating a handicapped
143                11-2-1995   parking space at 15th Street Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               and Central Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
144-1995           11-16-1995  with Bill Hall regarding     TSO IX
                               placement of a fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
145-1995           11-16-1995  with Shakti Inc. regarding   TSO IX
                               placement of a sign
146-1995                                                  Not included
                               Authorizing a lease
                               agreement with the Boyd
147-1995           11-16-1995  County Fiscal Court for the  TSO VII
                               lease of vehicles for the
                               Police Department
                               Authorizing a lease
                               agreement with Ashland
148-1995           11-16-1995  Office Supply to lease a     TSO VII
                               copier for the Ashland
                               Assisted Housing Authority
                               Authorizing agreement with
149-1995           11-16-1995  the City of Flatwoods to     TSO XVII
                               furnish potable water;
                               repealed by Ord. 14-1996
                               Authorizing a one-year
                               agreement with Professional
150-1995           11-16-1995  Maintenance of Ohio Valley   TSO VII
                               for furnishing janitorial
                               services
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Department of Local
151-1995           11-16-1995  Government for the use of    TSO IV
                               ARC 302 Planning and
                               Technical Assistance Funding
                               Authorizing a professional
                               services agreement with
152-1995           11-16-1995  Ashland Main Street, Inc.    TSO IV
                               for administration of the
                               ARC 302 grant
                               Authorizing a subrogation
153-1995           11-16-1995  agreement with Kentucky      TSO XI
                               Petroleum Tank Environmental
                               Assurance Fund Commission
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Nesbitt Engineering
                               Inc. for professional
154-1995           11-16-1995  services regarding CSX       TSO VII
                               Transportation, Inc. vs.
                               City of Ashland for the
                               Department of Public
                               Services
                               Authorizing a change order
                               with Light s Enterprises,
155-1995           11-16-1995  Inc. regarding the storm     TSO VII
                               drain and paving project on
                               Clements Drive
                               Amending Ord. 100-1988
156-1995           11-16-1995  regarding stop signs;        Not included
                               repealed by Ord. 169-1995
                               Designating a two hour
157                11-16-1995  handicapped parking space in Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               the 700 block of 22nd Street
                               Authorizing the use of
158-1995           11-16-1995  Central Park by Winter       TSO IV
                               Wonderland and prohibiting
                               commercial sales
                               Authorizing an agreement
159-1995           12-11-1995  with Franz Enterprises for   TSO VII
                               the widening of Earl Street
                               Fixing the days, time and
160-1995           12-11-1995  place for meetings of the    Not included
                               Board of Commissioners for
                               1996
                               Amending personnel policies
161-1995           12-11-1995  and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               sexual harassment; repealed
                               by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Shelter of Hope, Inc.
162-1995           12-21-1995  as the subrecipient from a   TSO XI
                               grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Salvation Army as
163-1995           12-21-1995  the subrecipient from a      TSO XI
                               grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Safe Harbor of
164-1995           12-21-1995  Northeast Kentucky, Inc. as  TSO XI
                               subrecipient from a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Community Action
165-1995           12-21-1995  Referral Service as          TSO XI
                               subrecipient from a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing an agreement
166-1995           12-21-1995  with Flexisoft to conduct an TSO VII
                               independent study of the
                               System 36
                               Authorizing a contract with
167-1995           12-21-1995  C&D Painting Service for     TSO VII
                               painting and rust removal of
                               the water treatment plant
168-1995           12-21-1995  Adopting a Drug and Alcohol  TSO XVII
                               Policy
                               Repealing Ord. 100-1988 and  71.42;
169-1995           12-21-1995  providing for the            71.43;
                               installation of stop signs   71.99;
                                                            Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Authorizing a contract with
1-1996             1-4-1996    Professional Maintenance of  TSO VII
                               Ohio Valley for cleaning
                               services
                               Authorizing change order no.
2-1996             1-4-1996    5 with Fields Excavating for TSO VII
                               the 29th Street
                               reconstruction project
3-1996             1-14-1996   Annexing the Hampton Hills   TSO II
                               Subdivision
                               Changing the meeting
4-1996             1-4-1996    location for January 18,     Not included
                               1996 meeting of the Board of
                               Commissioners
                               Establishing street sweeping
5-1996             1-4-1996    schedule; repealed by Ord.   TSO XVII
                               52-1996
                               Authorizing an agreement
6-1996             1-18-1996   with Shelter of Hope         TSO IX
                               regarding placement of chain
                               link fence
7-1996             1-18-1996   Amending budget ordinance    Not included
                               Authorizing a one-year
8-1996             1-18-1996   contract with Otis Elevator  TSO VII
                               Company for electrical
                               wiring and maintenance
                               Authorizing a memorandum of
9-1996             1-18-1996   understanding regarding the  TSO VII
                               Ashland Area Violent Crime
                               Task Force
                               Authorizing a lease
                               agreement with the Lewis
10-1996            2-1-1996    County Sheriff s Department  TSO VII
                               for the lease of city owned
                               vehicles
                               Authorizing an agreement
11-1996            2-1-1996    with the Ashland Plaza Hotel TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Columbia Gas of
12-1996            2-1-1996    Kentucky, Inc. regarding     TSO IX
                               placement of a security
                               fence
13-1996            2-1-1996    Adopting a Deferred          Not included
                               Compensation Plan
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the City of Flatwoods   TSO VII;
14-1996            2-1-1996    for Ashland s furnishing of  TSO XVII
                               potable water; repealed by
                               Ord. 160-2005
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with AT&T Corp. regarding
15-1996            2-15-1996   the use of the city s right- TSO IX
                               of-way along the railroad
                               tracks
                               Approving amendment of loan
16-1996            2-15-1996   agreement for economic       TSO III
                               development revenue bonds
17-1996            2-15-1996   Naming unnamed roadway as    TSO XV
                               Pitino Court
                               Amending water rates, tap
18-1996            2-15-1996   fees, installation charges,  TSO XVII
                               and service charges;
                               repealed by Ord. 80-2005
                               Amending sewer rates, tap
                               fees, installation charges,
19-1996            2-15-1996   services charges, industrial TSO XVII
                               pretreatment charges;
                               repealed by Ord. 81-2005
                               Amending regulations
20-1996            3-7-1996    regarding garbage and        TSO XVII
                               rubbish disposal; repealed
                               by Ord. 82-2005
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Elswick Outdoor
21-1996            3-7-1996    Advertising, Inc. regarding  TSO IX
                               placement of a billboard
                               sign
                               Authorizing a contract with
22-1996            3-7-1996    B&L Utility Contractors,     TSO VII
                               Inc. for storm sewer system
                               improvements
                               Authorizing a contract with
23-1996            3-7-1996    John D. Meyers & Associates, TSO VII
                               PSC for the design of a
                               central fire station
                               Acknowledging the transfer
                               of Cox Communications
24-1996            3-7-1996    Eastern Kentucky, Inc. to    TSO X
                               Frontier Vision Operating
                               Partners, Inc.
25-1996            3-7-1996    Amending budget ordinance    Not included
26                 3-7-1996    Amending Ord. 151-1988       Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               regarding 15-minute parking
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Federal
27-1996            3-21-1996   Transit Administration on    TSO XI
                               behalf of the Ashland Bus
                               System for operating costs
28-1996            3-21-1996   Reestablishing and           35.15
                               recreating an airport board
                               Authorizing a deed with
                               National City Bank for
29-1996            3-21-1996   property for the             TSO XIII
                               construction of a fire
                               station
                               Authorizing an agreement
30-1996            3-21-1996   with GRW Engineers, Inc. for TSO VII
                               the combined sewer
                               operational plan
                               Authorizing an agreement
31-1996            4-4-1996    with Wendy s International,  TSO IX
                               Inc. regarding placement of
                               a light pole
                               Authorizing alley
32-1996            4-4-1996    improvement pursuant to      TSO VII
                               request of the Ashland
                               Independent School System
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Ashland Baseball
33-1996            4-4-1996    Association, Inc. regarding  TSO VII
                               operation of the concession
                               stand in Central Park
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Professional Fire
34-1996            4-18-1996   Extinguisher Sales and       TSO IX
                               Service, Inc. regarding
                               placement of a sign/planter
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Smith, Goolsby, Artis &
35-1996            4-18-1996   Reams, PSC to conduct an     TSO VII
                               audit of the city s
                               financial statement for FY
                               ending June 30, 1996
                               Amending personnel policies
36-1996            4-18-1996   and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               authorized positions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
37                 4-18-1996   Prohibiting parking on the   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               north side of Glenn Street
                               Restricting parking on
38-1996            4-18-1996   portions of Cypress Street;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 78-1997
                               Amending Ord. 155-1984 and
39-1996            4-18-1996   establishing two hour        TSO XVII
                               parking limits; repealed by
                               Ord. 52-2016
                               Authorizing the refund of
40-1996            5-2-1996    $10,000,000 of pollution     TSO III
                               control revenue bonds
                               Authorizing submittal of the
41-1996            5-2-1996    1997 action plan for a       TSO IV
                               community development block
                               grant to HUD
42-1996            5-2-1996    Amending ad valorem property 37.005
                               tax rates
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Kentucky
                               Housing Corporation for the
43-1996            5-2-1996    Salvation Army, Shelter of   TSO XI
                               Hope, Inc., the Safe Harbor,
                               Inc., Community Assistance
                               Referral Service/YWCA and
                               Pathways
                               Authorizing a mutual aid
44-1996            5-16-1996   agreement with the City of   TSO XI
                               Ironton, Ohio for fire
                               protection services
                               Authorizing an agreement
45-1996            5-16-1996   with Vernon Dickents         TSO IX
                               regarding a sign and parking
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing a one-year
46-1996            5-16-1996   contract with Dravo Lime     TSO VII
                               Company for pebble lime
                               Authorizing a one-year
47-1996            5-16-1996   contract with HVC, Inc. for  TSO VII
                               potassium permanganate
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
48-1996            5-16-1996   for placement and            TSO VII
                               replacement of bituminous
                               asphalt material
                               Authorizing a contract with
49-1996            5-16-1996   P.B.&S. Chemical Company,    TSO VII
                               Inc. for a one-year supply
                               of chemicals
                               Authorizing a contract with
50-1996            5-16-1996   Stockhausen, Inc. for a one- TSO VII
                               year supply of dry cationic
                               polymer
                               Authorizing corporation
                               counsel to institute an
51-1996            5-16-1996   action in the Boyd Circuit   TSO XIV
                               Court to close a portion of
                               right-of-way at the end of
                               Belford Street
                               Establishing a street        72.120;
52-1996            6-6-1996    sweeping schedule            72.999;
                                                            Ch. 75, Sch. XI
                               Authorizing an agreement
53-1996            6-6-1996    with Gospel Tabernacle       TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Rick and Melody Spears
54-1996            6-6-1996    for the installation of a    TSO VII
                               water line extension outside
                               the city limits
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               B&L Utility Contractors,
55-1996            6-6-1996    Inc. for miscellaneous       TSO VII
                               concrete and asphalt repair
                               work
                               Authorizing a contract with
56-1996            6-6-1996    J&C Contracting, Inc. for    TSO VII
                               the 1996-1997 sidewalk
                               replacement program
                               Changing the day and date
57-1996            6-6-1996    for the first regular city   Not included
                               Commissioners meeting
                               Authorizing the installation
58                 6-6-1996    of stop signs on Monroe      Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
59-1996            6-17-1996   with Paul and Cathie Shaffer TSO IX
                               regarding placement of a
                               wood picket fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
60-1996            6-17-1996   with Kentucky Power Company  TSO IX
                               regarding a landscaping and
                               parking encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Mick Stephens of Martin
61-1996            6-17-1996   Tiff, Inc. for the           TSO VII
                               installation of a sanitary
                               sewer line extension to
                               Melody Mountain
                               Authorizing a contract with
62-1996            6-17-1996   Cooksey Brothers Disposal    TSO VII
                               Company for the furnishing
                               of a landfill location
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
63-1996            6-17-1996   rate for 1995 on real        TSO XVIII
                               estate, personal property,
                               and franchises
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures plan,
64-1996            6-25-1996   compensation plan and        TSO XVII
                               classification plan
                               regarding job descriptions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing amendment to the
65-1996            6-25-1996   loan agreement with Ashland, TSO III
                               Inc. regarding sewage and
                               solid waste revenue bonds
66-1996            6-25-1996   Authorizing expansion of the TSO IV
                               Ashland Enterprise Zone
                               Amending rules and
67-1996            6-25-1996   regulations regarding use of TSO XVII
                               the sewer system; repealed
                               by Ord. 62-2012
68-1996            6-29-1996   Adopting the 1996-1997       Not included
                               budget
                               Fixing the regulatory
69-1996            6-29-1996   license fee from the sale of TSO XVII
                               alcoholic beverages;
                               repealed by Ord. 143-2003
                               Fixing the tax levy for 1995
70-1996            6-29-1996   on real estate, personal     TSO XVIII
                               property and franchises for
                               school purposes
                               Authorizing the issuance of
71-1996            7-2-1996    $10,000,000 taxable solid    TSO III
                               waste revenue notes
                               Authorizing the borrowing of
                               funds for operational
72-1996            7-2-1996    expenses for the period of   TSO VII
                               July 1, 1996 through June
                               30, 1997
                               Authorizing a contract with
73-1996            7-13-1996   J&C Contracting, Inc. for    TSO VII
                               the construction of the CSX
                               Depot Restoration
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Tri-Cities Paving &
74-1996            7-13-1996   Contracting, Inc. for labor, TSO VII
                               materials and supplies for
                               the resurfacing of tennis
                               courts at the city park
                               Authorizing a five-year
                               lease agreement with West
75-1996            7-13-1996   Virginia Cellular Telephone  TSO XIII
                               Corp. for an antenna site on
                               Pollard Hill
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Par Roofing, Inc. for
76-1996            7-13-1996   material and labor for       TSO VII
                               reroofing 1700 Greenup
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
77-1996            7-18-1996   with Don Hall Chevrolet,     TSO IX
                               Inc. regarding a parking and
                               landscaping encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
78-1996            7-18-1996   with Tony Workman regarding  TSO IX
                               a sign encroachment
                               Authorizing an interlocal
79-1996            7-18-1996   agreement with the City of   TSO XI
                               Catlettsburg and the
                               counties of Boyd and Greenup
                               Authorizing the submittal of
80-1996            7-18-1996   an urban and community       TSO XI
                               forestry grant application
                               Authorizing the submittal of
81-1996            7-18-1996   a grant application to the   TSO XI
                               U.S. Department of Justice
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Kentucky
82-1996            8-1-1996    Transportation Cabinet for   TSO XI
                               the bus system s capital
                               maintenance items
                               Authorizing an agreement
83-1996            8-1-1996    with Bazaar Home Fashions    TSO IX
                               regarding placement of an
                               awning
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Janice Lewis regarding
84-1996            8-1-1996    placement of a chain link    TSO XVII
                               fence; repealed by Ord. 121-
                               1996
85-1996            8-1-1996    Annexing 4431 Southern Hills TSO II
                               Drive
                               Adopting the revised
86-1996            8-1-1996    Economic Development Loan    TSO XVII
                               Program Operating Manual;
                               repealed by Ord. 159-2003
                               Amending personnel policies
87-1996            8-1-1996    and procedures regarding job TSO XVII
                               descriptions and positions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Prohibiting the carrying of
88-1996            8-15-1996   concealed deadly weapons in  130.18
                               buildings owned by the city
89-1996            8-15-1996   Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Patton Construction Co. for
90-1996            8-16-1996   labor and materials for the  TSO VII
                               construction of the city s
                               central fire station
                               Authorizing change order no.
                               1 with B&L Utility
91-1996            8-16-1996   Contractors, Inc. regarding  TSO VII
                               the 29th Street storm sewer
                               system improvements
                               Amending personnel policies
92-1996            8-16-1996   and procedures regarding job TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending personnel policies
93-1996            8-16-1996   and procedures regarding job TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               KYOVA Electrical Services,
94-1996            8-16-1996   Inc. for labor and material  TSO VII
                               for the Central Park
                               baseball lighting project
                               Authorizing a deed of
95-1996            9-5-1996    correction with Robert and   TSO XIII
                               Carolyn Sexton for property
                               located on Blackburn Avenue
                               Authorizing a contract with
96-1996            9-19-1996   Morton International, Inc.   TSO VII
                               for the purchase of rock
                               salt
97-1996            9-19-1996   Repealing Ord. 14-1981       TSO XVII
                               regarding a school bus stop
98-1996            9-19-1996   Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
                               Authorizing an agreement
99-1996            10-3-1996   with Dr. Brian Johnson       TSO IX
                               regarding a sign
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
100-1996           10-3-1996   with Ashland, Inc. regarding TSO IX
                               installation of four monitor
                               wells
                               Authorizing a release and
                               indemnity agreement with
101-1996           10-3-1996   Ashland, Inc. for the use of TSO VII
                               their facilities to conduct
                               driver training for the
                               Police Department
                               Amending personnel policies
102-1996           10-3-1996   and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               voting leave; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing change order no.
                               1 with KYOVA Electrical
103-1996           10-3-1996   Services, Inc. regarding the TSO VII
                               Central Park baseball field
                               lighting project
                               Amending procedures for the
104-1996           10-17-1996  use of city streets, rights- Not included
                               of-way or facilities for
                               street events
105-1996           10-17-1996  Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures regarding
106-1996           10-17-1996  holidays and additional      TSO XVII
                               observances; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Adopting a Bloodborne
107-1996           10-17-1996  Pathogens Exposure Control   TSO XVII
                               Plan; repealed by Ord. 77-
                               2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
108-1996           10-17-1996  with Ashland firefighters,   TSO V
                               Local 706
                               Repealing Ord. 32-1973
109-1996           11-7-1996   regarding the city-school    TSO XVII
                               recreation board
                               Authorizing the use of
                               Central Park and the parade
110-1996           11-7-1996   route by Winter Wonderland   TSO IV
                               and prohibiting commercial
                               sales or activities
                               Authorizing an amended
                               interlocal agreement with
111-1996           11-7-1996   the City of Catlettsburg and TSO XI
                               the counties of Boyd and
                               Greenup
                               Authorizing a contract with
112-1996           11-21-1996  B&L Utilities, Inc. for the  TSO VII
                               1996-97 sidewalk replacement
                               program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
113-1996           11-21-1996  for placement and            TSO VII
                               replacement of bituminous
                               asphalt material
                               Authorizing a contract with
114-1996           11-21-1996  Delta Chemical Company for a TSO VII
                               one-year supply of aluminum
                               sulfate
115-1996           11-21-1996  Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing a contract with
116-1996           11-21-1996  Huff Contracting, Inc. for   TSO VII
                               storm sewer system
                               improvements
                               Amending water rates, tap
117-1996           11-21-1996  fees, installation charges   TSO XVII
                               and service charges
                               Authorizing a memorandum of
                               agreement with the
118-1996           11-21-1996  Department for Local         TSO IV
                               Government for the use of
                               ARC 302 planning and
                               technical assistance funding
                               Authorizing a professional
                               services agreement with
119-1996           11-21-1996  Ashland Main Street, Inc.    TSO IV
                               for administration of the
                               city s ARC 302 grant
120-1996           11-21-1996  Adopting a suggestion        Not included
                               program
                               Repealing Ord. 84-1996
                               regarding an agreement with
121-1996           11-21-1996  Janice Lewis for use of the  TSO IX
                               right-of-way at 1915 Belmont
                               Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
122-1996           11-21-1996  with Gayle Potter regarding  TSO IX
                               a sign encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
123-1996           11-21-1996  with Lisa Donalson regarding TSO IX
                               a sign encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Ashland Federal Savings
124-1996           11-21-1996  Bank regarding a sign        TSO IX
                               encroachment and placement
                               of a canopy
                               Authorizing a professional
                               services agreement with
125-1996           11-21-1996  Woolpert Consultants for     TSO IV
                               consulting services for the
                               Department of Planning and
                               Community Development
                               Authorizing the installation
126                11-21-1996  of portable stop signs near  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Hager Elementary School
                               Authorizing a one-year
                               agreement with Ashland
127-1996           12-5-1996   Building Maintenance, Inc.   TSO VII
                               for furnishing janitorial
                               services
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures regarding the
128-1996           12-5-1996   city s employee evaluation   TSO XVII
                               program; repealed by Ord.
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing participation in
129-1996           12-5-1996   the Kentucky League of       TSO XI
                               Cities funding trust lease
                               financing program
                               Fixing the days, time and
130-1996           12-19-1996  place of meetings of the     30.06
                               Board of Commissioners for
                               1997
131-1996           12-19-1996  Rezoning of property         TSO XVI
                               Repeals Ord. 91-1994 and 70-
                               1995 regarding regulations
132-1996           12-19-1996  governing conditions and     TSO XVII
                               maintenance of building
                               structure; repealed by Ord.
                               106-2009
                               Authorizing the corporation
133-1996           12-19-1996  counsel to close Henderson   TSO XIV
                               Court
                               Authorizing agreement with
1-1997             1-2-1997    Richard T. Brislin regarding TSO IX
                               encroachment of a flag at
                               1125 Winchester Avenue
                               Authorizing execution of a
2-1997             1-2-1997    deed with John D. and        TSO XIII
                               Carolyn Smith for property
                               located on Catletts Creek
                               Repealing Ord. 84-1993 and
                               76-1995 and adopting the
3-1997             1-2-1997    Section 8 administrative     TSO XVII
                               plan; repealed by Ord. 17-
                               2000
4-1997             1-2-1997    Levying a bank deposit       TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax for 1996
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Morehead State
5-1997             1-16-1997   University to sublease space TSO VII
                               for Department of Criminal
                               Justice training
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with KYOVA
6-1997             2-6-1997    Electrical Services, Inc.    TSO VII
                               for construction of a
                               storage building
                               Adopting the Operating
7-1997             2-6-1997    Manual for the Micro         TSO IV
                               Enterprise Loan Fund
                               Repealing Ord. 70-1984 and
8-1997             2-6-1997    establishing a transient     TSO XVII
                               room tax and penalty;
                               repealed by Ord. 112, 2019
                               Repealing Ord. 11-1956
9-1997             2-6-1997    regarding the prohibition of TSO XVII
                               minors from playing licensed
                               pinball machine
                               Repealing Ord. 45-1963
10-1997            2-6-1997    governing the operation of   TSO XVII
                               restaurants
                               Authorizing the corporation
11-1997            2-6-1997    counsel to close Montgomery  TSO XIV
                               Avenue from 22nd Street
                               Authorizing execution of an
12-1997            2-13-1997   agreement with UK King s     TSO XIV
                               Daughters to close a portion
                               of Montgomery Avenue
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Community
                               Action Referral Service, the
13-1997            2-20-1997   sub- recipient of $4,400     TSO XI
                               from a grant under the
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Salvation
14-1997            2-20-1997   Army, the subrecipient of    TSO XI
                               $13,190 from a grant under
                               the emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Shelter of
15-1997            2-20-1997   Hope, Inc., the subrecipient TSO XI
                               of $29,740 from a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Safe Harbor
                               of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
16-1997            2-20-1997   the subrecipient of $29,360  TSO XI
                               from a grant under the
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of a
17-1997            2-20-1997   contract with Badger Meter   TSO VII
                               for the purchase of cold
                               water meters
                               Authorizing and approving
18-1997            2-20-1997   change order no. 1 with      TSO VII
                               Patton Construction Co.
                               Amending authorized
19-1997            2-20-1997   positions and adopting job   TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Prohibiting parking between
20-1997            2-20-1997   3129 and 3145 Powell Street  TSO XVII
                               and providing penalty;
                               repealed by Ord. 100-1997
                               Designating a handicapped
21-1997            2-20-1997   parking space at 1600        TSO XVII
                               Greenup Avenue; repealed by
                               Ord. 119, 2019
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Pathways,
22-1997            3-6-1997    Inc., the subrecipient of    TSO XI
                               $23,310 from a grant under
                               the emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
23-1997            3-6-1997    antenna site lease with the  TSO XIII
                               Regional Public Safety
                               Communication Center
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with J.B. Carter
24-1997            3-6-1997    regarding a sign             TSO IX
                               encroachment at 3500
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Community
25-1997            3-6-1997    Action Referral Service for  TSO IV
                               funding in the amount of
                               $25,000 for the set up and
                               relocation of a new office
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Clarence
26-1997            3-20-1997   Fields American Legion Post  TSO VII
                               #76 for the operation of the
                               concession stand in Central
                               Park
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Paul G.
27-1997            3-20-1997   Blazer High School Band      TSO VII
                               Boosters for operation of a
                               concession stand in Central
                               Park
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with 360
28-1997            3-20-1997   Communications regarding a   TSO IX
                               sign encroachment at 925
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 with J &
29-1997            3-20-1997   C Contracting, Inc., for the TSO VII
                               CSX Depot restoration
                               project
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the
30-1997            3-20-1997   Federal Transit              TSO XI
                               Administration in the amount
                               of $195,000
                               Regulating certain
31-1997            3-20-1997   activities within Central    TSO XVII
                               Park; repealed by Ord. 118-
                               2000
32-1997            3-20-1997   Naming an unnamed alley      TSO XV
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding
                               with the Commonwealth of
33-1997            3-20-1997   Kentucky, Cabinet for        TSO XI
                               Economic Development, for a
                               grant to host an upcoming
                               conference
                               Prohibiting sales from
                               temporary structures located
34-1997            3-20-1997   on private or public         TSO XVII
                               property; repealed by Ord.
                               58-1999
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with UK King s
35-1997            4-3-1997    Daughters regarding          TSO IX
                               landscaping on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               letter of agreement with
36-1997            4-3-1997    Smith Goolsby, Artis &       TSO VII
                               Reams, PSC. to conduct an
                               audit
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Lewis Barber
37-1997            4-3-1997    Shop for sidewalk            TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Authorizing the corporation
38-1997            4-3-1997    counsel to close a ten- foot TSO XIV
                               alley from Blackburn Avenue
                               to York Street
                               Amending Ord. 120-1996
39-1997            4-3-1997    regarding the suggestion     Not included
                               program
40-1997            4-3-1997    Amending budget ordinance    Not included
                               Amending authorized
                               positions and adopting
41-1997            4-3-1997    replacement job              TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending Ord. 15-1987
42-1997            4-3-1997    regarding zoning site review 157.166
                               charges
                               Authorizing execution of a
43-1997            4-3-1997    deed from Dewey and Phyllis  TSO XIII
                               Artrip for property located
                               at 1312 Beech St.
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               application with the
44-1997            4-2-1997    Department of Emergency      TSO XI
                               Services for federal
                               financial assistance
45-1997            4-17-1997   Naming an unnamed alley      TSO XV
                               Repealing Ord. 45-1979 and
                               making changes to the city s
46-1997            4-17-1997   Commission on Human Rights   TSO XVII
                               and the Americans with
                               Disabilities Act; repealed
                               by Ord. 112-1999
                               Repealing Ord. 44-1978 and
                               establishing procedural
47-1997            4-17-1997   requirements for building    151.99;
                               and demolition permits;      TSO XVII
                               fixing fees; partially
                               repealed by Ord. 73-2008
                               Amending personnel policies
48-1997            4-17-1997   and procedures regarding the TSO XVII
                               compensation plan; repealed
                               by Ord. 77-2003
                               Repealing Ord. 42-1973 and
                               authorizing payment of       34.03;
49-1997            4-17-1997   personnel in the Police      TSO XVII
                               Department for time expended
                               in court appearances
                               Authorizing execution of an
50-1997            4-17-1997   agreement with the Boyd      TSO VII
                               County Library for storage
                               of microfilm
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the
51-1997            4-17-1997   Kentucky Housing Corporation TSO XI
                               in the amount of $100,000
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
52-1997            4-17-1997   settlement agreement with    TSO VII
                               Cannonsburg Water District
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Light s
53-1997            5-1-1997    Enterprises for tree         TSO VII
                               trimming and removal
                               services
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Bill
54-1997            5-1-1997    Stapleton for the            TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension outside the city
                               limits
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the 1998 action plan in the
                               amount of $860,000 and the
55-1997            5-1-1997    consolidated plan for a      TSO IV
                               community block grant to the
                               U.S. Department of Housing
                               and Urban Development
                               Designating a 15-minute
56-1997            5-1-1997    parking space at 1613        TSO XVII
                               Winchester Avenue; repealed
                               by Ord. 103-1997
                               Establishing a Safety
57-1997            5-1-1997    Committee; repealed by Ord.  TSO XVII
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Mary Hall
58-1997            5-15-1997   Sergent regarding a sign     TSO IX
                               encroachment at 1824 Carter
                               Avenue on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of a
59-1997            5-15-1997   deed with the City of        TSO XIII
                               Catlettsburg for property
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               purchase offer/contract with
60-1997            5-15-1997   CSX Transportation, Inc. for TSO XIII
                               property located between
                               27th and 37th Streets
                               Repealing Ord. 9-1951 and
                               37-1981 and providing for
61-1997            5-15-1997   parking on certain streets   TSO XVII
                               for official vehicles;
                               providing for penalty;
                               repealed by Ord. 96-1998
                               Amending Section 8 of the
62-1997            5-15-1997   administrative plan;         TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 17-2000
                               Amending authorized
63-1997            5-15-1997   positions; repealed by Ord.  TSO XVII
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
64-1997            5-15-1997   contract with Davey          TSO VII
                               Resources Group
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Vinson Layman
65-1997            6-5-1997    regarding placement of a     TSO IX
                               fence and gates behind 3321
                               Greenup Avenue on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with James
                               McIntyre regarding placement
66-1997            6-5-1997    of a block and stucco wall   TSO IX
                               and accent lights at 3904
                               Mound Street on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Central
67-1997            6-5-1997    Baptist Church for sidewalk  TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of a
68-1997            6-5-1997    contract with B & L Utility  TSO VII
                               Contractors for repair work
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with J & C
69-1997            6-5-1997    Contracting, Inc. for the    TSO VII
                               1997-1998 sidewalk
                               replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of
70-1997            6-5-1997    participation agreements     TSO VII
                               with Entertainment
                               Publications, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Richard
71-1997            6-12-1997   Preece regarding a sign      TSO IX
                               encroachment at 2101
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Central
                               Baptist Church regarding a
72-1997            6-12-1997   sign and parking             TSO IX
                               encroachment at 600 29th
                               Street on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Cooksey
73-1997            6-12-1997   Brothers Disposal Company    TSO VII
                               for furnishing a landfill
                               location
                               Authorizing and approving
74-1997            6-12-1997   change order no. 2 with      TSO VII
                               Patton Construction Co.,
                               Inc.
                               Prohibiting parking on the
75-1997            6-12-1997   north side of 27th Street;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 102-1997
                               Prohibiting parking on the
76-1997            6-12-1997   north side of Ferry Street;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 101-1997
                               Designating two 15-minute
77-1997            6-12-1997   parking spaces on Winchester TSO XVII
                               Avenue; repealed by Ord.
                               104-1997
                               Repealing Ord. 33-1992, 138-
                               1992, 48-1995 and 38-1996    72.013;
78-1997            6-12-1997   and restricting parking on   72.999;
                               portions of Cypress Street   Ch. 75, Sch. X
                               to residents only
79                 6-12-1997   Amending Ord. 169-1995       Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               regarding stop signs
                               Authorizing the corporation
80-1997            6-12-1997   counsel to close a portion   TSO XIV
                               of Weis Street
                               Changing the date and time
81-1997            6-19-1997   of the Commissioners meeting Not included
                               for the month of July, 1997
                               Amending Ord. 79-1995
                               regarding water rates, tap
82-1997            6-19-1997   fees, installation charges,  TSO XVII
                               service charges; repealed by
                               Ord. 80-2005
                               Amending Ord. 80-1995
                               regarding sewer rates, tap
                               fees, installation charges,
83-1997            6-19-1997   service charges, industrial  TSO XVII
                               pretreatment charges,
                               penalties and interest;
                               repealed by Ord. 81-2005
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Marion
84-1997            6-26-1997   Russell regarding placement  TSO IX
                               of concrete landscape blocks
                               at 2036 Wilshire Boulevard
                               on the city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing submission of a
85-1997            6-26-1997   grant application to the     TSO XI
                               U.S. Department of Justice
                               in the amount of $26,680
                               Fixing the license fee from
86-1997            6-26-1997   the sale of alcoholic        TSO XVII
                               beverages; repealed by Ord.
                               143-2003
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures
87-1997            6-26-1997   regarding sick leave and     TSO XVII
                               disability leave; repealed
                               by Ord. 77-2003
88-1997            6-26-1997   Adopting the 1997-1998       Not included
                               annual budget
                               Amending authorized
89-1997            6-26-1997   positions; repealed by Ord.  TSO XVII
                               77-2003
                               Amending the zoning map by
                               changing the zoning
90-1997            6-26-1997   classification of a 6.554    TSO XVI
                               acre tract of land on Armco
                               Road
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
91-1997            6-26-1997   borrow funds for operational TSO VII
                               expenses
                               Authorizing execution of a
92-1997            6-30-1997   commercial multi-tenant      TSO XIII
                               lease with Greyhound Lines
                               Authorizing and approving
93-1997            7-1-1997    change order. no. 2 with J & TSO VII
                               C Contracting, Inc.
94-1997            7-1-1997    Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for 1996
95-1997            7-1-1997    Levying personal property    TSO XVIII
                               and franchise taxes for 1997
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Don Hall
96-1997            7-17-1997   Chevrolet regarding a sign   TSO IX
                               encroachment at 1800 Greenup
                               Avenue on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Robert
97-1997            7-17-1997   Powers, Jr. regarding        TSO IX
                               placement of a retaining
                               wall at 1420 Bath Avenue on
                               the city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with UK King s
                               Daughters regarding
98-1997            7-17-1997   construction of parking lots TSO IX
                               and landscaping on 24th
                               Street on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Repealing Ord. 113-1990 and
                               authorizing execution of an
                               interlocal cooperation
99-1997            7-17-1997   agreement relating to        TSO XI
                               participation in the
                               Regional Public Safety
                               Communication center
                               Repealing Ord. 20-1997 and
100-1997           7-17-1997   prohibiting parking between  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               3129 and 3145 Powell Street
                               Repealing Ord. 76-1997 and
101-1997           7-17-1997   prohibiting parking on Ferry Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Street
                               Repealing Ord. 75-1997 and
102-1997           7-17-1997   prohibiting parking on 27th  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Street
                               Repealing Ord. 56-1997 and
103                7-17-1997   designating a 15-minute      Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking space at 1613
                               Winchester Avenue
                               Repealing Ord. 77-1997 and
                               designating two 15- minute
104-1997           7-17-1997   parking spaces at 2333       TSO XVII
                               Winchester Avenue; repealed
                               by Ord. 49-2000
                               Repealing Ord. 85-1995 and
105-1997           7-17-1997   amending the salary          TSO XVII
                               schedule; repealed by Ord.
                               67-1998
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Becky Fannin
106-1997           8-7-1997    regarding a sign and parking TSO IX
                               encroachment at 2346
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Jim Manihan,
107-1997           8-7-1997    Johnson s Dairy, for         TSO VII
                               sidewalk replacement under
                               the 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Kentucky Bank
108-1997           8-7-1997    and Trust for sidewalk       TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures
109-1997           8-7-1997    regarding disability and     TSO XVII
                               accommodation; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending authorized
                               positions and adopting
110-1997           8-7-1997    replacement job              TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Repealing Ord. 45-1994 and
                               adopting the 1997 Kentucky
                               Building Code, 1996
111-1997           8-7-1997    International Mechanical     TSO XVII
                               Code, 1995 CABO Model Energy
                               Code and 1995 CABO One- and
                               Two-Family Dwelling Code;
                               repealed by Ord. 15-2002
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Mark Pratt
                               regarding placement of a
112-1997           8-7-1997    handicap access ramp and     TSO IX
                               entry steps at 2209 Central
                               Avenue on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the U.S.A.
                               General Services
113-1997           9-4-1997    Administration regarding     TSO IX
                               placement of a fence and
                               gates behind 1405 Greenup
                               Avenue on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Petroleum
                               Company regarding
114-1997           8-21-1997   installation of two monitor  TSO IX
                               wells at 21st Street and
                               Greenup Avenue on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Becky s Sweet
115-1997           8-21-1997   Shoppe, for sidewalk         TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Kurt Jenicke,
116-1997           8-21-1997   MD for sidewalk replacement  TSO VII
                               under the 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement program
                               Providing for the
117-1997           8-21-1997   advertisement and sale of a  TSO X
                               gas pipeline franchise
                               Fixing the tax levy on the
118-1997           8-21-1997   bank deposit franchise tax   TSO XVIII
                               for 1997
                               Providing for a one-time
                               amnesty period for filing
119-1997           8-21-1997   delinquent net profits       TSO XVII
                               license fee returns;
                               repealed by Ord. 148-2003
                               Authorizing the execution of
120-1997           8-21-1997   a deed with Jeddie Bowling   TSO XIII
                               for property at 619 10th
                               Street
                               Authorizing execution of a
121-1997           8-21-1997   deed with Helen Hunt for     TSO XIII
                               property at 623 10th Street
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Ralph Beadle
122-1997           9-4-1997    for sidewalk replacement     TSO XVII
                               under the 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement program;
                               repealed by Ord. 42-1999
                               Amending Ord. 45-1978
123-1997           9-4-1997    regarding one-way traffic;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 16-2000
124                9-4-1997    Prohibiting parking on the   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               east side of Ringo Street
125                9-4-1997    Prohibiting parking on the   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               south side of Putnam Street
126                9-4-1997    Amending Ord. 169-1995       Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               regarding stop signs
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Bill and Pat
127-1997           9-18-1997   Gray for sidewalk            TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with C.J. Rylands
128-1997           9-18-1997   for sidewalk replacement     TSO VII
                               under the 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement program
129                9-18-1997   Amending Ord. 169-1995       Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               regarding stop signs
                               Designating two loading/
130-1997           9-18-1997   unloading zones in the 100   TSO XVII
                               block of 15th Street;
                               repealed by Ord. 55-2009
                               Designating two additional
131                9-18-1997   handicapped parking spaces   Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               on 15th Street
                               Amending Ord. 45-1962
132-1997           10-2-1997   regarding employment of      TSO XVII
                               relatives; repealed by Ord.
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               letter of agreement with
133-1997           10-2-1997   Burlington Publishing        TSO VII
                               Systems to supplement the
                               city s code of ordinances
134-1997           10-2-1997   Establishing closing hours   112.03;
                               for game rooms/arcades       112.99
                               Authorizing and approving
135-1997           10-2-1997   change orders no. 1 and no.  TSO VII
                               2 with Huff Contracting
                               Authorizing execution of a
136-1997           10-16-1997  commercial property lease    TSO XIII
                               with Churchill s Premium
                               Cigars
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with American
137-1997           10-16-1997  Electric Power for           TSO VII
                               installation of platform
                               transformers
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with American
138-1997           10-16-1997  Electric Power for           TSO VII
                               installation and maintenance
                               services
                               Granting a ten-year
139-1997           10-16-1997  franchise to AK Steel        TSO X
                               Corporation
140                10-16-1997  Amending Ord. 169-1995       Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               regarding stop signs
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures regarding
141-1997           10-16-1997  benefits insurance and       TSO XVII
                               clothing allowances;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Prohibiting parking on the
142                11-6-1997   southwest corner of Pollard  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Road
                               Authorizing execution of an
143-1997           11-6-1997   agreement with Ashland       TSO VII
                               Building Maintenance for
                               janitorial services
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Community
144-1997           11-6-1997   Action Referral Service, the TSO XI
                               subrecipient of $3,100 from
                               a grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Salvation
145-1997           11-6-1997   Army, the subrecipient of    TSO XI
                               $6,798 from a grant under
                               the emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Safe Harbor
                               of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,
146-1997           11-6-1997   the subrecipient of $25,967  TSO XI
                               from a grant under the
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Shelter of
147-1997           11-6-1997   Hope, Inc., the subrecipient TSO XI
                               of $54,135 from a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
148-1997           11-6-1997   contract with Morton         TSO VII
                               International, Inc. for the
                               purchase of rock salt
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Wendy s
                               International for sidewalk
149-1997           11-6-1997   replacement under the 50/50  TSO XVII
                               sidewalk replacement
                               program; repealed by Ord.
                               43-1999
                               Repealing Ord. 2-1991 and
                               establishing minimum
150-1997           11-6-1997   regulations governing        TSO XVII
                               storage, handling and use of
                               hazardous substances;
                               repealed by Ord. 101-1999
                               Adopting the 1997 National
151-1997           11-6-1997   Fire Codes; repealed by Ord. TSO XVII
                               66-2007
                               Adopting revised job
152-1997           11-6-1997   descriptions; repealed by    TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with P. B. & S.
153-1997           11-20-1997  Chemical Company for water   TSO VII
                               and wastewater treatment
                               chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
154-1997           11-20-1997  contract with HVC, Inc.      TSO VII
                               water and wastewater
                               treatment chemicals
                               Authorizing the execution of
155-1997           11-20-1997  a contract with A.P.G. Lime  TSO VII
                               Corp. for pebble lime
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedure regarding
156-1997           11-20-1997  injuries and accidents       TSO XVII
                               occurring during the course
                               of employment; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing the execution of
157-1997           11-20-1997  a contract with Morehead     TSO XIII
                               State University to sublease
                               space
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               an agreement with Bob and
158-1997           11-20-1997  Nancy Tilton for sidewalk    TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Authorizing the use of
159-1997           11-20-1997  Central Park and the parade  TSO IV
                               route by Winter Wonderland
                               Authorizing the corporation
                               counsel to close a 15- foot
160-1997           11-20-1997  right-of-way in an alley     TSO XIV
                               between 39th and 40th
                               Streets
                               Repealing Ord. 126-1985 and
                               establishing guidelines and
161-1997           11-20-1997  procedures governing city    37.050 
                               processing and approval of   37.057
                               applications for industrial
                               revenue bonds
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the
162-1997           11-20-1997  Cannonsburg Water District   TSO VII
                               for construction of water
                               lines
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               letter of agreement with
                               Harry E. Homan regarding
163-1997           11-20-1997  construction of stairs and   TSO IV
                               enclosures at the Kentucky
                               Highlands Museum to be paid
                               with CDBG funds
                               Authorizing execution of a
164-1997           12-4-1997   contract with Coyne Textile  TSO VII
                               Services for the rental of
                               uniforms
                               Authorizing execution of a
165-1997           12-4-1997   contract with Ashland Farm   TSO VII
                               Service for the purchase of
                               work boots
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Scott Hester
166-1997           12-4-1997   regarding a sign             TSO IX
                               encroachment at 1013 Carter
                               Avenue on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Dr. Maurice
                               Oakley regarding a retaining
167-1997           12-4-1997   wall and parking             TSO IX
                               encroachment at 1901
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with city
168-1997           12-4-1997   firefighters, Local 706,     TSO V
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC
                               Repealing Ord. 23-1980
169-1997           12-4-1997   regarding a bus stop on the  TSO XVII
                               west side of 16th Street
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Mitchell and
                               Maggie Artrip regarding
170-1997           12-18-1997  placement of a handicap      TSO IX
                               access ramp at 3000 Central
                               Avenue on the city s right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Fairfax, Inc.
171-1997           12-18-1997  for the purchase of all      TSO VII
                               material and labor for the
                               replacement of a roof
                               Amending the zoning map by
172-1997           12-18-1997  changing the zoning          TSO XVI
                               classification of 123 17th
                               Street
                               Amending the zoning map by
                               changing the zoning
173-1997           12-18-1997  classification of Lot 5 and  TSO XVI
                               parts of Lots 6 and 8 on
                               17th Street
                               Fixing the days, time and
174-1997           12-18-1997  place for meetings of the    30.06
                               Board of Commissioners for
                               1998
                               Regulating sale of alcoholic
1-1998             1-6-1998    beverage; repealed by Ord.   TSO XVII
                               78-1998
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with the
2-1998             1-6-1998    Transportation Cabinet for   TSO VII
                               the bus system s capital
                               maintenance items
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Bill Dudding
                               for installation of a water
3-1998             1-6-1998    line extension outside the   TSO XVII
                               city limits on 711 W. Little
                               Garner Rd.; repealed by Ord.
                               44-1999
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Ashland
4-1998             1-15-1998   Marble, Inc. regarding       TSO IX
                               placement of a fence at 28th
                               and Mill Streets on the city
                               s right-of-way
5-1998             1-15-1998   Amending the zoning          157.206
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Ashland Women
6-1998             2-5-1998    s Care for sidewalk          TSO VII
                               replacement under the 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of a
7-1998             2-5-1998    contract with Badger Meter,  TSO VII
                               Inc. for the purchase of
                               cold water meters
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with AMTRAK for
8-1998             2-5-1998    the use of stopping and      TSO VII
                               using the common areas of
                               the city s transportation
                               center
                               Authorizing corporation
                               counsel to institute an
9-1998             2-5-1998    action to close a portion of TSO XIV
                               an alley between 8th and 9th
                               Streets and Carter and
                               Central Avenues
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               one-year contract with
10-1998            2-19-1998   Allied Colloids, Inc. for    TSO VII
                               the purchase of dry cationic
                               polymer
                               Authorizing execution of a
11-1998            2-19-1998   one-year contract with Geo   TSO VII
                               Specialty Chemicals for the
                               purchase of aluminum sulfate
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Pepsi Cola
12-1998            2-19-1998   Bottling Co. for the         TSO VII
                               purchase of providing a
                               vending machine in the city
                               s transportation center
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               deed with Riggs Machine &
13-1998            2-19-1998   Fabricating for Lots 39 and  TSO XIII
                               40 of the Clyffeside Park
                               property
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               deed with Riggs Machine &
14-1998            2-19-1998   Fabricating for Lots 30 and  TSO XIII
                               41 of the Clyffeside Park
                               property
                               Repealing Ord. 168-1995 and
15-1998            2-15-1998   adopting revised Drug and    TSO XVII
                               Alcohol Policy; repealed by
                               Ord. 154-2000
16-1998            2-19-1998   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Around the
17-1998            3-5-1998    Corner LLC regarding         TSO IX
                               placement of brick patio and
                               walk at 1622 Carter Avenue
                               on the city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Burlile Oil
18-1998            3-5-1998    Co., Inc. regarding          TSO IX
                               placement of a sign at 501
                               13th Street on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Patricia A.
19-1998            3-5-1998    Gray regarding placement of  TSO IX
                               a new entrance at 1500
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with John D.
20-1998            3-5-1998    Meyers & Associates for      TSO VII
                               sidewalk replacement under
                               the 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement program
                               Authorizing execution of
                               easement with Robert L. and
21-1998            3-5-1998    Nancy L. Tilton for          TSO IX
                               installation of a plumbing
                               vent over 1436 Greenup
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               bill of sale to the Kentucky
                               Power Company for the
                               purchase of three poles with
21-1998            3-5-1998    associated conductor,        TSO VII
                               transformers, metering,
                               services, hardware and
                               appurtenances at the
                               wastewater treatment plant
22-1998            3-5-1998    Amending the description of  TSO IV
                               the city s Enterprise Zone
                               Authorizing execution of
23-1998            3-5-1998    amended interlocal           TSO VII
                               cooperation agreement
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               professional service
24-1998            3-5-1998    agreement with Mayes,        TSO IV
                               Suddereth and Etheredge as
                               consultants for the downtown
                               plan
                               Amending provisions for sale
25-1998            3-5-1998    of alcoholic beverages;      TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 78-1998
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contribution in aid to
                               construction agreement with
- -1998            3-19-1998   Kentucky Power Company for   TSO VII
                               installing metering, poles
                               and related facilities at
                               the wastewater treatment
                               plant
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               bill of sale to Kentucky
- -1998            3-19-1998   Power Company for the        TSO VII
                               purchase of equipment at the
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               two-year service agreement
27-1998            3-19-1998   with American Electric Power TSO VII
                               for the sewage treatment
                               plan
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               two-year service agreement
28-1998            3-19-1998   with American Electric Power TSO VII
                               for the water production
                               plant
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with John D. Meyers
30-1998            3-19-1998   & Associates for the design  TSO VII
                               and preparation of contract
                               documents for the Highlands
                               Museum
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the
31-1998            3-19-1998   Federal Transmit             TSO XI
                               Administration on behalf of
                               the Ashland Bus System
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               right-of-way easement with
32-1998            3-19-1998   the Boyd County Board of     TSO IX
                               Education for the use of
                               right-of-way to install
                               water lines
                               Amending personnel policies
33-1998            3-19-1998   and procedures regarding the TSO XVII
                               employee evaluation policy;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               general warranty deed from
                               Ashland Urban Renewal and
34-1998            3-19-1998   Community Development for    TSO XIII
                               two lots located in Patton
                               Subdivision of the Scott
                               tract
                               Repealing Ord. 97-1995 and
                               125-1995 and imposing a
35-1998            3-19-1998   license fee upon insurance   TSO XVII
                               companies; repealed by Ord.
                               21-1999
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Mountain
                               Enterprises for the
36-1998            4-2-1998    placement and replacement of TSO VII
                               bituminous asphalt material
                               for the 1998-1999 street
                               paving program
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Tri- Cities
                               Paving and Contracting for
37-1998            4-2-1998    the placement of asphalt     TSO VII
                               overlay onto existing
                               concrete sidewalks for 1998-
                               1999
                               Authorizing corporation
                               counsel to institute an
38-1998            4-2-1998    action closing an alley in   TSO XIV
                               Block 9 of the Gartrell
                               Realty Co. addition between
                               Mound and Gartrell Streets
39-1998            4-2-1998    Adopting the Hazard          Not included
                               Communication Program
40-1998            4-16-1998   Amending the consolidated    Not included
                               plan
41-1998            4-16-1998   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the
42-1998            4-16-1998   Kentucky Housing Corporation TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Heritage Bank
43-1998            3-7-1998    regarding placement of a     TSO IX
                               sign at 735 Central Avenue
                               on the city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the 1998 action plan to the
44-1998            5-7-1998    U.S. Department of Housing   TSO XI
                               and Urban Development for a
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Prohibiting parking on the
45                 5-7-1998    north side of Lexington      Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               deed with Dana Johnson and
46-1998            5-7-1998    Jill Johnson conveying real  TSO XIII
                               estate adjoining Lot 38 of
                               the Forest Hills Subdivision
                               No. 5 to the city
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               deed with Dana Johnson and
47-1998            5-7-1998    Jill Johnson conveying Lots  TSO XIII
                               39, 40, and 41 of Forest
                               Hills Subdivision No. 5 to
                               the Johnsons
                               Authorizing submission of a
49-1998            5-7-1998    highway safety grant         TSO XI
                               application to the Kentucky
                               State Police
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Southern Ohio
51-1998            5-20-1998   Trenching & Excavating for   TSO VII
                               the storm sewer system
                               improvements, phase III
                               Authorizing contract for
52-1998            - -         removal and disposal of      TSO XVII
                               sludge; repealed by Ord. 57-
                               1998
                               Amending personnel policies
53-1998            5-20-1998   and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               workers compensation;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Ashland
                               School of Beauty Culture
                               regarding placement of a
54-1998            6-4-1998    concrete stoop at the 17th   TSO IX
                               Street entrance to the
                               building located at 1654
                               Greenup Avenue on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Bluegrass
55-1998            6-18-1998   Family Medicine regarding a  TSO IX
                               parking encroachment at 2025
                               Carter Avenue on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Repealing Ord. 71-1988 and
56-1998            6-18-1998   Ord. 3-1995 and amending the 157.003;
                               zoning ordinance; repealed   TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 21-2012
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               three-year contract with
57-1998            6-18-1998   Stephens Contracting, Inc.   TSO VII
                               for the removal and disposal
                               of sludge
                               Fixing the license fee from
58-1998            6-18-1998   the sale of alcoholic        TSO XVII
                               beverages
                               Authorizing submission of a
59-1998            6-18-1998   Renaissance Kentucky Grant   TSO XI
                               application to the
                               Commonwealth of Kentucky
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with B & L Utility
60-1998            6-23-1998   Contractors for              TSO VII
                               miscellaneous concrete and
                               asphalt repair work
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with J & C
61-1998            6-23-1998   Contracting for the 1998-    TSO VII
                               1999 concrete improvement
                               program
                               Authorizing the borrowing of
62-1998            6-23-1998   funds for operational        TSO XVII
                               expenses; repealed by Ord.
                               74-1998
63-1998            6-23-1998   Levying ad valorem tax rates TSO XVIII
                               for the year 1997
                               Fixing the bank deposit
64-1998            6-23-1998   franchise tax for the year   TSO XVIII
                               1999
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               one-year contract with
65-1998            6-23-1998   Cooksey Brothers Disposal    TSO VII
                               Company for furnishing a
                               landfill location
66-1998            6-23-1998   Adopting the 1998-1999       Not included
                               budget
                               Repealing Ord. 25-1991 and
                               105-1997 and amending
67-1998            6-23-1998   personnel policies and       TSO XVII
                               procedures regarding the
                               salary schedule; repealed by
                               Ord. 84-2001
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Jerry Lowman
                               regarding placement of a
68-1998            7-16-1998   concrete pole fence in front TSO IX
                               of his property at 925
                               Greenup Avenue by Hertz Car
                               Sales on the city s right-
                               of- way
                               Authorizing submission of an
                               application to the U.S.
69-1998            7-16-1998   Department of Justice for a  TSO XI
                               Local Law Enforcement Block
                               Grant
                               Changing the name of 12th
                               Street from the bridge to it
71-1998            8-6-1998    s intersection with 13th     TSO XV
                               Street to Martin Luther
                               King, Jr. Boulevard
                               Amending personnel policies
72-1998            8-6-1998    and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               authorized positions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
73                 8-20-1998   Amending stop sign           Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               provisions
                               Repealing Ord. 62-1998 and
74-1998            8-20-1998   authorizing Mayor to borrow  TSO XVII
                               funds for operational
                               expenses
                               Amending personnel policies
75-1998            8-20-1998   and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               workers compensation;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing submission of an
                               application to Commonwealth
76-1998            8-20-1998   of Kentucky Department for   TSO XI
                               Local Government for
                               renovation to the Paramount
                               Arts Theater
77-1998            9-3-1998    Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Repealing Ord. 1-1998 and
                               creating the regulations for
78-1998            9-3-1998    the sale of alcoholic        TSO XVII
                               beverages; repealed by Ord.
                               143-2003
79                 9-3-1998    Designating tee loading      Ch. 75, Sch. VII
                               zones
                               Authorizing execution of a
80-1998            9-3-1998    lease agreement with         TSO VII
                               Lawrence County Fiscal Court
                               for a 1964 Pirsch Pumper
81                 9-17-1998   Amending stop sign           Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               provisions
                               Changing the zoning
82-1998            9-17-1998   classification of 1.649      TSO XVI
                               acres located at 734 Carter
                               Avenue from R-4 to B-2
                               Changing the zoning
                               classification of the
83-1998            9-17-1998   northwest intersection of    TSO XVI
                               43rd Street and Winchester
                               Avenue from I-1 to B-2
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract for the purchase of
84-1998            9-17-1998   a 6.34 acre tract of land    TSO XIII
                               owned by the Harry King
                               Lowan Estate
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Sto-Cote
                               Products for purchase of
85-1998            9-17-1998   material, labor,             TSO VII
                               installation and training of
                               personnel for the portable
                               outdoor ice skating rink
                               Authorizing execution of
                               memorandum of understanding
                               with the Tourism Development
86-1998            9-17-1998   Cabinet and the Kentucky     TSO VII
                               Highlands Museum for
                               appropriation of funds for
                               renovations
                               Authorizing execution of
                               change order no. 1 with
87-1998            10-1-1998   Southern Ohio Trenching and  TSO VII
                               Excavating regarding the
                               East Central Avenue storm
                               sewer project-phase III
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Pathways,
88-1998            10-1-1998   Inc. for a grant under the   TSO XI
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Shelter of
89-1998            10-1-1998   Hope, Inc. for a grant under TSO XI
                               the emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Salvation
90-1998            10-1-1998   Army for a grant under the   TSO XI
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Safe Harbor,
91-1998            10-1-1998   Inc. for a grant under the   TSO XI
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Community
92-1998            10-1-1998   Action Referral Service for  TSO XI
                               a grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding
93-1998            10-1-1998   with the Tourism Development TSO VII
                               Cabinet for appropriation of
                               funds for the city s summer
                               motion concerts
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Home for the
94-1998            10-15-1998  Holidays, Inc. regarding a   TSO IX
                               sign encroachment at 423
                               21st Street on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Changing the zoning
                               classification of Lots 4 and
95-1998            10-15-1998  5 located between Mall Road, TSO XVI
                               7th Street and a private
                               road from I-2 to B-2
                               Repealing Ord. 61-1997 and
                               providing parking on Market
96-1998            10-15-1998  Street and upon certain      TSO XVII
                               property; repealed by Ord.
                               122-2004
                               Amending personnel policies
97-1998            10-15-1998  and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               authorized positions;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Repealing Ord. 114-1993 and
                               Ord. 46-1994 and
                               establishing procedural
98-1998            10-15-1998  regulations and              TSO XVII
                               qualifications for hiring
                               within the Fire Department;
                               repealed by Ord. 134-1999
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               interlocal cooperation
99-1998            11-5-1998   agreement regarding the      TSO VII
                               Workforce Investment Act of
                               1998
                               Amending personnel policies
100-1998           11-5-1998   and procedures regarding job TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing the use of
101-1998           11-19-1998  Central Park and parade      TSO IV
                               route
                               Authorizing execution of
102-1998           11-19-1998  agreement with Bill Hall     TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment on
                               the city s right-of- way
                               Authorizing execution of
103-1998           11-19-1998  agreement with David Payne   TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment on
                               the city s right- of-way
                               Authorizing a grant
104-1998           11-19-1998  agreement with the Kentucky  TSO XI
                               Housing Corporation
105-1998           11-19-1998  Authorizing installation of  Not included
                               a stop sign
                               Designating two 15-minute
106-1998           11-19-1998  parking spaces at 1539       Ch. 75, Sch. VIII:
                               Winchester Avenue; repealed  TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 4-2003
                               Changing zoning
                               classification of 1.125
107-1998           11-19-1998  acres located between 6th    TSO XVI
                               Street and Front Street from
                               I-2 to B-2
108-1998           11-19-1998  Granting ten-year franchise  TSO X
                               1998-2003 to Columbia Gas
                               Amending personnel polices
                               and procedures, Ord. 25-
109-1998           11-19-1998  1991, sick leave and         TSO XVII
                               disability; repealed by Ord.
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Heritage Green LLC RE:
110-1998           12-3-1998   parking encroachment, 855    TSO IX
                               Central Ave. on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing a grant
111-1998           12-3-1998   application to the Kentucky  TSO XI
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Designating handicap parking
112                12-3-1998   space at 1622 Carter Avenue  Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               on city right-of-way
                               Fixing days, time and place
113-1998           12-3-1998   for Commission meetings      30.06
                               during calendar year 1999
                               Amending personnel policies,
114-1998           12-3-1998   Ord. 25-1991, Part II:       TSO XVII
                               employment of relatives;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing a grant
115-1998           12-3-1998   application to the Kentucky  TSO XI
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Authorizing agreement with
116-1998           12-17-1998  Nick Jones re parking        TSO IX
                               encroachment, 1209 Carter
                               Avenue on city right-of- way
117-1998           12-17-1998  Authorizing agreement with   TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
                               Authorizing change order no.
                               2 with Southern Ohio
118-1998           12-17-1998  Trenching & Excavating re    TSO VII
                               East Central Avenue storm
                               sewer project - phase III
                               Authorizing issuance of
                               cultural and recreational
119-1998           12-17-1998  development revenue bonds,   TSO III
                               series 1998 (Ashland Area
                               YMCA)
                               Designating carriage only
120-1998           12-17-1999  parking in 300 block of 15th Not included
                               St. beginning January 1,
                               1999 - September 30, 1999
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with John B.
1-1999             1-7-1999    Christie regarding a sign    TSO IX
                               encroachment on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with John D.
                               Stafford, Stafford
2-1999             1-7-1999    Motorsports, for sign        TSO IX
                               encroachment at 2700 Greenup
                               Ave., on city s right- of-
                               way
                               Authorizing contract with
3-1999             1-7-1999    GEO Specialty Chemicals,     TSO VII
                               Inc. for one-year supply of
                               aluminum sulfate
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Morton
4-1999             1-7-1999    International Salt Div. for  TSO VII
                               purchase of 1,500 tons of
                               treated rock salt
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Lennis Adkins
5-1999             1-7-1999    for installation of water    TSO VII
                               line extension outside city
                               limits on Little Garner Road
                               Amending Zoning Ord. 101-
                               1986, to allow antennas in a 157.183;
6-1999             1-21-1999   B-3 Zone and to implement    157.206;
                               new guidelines for Planned   157.208
                               Unit Development
                               Authorizing institution of
                               an action to close a 15 ft.
                               wide alley immediately
7-1999             1-21-1999   behind the Paramount Arts    TSO XIV
                               Center on south side for
                               distance of 124.15 ft. east
                               from 13th Street
                               Authorizing execution of
                               professional service
                               agreement addendum with
                               Woolpert LLP for
8-1999             2-4-1999    professional consulting      TSO VII
                               services for East Central
                               Ave. neighborhood
                               improvements Chateroi Street
                               expansion
                               Authorizing an agreement
9-1999             2-4-1999    with AVI Food Systems, Inc.  TSO VII
                               for vending machines located
                               on City property
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Badger Meter,
10-1999            2-18-1999   Inc. for purchase of various TSO VII
                               sizes of cold water meters
                               for 1998
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Chemical
11-1999            2-18-1999   Resources, Inc. for one-year TSO VII
                               supply of hydrofluosilicic
                               acid
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Chemical
12-1999            2-18-1999   Resources, Inc. for one-year TSO VII
                               supply of powdered activated
                               carbon
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Chemical
13-1999            2-18-1999   Resources, Inc. for one-year TSO VII
                               supply of potassium
                               permanganate
                               Authorizing execution of
14-1999            2-18-1999   contract with HVC, Inc. for  TSO VII
                               one-year supply of liquid
                               caustic soda
                               Authorizing execution of
15-1999            2-18-1999   contract with HVC, Inc. for  TSO VII
                               one-year supply of liquid
                               chlorine
                               Authorizing execution of
16-1999            2-18-1999   contract with P.B. & S.      TSO VII
                               Chemical, Inc. for one-year
                               supply of sulfer dioxide
                               Authorizing execution of
17-1999            2-18-1999   contract with Stockhausen,   TSO VII
                               Inc. for one-year supply of
                               liquid polymer flocculant
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Morehead State
                               University to sublease space
18-1999            2-18-1999   in the MSU Ashland facility  TSO VII
                               for Dept. of Criminal
                               Justice training for Police
                               Department
                               Authorizing execution of
                               documents between Ashland
                               Community Development Agency
19-1999            3-4-1999    Public Housing Authority and TSO IV
                               Class Bank for refinancing
                               of property located at 1436
                               Greenup Avenue for Section 8
                               housing program
                               Creating an occupational
20-1999            3-18-1999   license fee and repealing    TSO XVII
                               Ord. 116-1993; repealed by
                               Ord. 58-1999
                               Imposing a license fee upon
21-1999            3-18-1999   insurance companies engaging 119.01;
                               in business in city limits   119.05
                               at 10 effective 7-1-1999
                               Authorizing execution of
                               service agreement with
22-1999            3-18-1999   Kentucky Power Co. for two-  TSO VII
                               year period for electrical
                               contracting services for
                               Dept. of Public Services
                               Authorizing execution of
23-1999            3-18-1999   contract with APG Lime Corp. TSO VII
                               for purchase of 1.4-in.
                               pebble lime
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Universal
24-1999            3-18-1999   Coach Parts, Inc. for        TSO VII
                               purchase of replacement bus
                               engine
                               Authorizing deed of
                               conveyance with Eastern
25-1999            3-18-1999   Kentucky Firemen s           TSO XIII
                               Association for real estate
                               along Roberts Drive
                               Authorizing quitclaim deed
                               for abandoned ten feet
26-1999            3-18-1999   easement on Chestnut Hill    TSO IX
                               Drive to Kenneth & Martha A.
                               Williams and Linton Wells
                               Creating Div. of Recreation,
                               Div. of Park Maintenance
27-1999            3-18-1999   creating the Board of Park   TSO XVII
                               Commissioners, City Tree
                               Board and repealing Ord. 32-
                               1973, Ord. 63-1978
                               Authorizing execution of
28-1999            4-1-1999    agreement with Superior      TSO IX
                               Chrysler/Plymouth/Dodge/Jeep
                               Eagle for sign encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Tom Burnette,
29-1999            4-1-1999    Office Furniture USA, for    TSO IX
                               sign encroachment at 2781
                               Winchester Ave. on city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing grant
30-1999            4-1-1999    application to Federal       TSO XI
                               Transit Adm. on behalf of
                               Ashland Bus System
                               Amending Section 5 of Ord.
                               80-1995, sewer rates, tap
31-1999            4-1-1999    fees, installation charges,  Not included
                               service charges, industrial
                               retreatment charges
                               Amending standard operating
                               policy for employee
                               evaluation program in
32-1999            4-1-1999    personnel policies and       TSO XVII
                               procedures adopted by Ord.
                               25, 1991; repealed by Ord.
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing grant
                               application to Kentucky
                               Housing Corp. under
                               emergency shelter grant
33-1999            4-1-1999    program to be distributed to TSO XI
                               Pathways, Shelter of Hope,
                               Safe Harbor Spouse Center &
                               Community Assistance
                               Referral Service (YWCA)
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Paramount Arts Center and
34-1999            4-15-1999   Louis & Henry Group for      TSO IV
                               design and construction of
                               the addition and renovation
                               of stage house
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Columbia Gas
35-1999            4-15-1999   of Kentucky for relocation   TSO IV
                               of gas service for new stage
                               house addition at Paramount
                               Arts Center
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with GTE South for
                               modification and/or
36-1999            4-15-1999   adjustment facilities for    TSO IV
                               relocation of telephone
                               service for new stage house
                               addition at Paramount Arts
                               Center
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Heritage
37-1999            4-15-1999   Green LLC re certain         TSO IV
                               improvements in a
                               redevelopment area
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Boyd County
                               Emergency Ambulance service
38-1999            4-15-1999   allowing certain city        TSO VII
                               employees to use automated
                               external defibrillation
                               equipment
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Cannonsburg Water District
39-1999            4-15-1999   re construction of water     TSO VII
                               line in Grandview Lake Road
                               area
                               Changing zoning
                               classification property 3100
40-1999            4-15-1999   13th St. from R-5,           TSO XVI
                               Residential, Medium Density,
                               to B-2 General Business
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for
41-1999            4-15-1999   demolition of 3349 Central   TSO VII
                               Avenue, (rear bldg.) 1012
                               Belmont Street and 2833
                               Greenup
                               Repealing Ord. 122-1997,
42-1999            4-15-1999   agreement with Ralph Beadle  TSO XVII
                               for sidewalk replacement
                               under 50/50 sidewalk
                               Repealing Ord. 149-1997,
                               agreement with Wendy s,
43-1999            4-15-1999   Ints. for sidewalk           TSO XVII
                               replacement under 50/50
                               sidewalk
                               Repealing Ord. 3-1998,
                               agreement with Bill Dudding
44-1999            4-15-1999   for water line ext. at 711   TSO XVII
                               West Little Garner Rd.
                               outside city limits
                               Authorizing execution of
                               letter of understanding with
45-1999            4-15-1999   Power Co. for relocation of  TSO IV
                               power lines and service for
                               new stage house addition at
                               Paramount Arts Center
                               Authorizing submission of
                               amended community
46-1999            5-6-1999    development block grant 1998 TSO IV
                               action plan to Federal Dept.
                               of HUD
                               Authorizing submission of
47-1999            5-6-1999    1999 action plan, $855,000   TSO IV
                               for CDBG grant to U.S. Dept.
                               of HUD
                               Acknowledging franchise
                               transfer of Frontier Vision
48-1999            5-6-1999    Operating Partners, L.P. to  TSO X
                               Adelphia Communications
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of
49-1999            5-6-1999    memorandum of understanding  TSO IV
                               with Paramount Arts Center
                               re Paramount Theater Project
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Five State
50-1999            5-20-1999   Properties LLC, for sign and TSO IX
                               parking encroachment at 2160
                               Carter Avenue on city right-
                               of-way
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               John M. Redmond for
51-1999            5-20-1999   encroachment for driveway at TSO IX
                               2548 Hilton Ave. in city
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Paramount Arts Center for
                               encroachment for structural
52-1999            5-20-1999   columns and protection       TSO IX
                               carriers with signs at 1300
                               Winchester Ave. on city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing agreement with
53-1999            5-20-1999   Parsons Furniture, Inc. 1638 TSO VII
                               Winchester Ave. 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Rail Construction Co. for
54-1999            5-20-1999   demolition of 2800           TSO VII
                               Montgomery Ave., 3000 Bath
                               Ave., 4117 Hart St. and 1712
                               Hilton Ave
                               Authorizing grant
                               application to U.S. Dept.
55-1999            5-20-1999   HUD for welfare-to-work      TSO XI
                               Section 8 tenant based
                               assistance program
                               Fixing ad valorem tax levy
                               for year 1998, payable in
56-1999            5-20-1999   year 1999, on real estate,   TSO XVIII
                               personal property and
                               franchises
                               Fixing tax levy for year
57-1999            5-20-1999   1999, payable 2000, on bank  TSO XVIII
                               deposits franchise tax
                               Repealing Ord. 116-1993; 34-
                               1997 and 20-1999, and
58-1999            5-20-1999   creating an occupational     TSO XVII
                               license fee charged to
                               businesses; repealed by Ord.
                               110-2001
                               Amending authorized
                               positions by adding
                               Occupational Tax Clerk,
                               reducing no. of positions in
59-1999            5-20-1999   Dept. of Public Services and TSO XVII
                               eliminating position in
                               Dept. of Planning and CD-
                               Ord. 25-1991; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing contract with
60-1999            5-20-1999   Light s Enterprise, Inc. for TSO VII
                               relocation of log house
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Curtis Livingston for
61-1999            6-3-1999    encroachment for driveway at TSO IX
                               2333 Broad St. on city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing lease agreement
                               with FIVCO Area Development
                               District re parking lot
62-1999            6-3-1999    located on southwest corner  TSO VII
                               of 14th Street and
                               Winchester Avenue serving G.
                               B. Johnson Bldg. 1401
                               Winchester
                               Authorizing letter to State
                               of Kentucky stating Woolpert
63-1999            6-3-1999    Engineering prepare design   TSO IV
                               for relocation of utilities
                               on 13th St. project
                               Prohibiting parking on north
                               side of Montgomery Ave. from
64                 6-3-1999    intersection of 8th St. to   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               its intersection with 10th
                               Street and repealing Ord. 4-
                               1959
                               Prohibiting parking in the
65                 6-3-1999    100 block of 17th Street     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               repealing Ord. 120, 1984
                               Amending Sections 7, 35, 38
                               Ord. 78-1998, regulation of
66-1999            6-3-1999    alcoholic beverages in       TSO XVII
                               limited sale precincts;
                               repealed by Ord. 143-2003
                               Amending Section 1 Ord. 129-
67-1999            6-3-1999    1987, amending boundaries of TSO IV
                               Enterprise Zone
                               Authorizing amended
                               interlocal agreement with
68-1999            6-3-1999    City of Russell, City of     TSO IV
                               Catlettsburg and counties of
                               Boyd and Greenup
                               Amending Section 1 of Ord.
                               12-1980, fixing the hours
69-1999            6-17-1999   which city owned parks shall TSO XVII
                               be closed to the public;
                               repealed by Ord. 118-2000
                               Authorizing grant agreement
70-1999            6-17-1999   with Kentucky Housing Corp.  TSO XI
                               re Renaissance Kentucky
                               Authorizing amended
                               interlocal agreement with
71-1999            6-17-1999   Cities of Catlettsburg,      TSO XI
                               Bellefonte and County of
                               Boyd re RPSCC
                               Prohibiting parking on east
                               side of 23rd St. from
72                 6-17-1999   Montgomery Ave. to Bath Ave. Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               and south side of Bath Ave.
                               between parking lot
                               entrances
                               Amending Ord. 169-1995, stop
73-1999            6-17-1999   sign ord., authorizing sign  Not included
                               northbound on Wade St. at
                               intersection with Turner St.
                               Changing zoning
                               classification of property
74-1999            6-17-1999   2221, 2227 and 2229 Bath     TSO XVI
                               Ave. from R-5 Residential,
                               to B-2 General Business
                               Changing zoning
                               classification of property
75-1999            6-17-1999   3205 13th St. from R-5,      TSO XVI
                               Residential, to B-2 General
                               Business
76-1999            6-17-1999   Approving and adopting 1999- Not included
                               2000 budget
                               Authorizing contract with
77-1999            6-24-1999   Cooksey Brother Disposal     TSO VII
                               Co., Inc. for suitable
                               landfill for two years
                               Adopting replacement job
                               descriptions for Ombudsman
78-1999            6-24-1999   and Fire Inspector, as       TSO XVII
                               adopted by Ord. 25-1991;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Fixing regulatory license
                               fees at 3.5 of gross
                               receipts from sale of
79-1999            6-24-1999   alcoholic beverages during   TSO XVII
                               fiscal year 7-1-1999 to 6-
                               30-2000; repealed by Ord.
                               143-2003
                               Amending Part VI: benefits,
                               insurance, of personnel
80-1999            7-1-1999    policies and procedures as   TSO XVII
                               adopted by Ord. 25-1991;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Adopting Ashland Bus System
81-1999            7-1-1999    disadvantaged business       TSO XI
                               enterprise program plan,
                               U.S. Dept. of Transportation
                               Authorizing contract with
82-1999            7-1-1999    ASL Excavating, Inc. for     TSO IV
                               35th St./Chatteroi St.
                               relocation project
                               Amending personnel policies
83-1999            7-15-1999   and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               injuries and accidents;
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Closing a portion of an
84-1999            7-15-1999   alley off of Hunt St.;       TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 02-2005
                               Authorizing agreement with
85-1999            7-15-1999   Jane Nelson for installation TSO VII
                               of a water line extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the First
86-1999            7-15-1999   Church of the Nazarene re an TSO IX
                               encroachment on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               the Community Action
87-1999            7-15-1999   Referral Service for a grant TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing agreement with
88-1999            7-15-1999   Pathways, Inc. for a grant   TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing agreement with
89-1999            7-15-1999   Safe Harbor for a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing agreement with
90-1999            7-15-1999   the Salvation Army for a     TSO XI
                               grant under the emergency
                               grant program
                               Authorizing agreement with
91-1999            7-15-1999   Shelter of Hope, Inc. for a  TSO XI
                               grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Polyanne
92-1999            8-5-1999    Sager regarding an           TSO IX
                               encroachment on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing agreement with
93-1999            8-5-1999    the Cannonsburg Water        TSO VII
                               District for District for
                               construction of water lines
                               Authorizing submission of a
94-1999            8-5-1999    grant application to the     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Division of
                               Forestry
                               Authorizing the borrowing of
                               funds for operational
95-1999            8-5-1999    expenses for the period July TSO VII
                               1, 1999, through June 30,
                               2000
                               Authorizing of agreement
96-1999            8-19-1999   with Kentucky Transportation TSO IV
                               Cabinet for repair of
                               traffic signals
                               Authorizing execution of
97-1999            8-19-1999   contract with KYOVA          TSO IV
                               Electrical Services
                               Authorizing corporation
98-1999            8-19-1999   counsel to institute an      TSO XIV
                               action to close a portion of
                               an alley
                               Authorizing corporation
99-1999            8-19-1999   counsel to institute an      TSO XIV
                               action to close a portion of
                               Norwood Avenue
100-1999           8-19-1999   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Repealing Ord. 150-1997 and
101-1999           8-19-1999   adopting the standards of    151.02;
                               safety; repealed by Ord. 67- TSO XVII
                               2007
                               Authorizing execution of
102-1999           9-1-1999    agreement with A.K. Khanna   TSO IX
                               regarding a parking
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
103-1999           9-1-1999    agreement with Patty Sublett TSO VII
                               for installation of a water
                               line extension
                               Authorizing execution of a
104-1999           9-1-1999    contract with J & C          TSO VII
                               Contracting for concrete and
                               asphalt repair work
                               Authorizing execution of a
105-1999           9-1-1999    contract with Light          TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc. for tree
                               trimming
                               Authorizing submission of a
106-1999           9-1-1999    grant application to the     TSO XI
                               U.S. Department of Justice
                               Authorizing use of certain
107-1999           9-1-1999    streets by Poage Landing     TSO IV
                               Days
                               Authorizing execution of
108-1999           9-16-1999   agreement with Ashland Bus   TSO VII
                               System and WTCR 103 for the
                               adopt-a-bus program
                               Authorizing execution of
                               amendment to the Boyd County
109-1999           9-16-1999   interlocal cooperation       TSO XI
                               agreement for civil
                               preparedness
                               Authorizing the acceptance
110-1999           9-16-1999   of an award from the FIVCO   TSO I
                               Area Development Fund
                               Authorizing the issuance of
                               $2,665,000 principal amount
111-1999           9-16-1999   of general obligation public TSO III
                               project refunding and
                               improvement bonds
                               Repealing Ord. 46-1997 and
112-1999           10-7-1999   establishing new provisions  35.18
                               for the Human Rights
                               Commission
                               Amending authorized
                               positions and adopting
113-1999           10-7-1999   replacement job              TSO XVII
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of
114-1999           10-7-1999   agreement with the Ashland   TSO XI
                               Housing Authority to improve
                               the quality of services
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Vetter
115-1999           10-21-1999  Builders, Inc. for complete  TSO IV
                               construction of the stair
                               project for the Kentucky
                               Highlands Museum
                               Authorizing issuance of
116-1999           10-21-1999  $36,000,000 pollution        TSO III
                               control refunding revenue
                               bonds
                               Authorizing execution of
117-1999           10-21-1999  agreement with Fred Unrue    TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of a
118-1999           10-21-1999  contract with Crace          TSO VII
                               Construction for the gravity
                               filter improvement project
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Light s
119-1999           10-21-1999  Enterprises, Inc. for        TSO VII
                               demolition and removal of
                               debris
                               Authorizing execution of a
120-1999           10-21-1999  letter to the State of       TSO IV
                               Kentucky regarding design
                               and relocation of utilities
121                10-21-1999  Designating a 15-minute      Ch. 75, Sch. V
                               parking space
                               Authorizing execution of
122-1999           11-4-1999   agreement with David Carter  TSO IX
                               regarding a sign
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
123-1999           11-4-1999   agreement with Charles and   TSO IX
                               Lisa Schafer regarding a
                               fence encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
124-1999           11-4-1999   agreement with Samuel and    TSO IX
                               Sherry Corns regarding a
                               fence encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
125-1999           11-4-1999   agreement with Columbia Gas  TSO IX
                               regarding an easement for
                               relocation of a gas pipeline
                               Authorizing execution of
126-1999           11-4-1999   memorandum of understanding  TSO IV
                               with Highlands Museum
                               Authorizing use of Central
127-1999           11-4-1999   Park and the parade route by TSO IV
                               Winter Wonderland
128-1999           11-4-1999   Amending the zoning code     157.183;
                                                            157.206
                               Authorizing execution of a
129-1999           11-18-1999  contract with John D. Meyers TSO IV
                               & Associates, PSC, for
                               design of a fire station
                               Authorizing execution of a
130-1999           11-18-1999  contract with B & L          TSO IV
                               Contractors for the concrete
                               improvement program
                               Repealing Ord. 91-1995 and
                               establishing regulations for
131-1999           11-18-1999  the comprehensive hiring of  TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealed by
                               Ord. 152-2000
                               Amending personnel policies
132-1999           11-18-1999  and procedures; repealed by  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
133-1999           12-2-1999   contract with Western Branch TSO VII
                               Diesel for the replacement
                               of an engine
                               Repealing Ord. 98-1998 and
                               establishing procedural
134-1999           12-2-1999   regulations and prerequisite TSO XVII
                               qualifications for hiring
                               within the Fire Department
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Roy Scudder
135-1999           12-16-1999  regarding a fence            TSO XVII
                               encroachment; repealed by
                               Ord. 140-2003
                               Authorizing execution of
136-1999           12-16-1999  agreement with UK King s     TSO IX
                               Daughters for a sign
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Richard Meade
137-1999           12-16-1999  regarding a sign             TSO IX
                               encroachment at 1017
                               Winchester Avenue on the
                               city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Mid-Valley
138-1999           12-16-1999  Supply for the installation  TSO VII
                               of a fuel authorization/
                               management system
                               Authorizing execution of a
139-1999           12-16-1999  contract with Morton         TSO VII
                               International, Inc. for rock
                               salt
                               Amending job description for
140-1999           12-16-1999  the position of police       TSO XVII
                               officer; repealed by Ord.
                               77-2003
141-1999           12-16-1999  Repealing Ords. 3-1976, 43-  TSO XVII
                               1980
142-1999           12-16-1999  Repealing Ord. 26-1980       TSO XVII
143-1999           12-16-1999  Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
144-1999           12-16-1999  Amending the zoning code     157.183;
                                                            157.206
                               Fixing the day, time and
145-1999           12-16-1999  place for meeting of the     30.06
                               Board of Commissioners
                               Authorizing execution of a
1-2000             1-6-2000    contract with Morehead State TSO VII
                               University to sublease space
                               Authorizing execution of a
2-2000             1-20-2000   contract with Chemical       TSO VII
                               Resources, Inc. for a supply
                               of chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
3-2000             1-20-2000   contract with Delta Chemical TSO VII
                               Corporation for a supply of
                               chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
4-2000             1-20-2000   contract with HVC, Inc. for  TSO VII
                               a supply of chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
5-2000             1-20-2000   contract with HVC, Inc. for  TSO VII
                               a supply of chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
6-2000             1-20-2000   contract with Polydyne, Inc. TSO VII
                               for a supply of chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
7-2000             1-20-2000   grant agreement with the     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of
8-2000             2-3-2000    agreement with UK King s     TSO IX
                               Daughters regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Amending personnel policies
9-2000             2-3-2000    and procedures; repealed by  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending authorized
10-2000            2-3-2000    positions; repealed by Ord.  TSO XVII
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding
11-2000            2-17-2000   with the Kentucky            TSO IV
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               regarding the fire station
                               Authorizing execution of a
12-2000            2-17-2000   deed of conveyance with the  TSO XIII
                               Commonwealth of Kentucky for
                               certain real estate
                               Authorizing execution of a
13-2000            2-17-2000   lease agreement with Canon   TSO VII
                               Financial Services
                               Authorizing execution of a
14-2000            2-17-2000   lease agreement with Xerox   TSO VII
                               Corporation
15                 2-17-2000   Amending stop sign           Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               provisions
                               Repealing Ord. 45-1978 and
16-2000            2-17-2000   designating one-way streets; TSO XVII
                               partially repealed by Ord.
                               137-2000
                               Repealing Ord. 3-1997 and
                               Ord. 62-1997 and adopting
17-2000            2-17-2000   the Section 8 administrative 155.04
                               plan for the Community
                               Development Agency Public
                               Housing Authority
                               Authorizing acceptance of a
18-2000            3-2-2000    portion of a tract of land   TSO XVII
                               on 10th Street; repealed by
                               Ord. 87-2005
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               deed of conveyance with
19-2000            3-2-2000    United Ashland Ministries,   TSO XVII
                               Inc. for certain real
                               estate; repealed by Ord. 86-
                               2005
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the City of
20-2000            3-2-2000    Catlettsburg for             TSO VII
                               installation of a new water
                               line
                               Authorizing execution of
21-2000            3-2-2000    change orders with ASL       TSO VII
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
22-2000            3-2-2000    work order with Quest        TSO IV
                               Engineers for the Riverfront
                               Development Project
                               Repealing Ord. 135-1999
23-2000            3-2-2000    regarding use of a right-of- TSO XVII
                               way
24-2000            3-2-2000    Repealing Ord. 6-1969        TSO XVII
                               regarding fixed fire limits
                               Repealing Ord. 25-1992
25-2000            3-2-2000    regarding residence          TSO XVII
                               requirements for city
                               employees
                               Authorizing execution of a
26-2000            3-2-2000    contract with Light s        TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of
27-2000            3-2-2000    agreement with Sanitation    TSO VII
                               District No. 4
                               Authorizing execution of a
28-2000            3-16-2000   contract with Mountain       TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
29-2000            3-16-2000   contract with F & L          TSO VII
                               Electronics, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
30-2000            3-16-2000   deed with William R.         TSO XIII
                               Aschenaeuer
                               Authorizing execution of
31-2000            3-16-2000   agreement with city          TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
                               Authorizing execution of
32-2000            3-16-2000   application with Department  TSO XI
                               of Emergency Services
                               Authorizing execution of
33-2000            4-16-2000   agreement with Quest         TSO VII
                               Engineers for engineering
                               services
                               Authorizing execution of
34-2000            4-6-2000    professional agreement with  TSO IV
                               Quest Engineers, Inc.
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures, compensation
35-2000            4-6-2000    plan and classification      TSO XVII
                               plan; repealed by Ord. 77-
                               2003
                               Repealing Ord. 99-19994
36-2000            4-6-2000    regarding closing of an      TSO XVII
                               alley
                               Repealing Ord. 30-1948 and
37-2000            4-6-2000    52-1950 regarding issuance   TSO XVII
                               of taxicab licenses
                               Repealing Ord. 31-1948 and
38-2000            4-6-2000    89-1958 regarding licensing  TSO XVII
                               of vending machines
                               Repealing Ord. 46-1963
39-2000            4-6-2000    regarding Budget Service     TSO XVII
                               Companies
40-2000            4-6-2000    Repealing Ord. 63-1960       TSO XVII
                               imposing street usage fee
                               Authorizing execution of a
41-2000            4-6-2000    contract with Badger Meter,  TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing submission of a
42-2000            4-6-2000    grant application to the     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of
43-2000            4-20-2000   agreement with Boyd County   TSO VII
                               Fiscal Court sewer system
                               Authorizing execution of
44-2000            4-20-2000   agreement with Paul G.       TSO VII
                               Blazer High School Band
                               parents
45-2000            4-20-2000   Authorizing execution of a   TSO XIII
                               commercial property lease
                               Authorizing execution of a
46-2000            4-20-2000   grant agreement with the     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing submission of a
47-2000            4-20-2000   grant application to the     TSO XI
                               Federal Transit
                               Administration
48-2000            4-20-2000   Repealing Ord. 83-1980       TSO XVII
                               relating to taxicab fares
                               Repealing Ord. 104-1997
49-2000            4-20-2000   authorizing 15-minute        TSO XVII
                               parking spaces
                               Repealing Ord. 33-1994 and
50-2000            4-20-2000   returning a certain street   TSO XVII
                               to two-way traffic; repealed
                               by Ord. 137-2000
                               Designating quiet zones
51-2000            4-20-2000   surrounding hospital         TSO XVII
                               buildings; repealed by Ord.
                               163-2007
52                 5-4-2000    Prohibiting parking          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Authorizing execution of
53-2000            5-4-2000    agreement with Curt Justice  TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
                               agreement with Steven L.
54-2000            5-4-2000    Mason regarding an           TSO XVII
                               encroachment; repealed by
                               Ord. 107-2000
                               Authorizing execution of a
55-2000            5-4-2000    deed with Brooks Wells, Inc. TSO XIII
                               regarding purchase of
                               property
56-2000            5-4-2000    Authorizing submission of    TSO IV
                               the 2000 action plan
57-2000            5-4-2000    Adopting the PHA five-year   TSO IV
                               plan (2000-2004)
58-2000            5-4-2000    Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 1999-2000
                               Amending personnel policies
59-2000            5-4-2000    and procedures; repealed by  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Repealing Ord. 15-1943
60-2000            5-4-2000    relating to trespassing upon TSO XVII
                               any garden or orchard
                               Authorizing submission of a
61-2000            5-18-2000   grant application to the     TSO XI
                               Kentucky State Police
62                 5-18-2000   Amending Ord. 121-1999       Ch. 75, Sch. V
                               regarding 15-minute parking
                               Amending Ord. 106-1998       Ch. 75, Sch. VIII;
63-2000            5-18-2000   regarding 15-minute parking; TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 4-2003
64-2000            5-18-2000   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
65-2000            5-18-2000   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for the year 2000
66-2000            5-18-2000   Fixing the tax levy for the  TSO XVIII
                               year 2000 on bank deposits
                               Authorizing execution of
67-2000            6-1-2000    agreement with Carter Avenue TSO IX
                               Beverage Center regarding an
                               encroachment
68-2000            6-1-2000    Approving and adopting the   Not included
                               2000-2001 budget
                               Amending Ord. 79-1995
                               regarding water rates, tap
69-2000            6-1-2000    fees, installation and       TSO XVII
                               service charges; repealed by
                               Ord. 80-2005
                               Amending Ord. 80-1995
                               regarding sewer rates, tap
70-2000            6-1-2000    fees, installation and       TSO XVII
                               service charges; repealed by
                               Ord. 81-2005
                               Amending Ord. 81-1995
71-2000            6-1-2000    regarding garbage disposal;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 82-2005
                               Designating parking spaces
72                 6-1-2000    for persons with             Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               disabilities
                               Adopting replacement job
73-2000            6-1-2000    descriptions; repealed by    TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of
74-2000            6-15-2000   agreement with UK King s     TSO IX
                               Daughters regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
75-2000            6-15-2000   agreement with Joseph and    TSO VII
                               Rebekah Lombardo for a water
                               line extension
                               Fixing the regulatory
76-2000            6-15-2000   license fee on sale of       TSO XVII
                               alcoholic beverages;
                               repealed by Ord. 143-2003
77                 6-15-2000   Prohibiting parking          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
78                 6-15-2000   Amending Ord. 169-1995       Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               regarding stop signs
                               Establishing a two-hour
79-2000            6-15-2000   parking limit for commercial TSO XVII
                               loading zones; repealed by
                               Ord. 108-2011
                               Amending the compensation
80-2000            6-15-2000   plan; repealed by Ord. 77-   TSO XVII
                               2003
81-2000            7-20-2000   Changing a street name       TSO XV
                               Authorizing execution of a
82-2000            6-20-2000   deed of conveyance with      TSO XIII
                               Katherine E. Crance
                               Authorizing execution of a
83-2000            6-20-2000   contract with Paramount Arts TSO IV
                               Center
                               Amending authorized
84-2000            6-20-2000   positions; repealed by Ord.  TSO XVII
                               77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of
85-2000            7-6-2000    agreement with Aamco         TSO IX
                               Transmission regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
86-2000            7-6-2000    agreement with Donald K.     TSO IX
                               Moore regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of
87-2000            7-6-2000    agreement with Heritage Bank TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of a
88-2000            7-6-2000    lease agreement with the     TSO VII
                               Boyd County Police
                               Department
89-2000            7-20-2000   Authorizing execution of a   TSO VII
                               contract with Gary Maddox
                               Creating parking meter zones
90-2000            7-20-2000   and repealing Ord. 27-1981;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 140-2000
                               Amending the personnel
91-2000            7-20-2000   policies and procedures;     TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
92-2000            8-3-2000    contract with J & C          TSO IV
                               Contracting
93-2000            8-3-2000    Authorizing execution of a   TSO VII
                               contract with Gary Maddox
                               Authorizing and approving
94-2000            8-3-2000    change order no. 1 with      TSO IV
                               Vetter Builders, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
95-2000            8-3-2000    contract with the Community  TSO XI
                               Action Referral Service
96-2000            8-3-2000    Authorizing execution of a   TSO XI
                               contract with Pathways, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
97-2000            8-3-2000    contract with Safe Harbor of TSO XI
                               Northeast Kentucky, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
98-2000            8-3-2000    contract with the Salvation  TSO XI
                               Army
                               Authorizing execution of a
99-2000            8-3-2000    contract with the Shelter of TSO XI
                               Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of
100-2000           8-3-2000    amendment to memorandum of   TSO VII
                               understanding with the
                               Tourism Development Cabinet
                               Authorizing execution of
101-2000           8-3-2000    amendment to memorandum of   TSO VII
                               understanding with the
                               Tourism Development Cabinet
                               Authorizing execution of
102-2000           8-3-2000    administrative services      TSO VII
                               agreement with Anthem
                               Benefit Administrators
                               Authorizing execution of a
103-2000           8-17-2000   contract with B & L Utility  TSO VII
                               Contractors
                               Authorizing execution of a
104-2000           8-17-2000   contract with Huff           TSO VII
                               Contracting, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 95-1992 and
105-2000           8-17-2000   establishing animal          TSO XVII
                               restrictions; repealed by
                               Ord. 194, 2021
                               Amending Ord. 43-1943
106-2000           8-17-2000   regarding classified         Not included
                               positions under civil
                               service
                               Repealing Ord. 54-2000
107-2000           8-17-2000   authorizing execution of an  TSO XVII
                               agreement with Steven L.
                               Mason
                               Authorizing execution of a
108-2000           8-24-2000   contract with Paramount Arts TSO IV
                               Center
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding  TSO XI;
109-2000           8-24-2000   with the Finance and         TSO XVII
                               Administration Cabinet;
                               repealed by Ord. 170-2000
                               Authorizing submission of an
110-2000           8-24-2000   application for federal      TSO XI
                               assistance
                               Authorizing execution of a
111-2000           8-24-2000   deed of conveyance with      TSO XIII
                               Heritage Green
                               Authorizing execution of
112-2000           8-24-2000   agreement with Heritage      TSO XIII
                               Green
113                8-24-2000   Designating 30-minute        Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking
                               Authorizing execution of
114-2000           8-24-2000   agreement with Patricia      TSO IX
                               Miller regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
115-2000           8-24-2000   change order no. 4 with ASL  TSO IV
                               Excavating, Inc.
116-2000           8-24-2000   Amending job descriptions;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
117-2000           8-24-2000   Adopting the FIVCO strategic TSO IV
                               area development program
                               Amending the rules and
118-2000           9-7-2000    regulations of the city      Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                               parks; repealed by Ord. 36-  TSO XVII
                               2011
                               Authorizing execution of a
119-2000           9-21-2000   contract with Dillon         TSO VII
                               Construction Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
120-2000           9-21-2000   contract with J & C          TSO IV
                               Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
121-2000           9-21-2000   deed with the Commonwealth   TSO XIII
                               of Kentucky
                               Authorizing execution of an
122-2000           9-21-2000   agreement with Scott         TSO VII
                               Aviation
                               Authorizing the extension of
123-2000           9-21-2000   a commercial multi-tenant    TSO XIII
                               lease with Greyhound Lines,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing modification of
124-2000           9-21-2000   a grant agreement with the   TSO XI
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
                               Filing for loan assistance
125-2000           9-21-2000   from the federally-assisted  TSO XI
                               Drinking Water Revolving
                               Fund
126-2000           9-21-2000   Amending job descriptions;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord.77-2003
127-2000           9-21-2000   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing execution of an
128-2000           9-21-2000   encroachment or agreement    TSO IX
                               with the Department of
                               Transportation
                               Authorizing submission of a
129-2000           9-21-2000   grant application to the     TSO XI
                               U.S. Department of Justice
                               Authorizing execution of an
130-2000           9-26-2000   agreement with David and     TSO VII
                               Judy Nichols for a water
                               line extension
                               Authorizing execution of a
131-2000           9-26-2000   contract with Light s        TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
132-2000           9-26-2000   contract with Micro-Comm,    TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
133-2000           9-26-2000   purchase agreement with the  TSO VII
                               Sutphen Corporation
                               Authorizing and approving
134-2000           9-26-2000   change order no. 5 with ASL  TSO IV
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
135-2000           9-26-2000   agreement with city          TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
                               Authorizing and approving
136-2000           9-26-2000   the call for optimal         TSO III
                               redemption of utilities
                               refunding revenue bonds
                               Designating certain streets
                               as one-way and repealing
137-2000           9-26-2000   Ord. 16-2000 and Ord. 50-    TSO XVII
                               2000; repealed by Ord. 37,
                               2025
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding
                               with the Paramount Arts
138-2000           9-26-2000   Center, the Neighborgall     TSO IV
                               Construction Company and J &
                               H Reinforcing and Structural
                               Erectors, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Patton
139-2000           9-26-2000   Construction for             TSO IV
                               construction of a fire
                               station at 29th and Beech
                               Streets.
                               Creating parking meter zones
140-2000           10-19-2000  and repealing Ord. 90-2000;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 52-2016
141                10-19-2000  Designating a handicap       Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
142-2000           10-19-2000  Adopting and enacting the    Not included
                               code of ordinances
                               Authorizing execution of an
143-2000           10-19-2000  agreement with Terry Maddox  TSO VII
                               for a water line extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
144-2000           10-19-2000  agreement with the First     TSO VII
                               Baptist Church for a 50/50
                               sidewalk replacement
                               Accepting the proposal of J
                               & C Contracting, Inc. to
145-2000           10-19-2000  install electrical conduit   TSO IV
                               and underground junction
                               boxes in Linear Park
                               Authorizing execution of an
146-2000           11-2-2000   agreement with Tracy and     TSO IX
                               Anna Russell regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
147-2000           11-2-2000   agreement with the Heritage  TSO VII
                               Bank for a 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement
                               Authorizing execution of a
148-2000           11-2-2000   contract with Hourly         TSO VII
                               Computer Services, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
149-2000           11-2-2000   contract with U.S. Filter    TSO VII
                               Davis Products
                               Authorizing execution of a
150-2000           11-2-2000   work order with Quest        TSO VII
                               Engineers, Inc.
151-2000           11-2-2000   Adopting an official song of Not included
                               the city
                               Repealing Ord. 131-1999 and
                               establishing regulations for
152-2000           11-2-2000   comprehensive hiring of      TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealed by
                               Ord. 23-2002
                               Amending the job description
153-2000           11-2-2000   for police officer; repealed TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 77-2003
                               Repealing Ord. 15-1998 and
154-2000           11-2-2000   adopting revised Drug and    TSO XVII
                               Alcohol Policy; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of an
155-2000           11-16-2000  agreement with Ashland       TSO IX
                               Children s Clinic regarding
                               an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Stewart
156-2000           11-16-2000  Thornbury of Ashland Porter  TSO IX
                               Paint regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
157-2000           11-16-2000  agreement with UK King s     TSO IX
                               Daughters regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with UK King s     TSO IX;
158-2000           11-16-2000  Daughters regarding an       TSO XVII
                               encroachment; repealed by
                               Ord. 177, 2024
                               Authorizing execution of a
159-2000           11-16-2000  contract with Otis Elevator  TSO VII
                               Company
                               Authorizing and approving
160-2000           11-16-2000  change order no. 1 with      TSO IV
                               Patton Construction
                               Authorizing execution of a
161-2000           11-16-2000  deed of conveyance with Leif TSO XIII
                               E. Clarke
                               Authorizing execution of an
162-2000           11-16-2000  agreement with Robert        TSO VII
                               Thornbury for a water line
                               extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
163-2000           11-16-2000  agreement with David Porter  TSO VII
                               for a water line extension
                               Installing a mechanical
164                11-16-2000  traffic signal at 29th and   Ch. 74, Sch. X
                               Holt Streets
165-2000           11-16-2000  Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Paramount Arts
166-2000           11-16-2000  Center and Law Engineering   TSO IV
                               and Environmental Services,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
167-2000           12-7-2000   agreement with the Kentucky  TSO IX
                               Army National Guard
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
168-2000           12-7-2000   agreement with Perry J. and  TSO IX
                               Susan E. Madden regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
169-2000           12-7-2000   agreement with Mike Williams TSO VII
                               of Power Products, Inc. for
                               a sidewalk replacement
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding
170-2000           12-7-2000   with the Education, Arts and TSO XI;
                               Humanities Cabinet and the   TSO XVII
                               Paramount Arts Center and
                               repealing Ord. 109-2000
                               Authorizing and approving
171-2000           12-7-2000   change order no. 1 with      TSO IV
                               Neighborgall Construction
                               Co.
                               Authorizing execution of a
172-2000           12-7-2000   contract with Judy           TSO VII
                               Construction Company
                               Authorizing execution of a
173-2000           12-7-2000   professional agreement with  TSO IV
                               Quest Engineers, Inc.
                               Abating unreasonable and
174-2000           12-7-2000   unnecessary noise and        TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 27-1982
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of agreement with
175-2000           12-21-2000  the Commonwealth of          TSO VII
                               Kentucky, Office of the
                               Governor and the Department
                               for Local Government
176-2000           12-21-2000  Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
1-2001             1-4-2001    Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing and approving
2-2001             1-4-2001    change order no. 1 and no. 2 TSO IV
                               with J & C Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
3-2001             1-4-2001    change order no. 1 with J &  TSO IV
                               C Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
4-2001             1-4-2001    change order no. 2 with      TSO IV
                               Neighborgall Construction
                               Co.
                               Authorizing execution of an
5-2001             1-4-2001    easement with the Kentucky   TSO IX
                               Power Company
                               Adopting the 2000 S-
6-2001             1-4-2001    4 Supplement to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
                               Authorizing execution of a
7-2001             1-18-2001   contract with PB & S         TSO VII
                               Chemical Company
                               Authorizing execution of a
8-2001             1-18-2001   contract with Stockhausen,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
9-2001             1-18-2001   contract with Delta Chemical TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of a
10-2001            1-18-2001   contract with Chemical       TSO VII
                               Resources, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
11-2001            1-18-2001   contract with J & C          TSO VII
                               Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
12-2001            1-18-2001   contract with Morton         TSO VII
                               International, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
13-2001            1-18-2001   contract with Duncan         TSO VII
                               Industries
                               Authorizing and approving
14-2001            2-1-2001    change order no. 1 with      TSO VII
                               Micro-Comm, Inc.
15-2001            2-1-2001    Authorizing execution of a   TSO VII
                               contract with HVC, Inc.
                               Extending the cable
16-2001            2-1-2001    television franchise for a   TSO X
                               period of one year
                               Authorizing execution of a
17-2001            2-1-2001    professional agreement with  TSO IV
                               Quest Engineers, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
18-2001            2-15-2001   agreement with Perry J. and  TSO IX
                               Susan E. Madden regarding a
                               sign encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
19-2001            2-15-2001   change order no. 3 with J &  TSO IV
                               C Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution and
20-2001            2-15-2001   submission of a Renaissance  TSO IV
                               Kentucky 2001 direct
                               appropriation proposal
21-2001            2-15-2001   Amending zoning code table   157.206
                               of permitted uses
                               Amending zoning code to
22-2001            2-15-2001   include Hospitality House in 157.003;
                               definitions and table of     157.207
                               permitted uses
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               corporate authorization
23-2001            2-15-2001   resolution and signature     TSO VII
                               forms for Disaster and
                               Emergency Services
24-2001            2-16-2001   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Kentucky
25-2001            3-1-2001    Transportation Cabinet for   TSO IV
                               repair of city owned traffic
                               signals
                               Authorizing execution of a
26-2001            3-1-2001    contract with Badger Meter,  TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with the Northeast
27-2001            3-1-2001    Kentucky Regional Industrial TSO XI
                               Authority and the
                               Cannonsburg Water District
                               Authorizing execution of a
28-2001            3-1-2001    contract with J & C          TSO VII
                               Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
28A-2001           3-15-2001   contract with Mountain       TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
29-2001            3-15-2001   lease agreement with the     TSO VII
                               Xerox Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of a
30-2001            3-15-2001   professional agreement with  TSO IV
                               Quest Engineers, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
31-2001            3-15-2001   change order no. 1 with      TSO VII
                               Dillon Construction Co.,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
32-2001            3-15-2001   change order no. 3 with      TSO IV
                               Neighborgall Construction
                               Co.
                               Amending the community
33-2001            3-15-2001   development block grant      TSO IV
                               consolidated plan s year IV
                               action plan
34-2001            3-15-2001   Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2000-2001
35-2001            3-15-2001   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
36                 3-15-2001   Prohibiting parking on       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Kentucky Avenue
                               Authorizing execution of an
37-2001            4-5-2001    agreement with Jeffrey L.    TSO IX
                               Meade regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
38-2001            4-5-2001    change order no. 1 with      TSO IV
                               LawGibb Group
                               Authorizing execution of the
39-2001            4-5-2001    proposed FY 2002 budget for  Not included
                               the office of emergency
                               management
                               Authorizing submission of
40-2001            4-5-2001    the 2001/2002 grant          TSO XI
                               application to the Federal
                               Transit Administration
                               Providing for the
41-2001            4-5-2001    advertisement and sale of a  TSO X
                               franchise to an electric
                               power company
42-2001            4-5-2001    Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2000-2001
                               Amending personnel policies
43-2001            4-5-2001    and procedures regarding     TSO XVII
                               clothing allowance; repealed
                               by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing modification to
44-2001            4-5-2001    the FA ADE agreement         TSO XI
                               regarding Renaissance
                               Kentucky
                               Authorizing submission of a
45-2001            4-5-2001    grant application to the     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of an
46-2001            4-19-2001   agreement with the American  TSO IX
                               Legion Building Corp.
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of a
47-2001            4-19-2001   contract with Bill Enyart &  TSO VII
                               Sons Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
48-2001            4-19-2001   contract with the Crom       TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of a
49-2001            4-19-2001   contract with Kentucky Power TSO VII
                               Company
                               Authorizing and approving
50-2001            4-19-2001   change order no. 2 with      TSO VII
                               Dillon Construction Co.,
                               Inc.
51-2001            4-19-2001   Adopting the PHA one-year    TSO IV
                               plan (2001)
                               Amending the Section 8
52-2001            4-19-2001   administrative plan for the  155.04
                               Community Development Agency
                               Public Housing Authority
53-2001            4-19-2001   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Establishing guidelines and
                               procedures for financial or
54-2001            4-26-2001   in-kind contributions by the TSO XVII
                               city; repealed by Ord. 60-
                               2018
                               Authorizing execution of an
55-2001            5-3-2001    administrative services      TSO VII
                               agreement with Anthem
                               Benefit Administrators, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
56-2001            5-3-2001    contract with KYOVA          TSO VII
                               Electrical Services, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
57-2001            5-3-2001    contract with Light s        TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of understanding
58-2001            5-3-2001    with Ashland Community       TSO XI
                               Development Agency and the
                               Cabinet for Families and
                               Children
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               memorandum of agreement with
59-2001            5-3-2001    the Governor s Commission on TSO VII
                               Fire Protection and the Fire
                               Department
                               Authorizing execution of a
60-2001            5-3-2001    deed of correction with Leif TSO XVII
                               E. Clarke; repealed by Ord.
                               117-2001
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               amended interlocal agreement
                               with the Cities of
61-2001            5-3-2001    Catlettsburg and Russell and TSO IV
                               the Counties of Boyd and
                               Greenup regarding the
                               Enterprise Zone
62-2001            5-3-2001    Amending the boundaries of   TSO IV
                               the Enterprise Zone
                               Authorizing execution a
63-2001            5-17-2001   merchant services agreement  TSO VII
                               with National Processing
                               Company
                               Authorizing and approving
64-2001            5-17-2001   change order no. 1 with Judy TSO VII
                               Construction Co.
                               Adopting the city s medical
65-2001            5-17-2001   care plan, plan document and Not included
                               summary plan description
                               Providing for the orderly
                               succession of the office of
66-2001            5-17-2001   mayor in the event of a      TSO XVII
                               national or state emergency;
                               repealed by Ord. 28-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
67-2001            5-17-2001   contract with Coyne Textile  TSO VII
                               Services
                               Authorizing to submit the
68-2001            6-4-2001    2001 action plan for a       TSO IV
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Authorizing execution of an
69-2001            6-7-2001    agreement with the Ashland   TSO VII
                               Bus System and WTCR 103
                               Amending personnel policies
70-2001            6-7-2001    and procedures; repealed by  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
71-2001            6-7-2001    Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for the year 2001
                               Fixing the tax levy for the
72-2001            6-7-2001    year 2001 on the bank        TSO XVIII
                               deposits franchise tax
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Buchanan
73-2001            6-21-2001   Sound & Communications, Inc. TSO VII
                               for a 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with George Mike
74-2001            6-21-2001   Robinson for the             TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
                               Authorizing execution of a
75-2001            6-21-2001   contract with KYOVA          TSO VII
                               Electrical Services
                               Authorizing execution of a
76-2001            6-21-2001   contract with KYOVA          TSO VII
                               Electrical Services
                               Authorizing execution of a
77-2001            6-21-2001   contract with McNeil Fence   TSO VII
                               Co. of Huntington, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
78-2001            6-21-2001   change order no. 4 with      TSO IV
                               Neighborgall Construction
                               Co.
                               Authorizing and approving
79-2001            6-21-2001   change order no. 2 with      TSO IV
                               Patton Construction
80-2001            6-21-2001   Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2000-2001
                               Fixing the regulatory
81-2001            6-21-2001   license fee from the sale of TSO XVII
                               alcoholic beverages;
                               repealed by Ord. 143-2003
                               Relating to the employment
82-2001            6-21-2001   of relatives; repealed by    TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
83-2001            6-21-2001   Adopting annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2001-2002
                               Amending the salary schedule
84-2001            6-21-2001   and repealing Ord. 67-1998;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
85-2001            6-21-2001   contract with Eastern State  TSO VII
                               s Pump & Equipment, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with the Community
86-2001            6-21-2001   Action Referral Service,     TSO XI
                               subrecipient of a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Pathways,
87-2001            6-21-2001   Inc., subrecipient of a      TSO XI
                               grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Shelter of
88-2001            6-21-2001   Hope, Inc., subrecipient of  TSO XI
                               a grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Salvation
89-2001            6-21-2001   Army, subrecipient of a      TSO XI
                               grant under the emergency
                               shelter grant program
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Safe Harbor of
90-2001            6-21-2001   Northeast Kentucky, Inc.,    TSO XI
                               subrecipient of a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing modification to
91-2001            6-21-2001   the fa ade agreement         TSO XI
                               regarding Renaissance
                               Kentucky
92-2001            6-26-2001   Authorizing execution of a   TSO VII
                               contract with Verizon South
                               Authorizing execution of a
93-2001            6-28-2001   contract with ASL            TSO IV
                               Excavating, Inc. regarding
                               the Chatteroi Street project
94-2001            6-28-2001   Authorizing execution of an  TSO VII
                               agreement with Pitney Bowes
                               Adopting criteria for the
                               appointment and continued
95-2001            6-28-2001   service of members to city   35.03
                               designated boards and
                               commissions
                               Amending rules and
96-2001            6-28-2001   regulations for city parks;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 36-2011
97-2001            6-28-2001   Amending job descriptions;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of a
98-2001            6-28-2001   contract with Cooksey        TSO VII
                               Brothers Disposal Co.
                               Authorizing execution of a
99-2001            6-21-2001   contract with Stephens       TSO VII
                               Hauling
                               Authorizing to execute and
100-2001           6-28-2001   submit an application to     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Employer s Mutual
                               Insurance
                               Amending the city s medical
101-2001           7-5-2001    care plan, plan document and TSO XVII
                               summary plan description;
                               repealed by Ord. 35-2002
                               Authorizing execution of a
102-2001           7-19-2001   contract with Light s        TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
103-2001           7-19-2001   agreement with Big Sandy     TSO VII
                               Guardrail
                               Authorizing execution of a
104-2001           8-2-2001    contract with Thomas         TSO VII
                               Environmental Contracting
                               Corp.
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the
105-2001           8-2-2001    U.S. Department of Justice   TSO XI
                               for a local law enforcement
                               block grant
                               Adopting the 2001 S-
106-2001           8-2-2001    5 Supplement to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
                               Amending personnel policies
107-2001           8-2-2001    and procedures; repealed by  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending rules and
108-2001           8-2-2001    regulations of city parks;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 36-2011
                               Authorizing and approving
109-2001           8-7-2001    change order no. 1 with Bill TSO VII
                               Enyart & Sons Contracting,
                               Inc.
                               Creating occupational
110-2001           8-16-2001   license fees and repealing   TSO XVII
                               Ord. 58-1999; repealed by
                               Ord. 148-2003
111-2001           8-16-2001   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing execution of an
112-2001           9-6-2001    agreement with Edwin and     TSO IX
                               Teddy Conley regarding a
                               fence encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
113-2001           9-6-2001    agreement with Sheryl        TSO IX
                               Jackson regarding a fence
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
114-2001           9-6-2001    change order no. 2 with      TSO IV
                               LawGibb Group
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               addendum to the
115-2001           9-6-2001    administrative services      TSO VII
                               agreement with Anthem
                               Benefit Administrators, Inc.
116-2001           9-6-2001    Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2001-2002
                               Repealing Ord. 60-2001,
117-2001           9-11-2001   authorizing execution of a   TSO XVII
                               deed of correction with Leif
                               E. Clarke
                               Authorizing execution of a
118-2001           9-11-2001   deed of conveyance with Leif TSO XIII
                               E. Clarke
                               Authorizing execution of a
119-2001           9-20-2001   contract with Taylor         TSO VII
                               Chevrolet, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Paul
120-2001           9-20-2001   Baldridge for the            TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
121-2001           9-20-2001   agreement with Shawn Sergent TSO VII
                               for the installation of a
                               water line extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Louise P.
122-2001           9-20-2001   Hoy, the C.C. Price Land     TSO VII
                               Co., for a 50/50 sidewalk
                               replacement
                               Authorizing execution of a
123-2001           9-20-2001   lease agreement with the     TSO VII
                               Boyd County Fiscal Court
                               Amending personnel policies
124-2001           9-20-2001   and procedures; repealed by  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Rescheduling the regular
125-2001           9-20-2001   Commission meeting from      Not included
                               October 4, 2001 to October
                               2, 2001
                               Authorizing execution of an
126-2001           10-2-2001   agreement with Marvin and    TSO IX
                               Connie Rucker regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing a contract with
127-2001           10-2-2001   B & L Utility Contractors,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
128                10-02-2001  Authorizing installation of  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               stop signs
                               Authorizing execution of a
129-2001           10-2-2001   letter of acceptance for     TSO VII
                               transportation enhancement
                               funds
                               Authorizing execution of an
130-2001           10-2-2001   agreement with the Kentucky  TSO IV
                               Transportation Cabinet for
                               streetscape improvements
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               release for expenses
131-2001           10-2-2001   incurred by the city due to  TSO VII
                               the Martin County Coal
                               slurry discharge
                               Authorizing execution of an
132-2001           10-18-2001  agreement with Mark Breeding TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with James R. and
133-2001           10-18-2001  Stacy L. Wilburn for the     TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
                               Authorizing execution of a
134-2001           10-18-2001  contract with Light s        TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
135-2001           10-18-2001  contract with Power          TSO VII
                               Products, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreed order with
                               Catlettsburg, the
136-2001           10-18-2001  Commonwealth of Kentucky,    TSO VII
                               Natural Resources and
                               Environmental Protection
                               Cabinet
                               Authorizing execution of an
137-2001           10-25-2001  agreement with William and   TSO VII
                               Susan Short regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
138-2001           10-25-2001  agreement with Melissa Dixon TSO IX
                               and Gwyneth LaFave regarding
                               an encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
139-2001           10-25-2001  agreement with the Kentucky  TSO IV
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with James L. and
140-2001           10-25-2001  Mary A Powers for the        TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
141-2001           10-25-2001  agreement with Robert        TSO VII
                               Workman for the installation
                               of a water line extension
                               Authorizing and approving
142-2001           10-25-2001  change order no. 5 with      TSO IV
                               Neighborgall Construction
                               Co.
                               Authorizing and approving
143-2001           10-25-2001  change order no. 2 with Judy TSO VII
                               Construction Co.
                               Authorizing and approving
144-2001           10-25-2001  change order no. 1 with ASL  TSO IV
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
145-2001           10-25-2001  change order no. 1 with J &  TSO IV
                               C Contracting, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of an
146-2001           11-8-2001   agreement with Don Hall      TSO IX
                               Chevrolet regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
147-2001           11-8-2001   agreement with Teresa        TSO IX
                               Merritt regarding a fence
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
148-2001           11-8-2001   change order no. 3 and No. 4 TSO VII
                               with Dillon Construction
                               Co., Inc.
149                11-8-2001   Authorizing installation of  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               stop signs
150-2001           11-8-2001   Prohibiting parking on a     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               portion of Winchester Avenue
                               Authorizing execution of an
151-2001           11-15-2001  agreement with M. Shannon    TSO VII
                               Hall for the installation of
                               a water line extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
152-2001           12-6-2001   agreement with Anita         TSO IX
                               Stafford regarding a fence
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
153-2001           12-6-2001   agreement with Doris Meade   TSO IX
                               regarding a fence
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
154-2001           12-6-2001   change order no. 2 with ASL  TSO IX
                               Excavating Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
155-2001           12-6-2001   professional agreement with  TSO IV
                               Quest Engineers, Inc.
156-2001           12-6-2001   Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2001-2002
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with city
157-2001           12-6-2001   firefighters, Local 706,     TSO V
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC
                               Authorizing execution of a
158-2001           12-20-2001  contract with Morton         TSO VII
                               International, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
159-2001           12-20-2001  contract with Prince         TSO VII
                               Electronics
                               Authorizing and approving
160-2001           12-20-2001  change order no. 3 with ASL  TSO IV
                               Excavating, Inc.
161-2001           12-20-2001  Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2001-2002
                               Adopting the 2001 S-
162-2001           12-20-2001  6 Supplement to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
163-2001           12-20-2001  Amending job descriptions;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
164-2001           12-20-2001  Designating December 24 a    Not included
                               holiday for 2001 only
                               Authorizing execution of a
1-2002             1-3-2002    contract with Light s        TSO VII;
                               Enterprises, Inc.; repealed  TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 34-2002
                               Authorizing execution of a
2-2002             1-3-2002    contract with Rail           TSO VII
                               Construction
                               Authorizing execution of a
3-2002             1-3-2002    contract with B & L Utility  TSO VII
                               Contractors, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
4-2002             1-3-2002    change order no. 1 with Crom TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of an
5-2002             1-17-2002   agreement with KKM           TSO IX
                               Properties regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of a
6-2002             1-17-2002   contract with Prince         TSO VII
                               Electronics
                               Authorizing execution of a
7-2002             1-17-2002   contract with Brenntag Mid-  TSO VII
                               South, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
8-2002             1-17-2002   contract with Chemicals,     TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
9-2002             1-17-2002   contract with CIBA Specialty TSO VII
                               Chemicals Corp.
10-2002            1-17-2002   Authorizing execution of a   TSO VII
                               contract with Vopak USA Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
11-2002            1-17-2002   contract with Chemical       TSO VII
                               Resources, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
12-2002            1-17-2002   contract with GEO Specialty  TSO VII
                               Chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
13-2002            1-17-2002   contract with Delta          TSO VII
                               Chemicals
                               Authorizing execution of a
14-2002            1-17-2002   contract with Greer          TSO VII
                               Industries, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 111-1997 and
                               adopting the 2002 Kentucky
                               Building Code, 1996
15-2002            1-17-2002   International Mechanical     TSO XVII
                               Code, 1995 CABO Model Energy
                               Code and 1995 CABO One- and
                               Two-Family Dwelling Code;
                               repealed by Ord. 64-2003
16-2002            1-17-2002   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing execution of any
17-2002            1-17-2002   and all documents related to TSO VII
                               the settlement with Allied
                               Benefit Administrators, Inc.
18-2002            1-31-2002   Authorizing facade agreement TSO XI
                               with Kentucky Housing Corp.
                               Authorizing execution of an
19-2002            2-21-2002   agreement with John D. and   TSO IX
                               Nancy R. Stafford regarding
                               a parking encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
20-2002            2-21-2002   agreement with Don Hall      TSO IX
                               Chevrolet regarding a sign
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of an
21-2002            2-21-2002   agreement with Jeff Franz    TSO VII
                               for the installation of a
                               water line extension
                               Authorizing execution of an
22-2002            2-21-2002   agreement with the Ashland   TSO XI
                               Main Street Program, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 152-2000 and
                               establishing regulations for
23-2002            2-21-2002   comprehensive hiring of      TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealed by
                               Ord. 106-2003
24-2002            2-21-2002   Amending job descriptions;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of an
                               agreement with Michael
25-2002            3-7-2002    Wagner, Wagner Rental,       TSO IX
                               regarding a parking
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of a
26-2002            3-7-2002    contract with Badger Meter,  TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
27-2002            3-7-2002    letter of agreement with     TSO VII
                               Paul Combs & Associates,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
28-2002            3-7-2002    professional agreement with  TSO IV
                               Quest Engineers, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
29-2002            3-7-2002    contract with Whayne Supply  TSO VII
                               Company
                               Extending the cable
30-2002            3-7-2002    television franchise for a   TSO X
                               period of six months
                               Authorizing execution of an
31-2002            3-21-2002   agreement with Scott L. and  TSO IX
                               Kimberly Jenkins regarding a
                               fence encroachment
                               Authorizing execution of a
32-2002            3-21-2002   contract with Mountain       TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of a
33-2002            3-21-2002   lease agreement with Motient TSO XIII
                               Communications, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 1-2002 and
34-2002            3-21-2002   authorizing execution of a   TSO VII
                               contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Amending the city s medical
35-2002            3-21-2002   care plan, plan document and TSO XVII
                               summary plan description and
                               repealing Ord. 101-2001
                               Authorizing assignment of
36-2002            4-4-2002    the existing franchise of    TSO X
                               Verizon South, Inc., to
                               Kentucky Alltell, Inc.
                               Authorizing change order
37-2002            4-4-2002    between the city and Bill    TSO VII
                               Enyart & Sons Contracting,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Kentucky
38-2002            4-4-2002    Housing Corporation under    TSO XI
                               the emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing an agreement
39-2002            4-18-2002   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Kentucky Power Company
                               Authorizing a contract
40-2002            4-18-2002   between the city and Delta   TSO VII
                               Dental Plan of Kentucky,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Federal
41-2002            4-18-2002   Transit Administration of    TSO XI
                               behalf of the city bus
                               system
                               Authorizing a contract
42-2002            5-2-2002    between the city and Abbott  TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
43-2002            5-2-2002    between the city and         TSO VII
                               Franklin Mosko Consultants
                               Authorizing a contract
44-2002            5-2-2002    between the city, the city   TSO VII
                               bus system and Clear Channel
                               Communications
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Carl
45-2002            5-16-2002   Keyes regarding an           TSO IX
                               encroachment for a step-down
                               at 813 Alexander Place
                               Authorizing a change order
46-2002            5-16-2002   between the city and Thomas  TSO VII
                               Environmental Contracting
                               Corporation
47-2002            5-16-2002   Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2001-2002
                               Adopting a sidewalk
48-2002            8-15-2002   replacement and construction TSO XVII
                               policy; repealed by Ord. 95-
                               2002
                               Amending the city medical
49-2002            6-6-2003    care plan, plan document and Not included
                               summary plan description
                               Prohibiting parking on the
50-2002            6-6-2002    east side of 15th Street     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               from the floodwall gate to
                               the railroad crossing
                               Adopting the 2002 S-
51-2002            6-6-2002    7 Supplement to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
52-2002            6-6-2002    Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing a contract
53-2002            6-20-2002   between the city and KYOVA   TSO VII
                               Electrical Services
                               Authorizing a contract
54-2002            6-20-2002   between the city and KYOVA   TSO VII
                               Electrical Services
                               Authorizing a contract
55-2002            6-20-2002   between the city and B & L   TSO VII
                               Contractors
                               Authorizing a contract
56-2002            6-20-2002   between the city and B & L   TSO VII
                               Contractors
                               Authorizing a contract
57-2002            6-20-2002   between the city and Summit  TSO VII
                               Supply Corporation of
                               Colorado
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and
58-2002            6-20-2002   Blackburn Avenue Baptist     TSO IX
                               Church, regarding a parking
                               encroachment and drive apron
                               at 5250 Blackburn Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Gray,
59-2002            6-20-2002   Woods, & Cooper, regarding   TSO IX
                               an encroachment for the
                               installation of a sign at
                               510 16th Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Lisa
60-2002            6-20-2002   Dixon, regarding an          TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               installation of a sign at
                               336 29th Street
                               Changing temporarily the
61-2002            6-20-2002   regularly scheduled meeting  30.06
                               of the Board of City
                               Commissioners
62-2002            6-27-2002   Adopting annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2002-2003
                               Fixing the 2002 regulatory
63-2002            6-27-2002   license fee for the sale of  TSO XVIII
                               alcoholic beverages
64-2002            6-27-2002   Fixing the 2002 bank deposit TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax levy
65-2002            6-27-2002   Amending annual budget for   Not included
                               FY 2001-2002
                               Authorizing an addendum to
                               the administrative services
66-2002            6-27-2002   agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and Anthem Benefit
                               Administrators, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement for
67-2002            7-2-2002    the installation of a water  TSO VII
                               line extension outside the
                               city limits
                               Adopting a sewer backflow
68-2002            7-2-2002    prevention program and       50.100
                               claims process policy
                               Granting for a term of ten
                               years to Kentucky Power
                               Company (d/b/a American
69-2002            7-2-2002    Electric Power) a franchise  TSO XVII
                               to erect and operate an
                               electric light and power
                               system; repealed by Ord. 84-
                               2011
                               Fixing the 2002 ad valorem
                               tax rates on real estate,
70-2002            7-2-2002    personal property, and       TSO XVIII
                               franchises subject to taxes
                               and providing for discounts
                               and penalties
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               the Community Action
71-2002            7-2-2002    Referral Service, the        TSO XI
                               subrecipient of a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Pathways, Inc., the
72-2002            7-2-2002    subrecipient of a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Safe Harbor of Northeast
73-2002            7-2-2002    Kentucky, Inc., the          TSO XI
                               subrecipient of a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               the Salvation Army, the
74-2002            7-2-2002    subrecipient of a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc., the
75-2002            7-2-2002    subrecipient of a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and John F.
76-2002            7-18-2002   Gross at 4324 Ferguson       TSO IX
                               Drive, regarding an
                               encroachment for a driveway
                               with a retaining wall
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the U.S.
77-2002            7-18-2002   Department of Justice for a  TSO XI
                               local law enforcement block
                               grant
                               Authorizing the city
                               corporation counsel to
78-2002            7-18-2002   institute a court action to  TSO XIV
                               close a portion of Workman
                               Road
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Walter
79-2002            8-1-2002    E. Ratliff, regarding a      TSO IX
                               parking encroachment at 2272
                               and 2277 Greenup Avenue
                               Adopting the 2002-2005
80-2002            8-1-2002    consolidated plan and the    TSO IV
                               2002 action plan
                               Authorizing and a contract
81-2002            8-1-2002    between the city and BFI     TSO VII
                               Waste Systems of North
                               America, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
82-2002            8-1-2002    between the city and Cooksey TSO VII
                               Brothers Disposal Company,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and John B.
                               Christie, regarding the
83-2002            8-1-2002    leasing of parking spaces on TSO VII
                               the municipal parking lot at
                               15th Street and Greenup
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing the acceptance
                               of a deed between Gerald and
84-2002            8-1-2002    Linda K. Kuhn and city       TSO XIII
                               regarding purchase by the
                               city of property located at
                               2717 Central Avenue
                               Adopting the PHA one-year
                               plan (2002) to comply with
85-2002            8-1-2002    Section 511 of the Quality   TSO IV
                               Housing and Work
                               Responsibility Act of 1998
                               Authorizing an application
                               for excess loss coverage
                               insurance and the employee
86-2002            8-1-2002    disclosure statement with    TSO VII
                               Monumental Life Insurance
                               Company and an agreement
                               with National Benefit
                               Resources, Inc.
                               Changing the zoning
87-2002            8-15-2002   classification of property   TSO XVI
                               located at 3120 Old 13th
                               Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Kenneth
88-2002            8-15-2002   and Linda Roy, regarding an  TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               installation of a sign at
                               808 Carter Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and the
                               American Legion Building
89-2002            8-15-2002   Corporation, regarding an    TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               placement of a dumpster at
                               405 20th Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Ritchie
90-2002            8-15-2002   and Cindy Collins, regarding TSO IX
                               a parking encroachment at
                               4330 Grandview Drive
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and the
91-2002            8-15-2002   Kentucky Transportation      TSO IV
                               Cabinet for the repair of
                               city-owned traffic signals
                               Authorizing a change order
92-2002            8-15-2002   between the city and Dillon  TSO VII
                               Construction Company, Inc.
                               Amending the authorized
                               positions to reflect changes
93-2002            8-15-2002   in the FY 2002-2003 budget   TSO XVII
                               and adopting replacement job
                               descriptions; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution by the
                               presiding Commissioner of
                               documents previously
                               approved for signature by
94-2002            8-15-2002   the former Mayor retroactive Not included
                               to June 1, 2002, and
                               approving and affirming any
                               actions taken by the
                               presiding Commissioner
                               Adopting a sidewalk
                               replacement and construction
95-2002            8-15-2002   policy and repealing prior   TSO XVII
                               ordinances; repealed by Ord.
                               48-2015
                               Authorizing a pipeline
96-2002            8-15-2002   crossing agreement between   TSO VII
                               the city and CSX
                               Transportation, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
97-2002            9-5-2002    between the city and Neptune TSO VII
                               Equipment Company
                               Authorizing a contract
98-2002            9-5-2002    between the city and         TSO VII
                               Kentucky Underground, Inc.
                               Adopting the Ashland, Boyd   32.01;
99-2002            9-5-2002    County and Catlettsburg      TSO XI
                               emergency operations plan
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               regarding the leasing of
100-2002           9-19-2002   parking spaces north of the  TSO XIII;
                               floodwall and west of the    TSO XVII
                               depot property; repealed by
                               Ord. 47-2003
                               Authorizing a contract
101-2002           9-19-2002   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Kentucky Power Company
                               Authorizing a contract
102-2002           9-19-2002   between the city and Fields  TSO VII
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
103-2002           9-19-2002   between the city and Wilbur  TSO IV
                               Smith Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing the city
104-2002           9-19-2002   corporation counsel to       TSO XIV
                               institute a court action to
                               close Hill Street
                               Authorizing submittal of a
105-2002           9-19-2002   loan application to the      TSO XI
                               Federally Assisted Drinking
                               Water Revolving Fund
                               Changing the zoning
106-2002           9-19-2002   classification of property   TSO XVI
                               located 516 24th Street
                               Amending pollutant discharge
107-2002           9-19-2002   limits; repealed by Ord. 62- TSO XVII
                               2012
                               Authorizing the city
                               corporation counsel to
108-2002           9-19-2002   institute a court action to  TSO XIV
                               close a portion of Moegling
                               Drive
                               Authorizing an agreement
109-2002           10-2-2002   between the city, Ashland    TSO VII
                               Bus System and Kindred
                               Communications, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
110-2002           10-2-2002   between the city, Ashland    TSO VII
                               Bus System and WLGC 105.7 FM
111-2002           10-2-2002   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with Mrs. Don Helton
                               Authorizing a contract
112-2002           10-2-2002   between the city and B & L   TSO VII
                               Utility Contractors
                               Authorizing a contract
113-2002           10-2-2002   between the city and Godwin  TSO VII
                               Pumps of America, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
114-2002           10-2-2002   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Municipal Equipment, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
115-2002           10-2-2002   between the city and Whayne  TSO VII
                               Supply Company
                               Amending fee exceptions for
116-2002           10-2-2002   elderly or handicapped       TSO XVII
                               persons; repealed by Ord.
                               82-2005
117-2002           10-2-2002   Amending water rates;        TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 80-2005
                               Amending the procurement
118-2002           10-2-2002   regulations for the city;    TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 61-2019
                               Authorizing a contract
119-2002           10-2-2002   between the city and B & L   TSO VII
                               Utility Contractors
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Amvets
120-2002           10-17-2002  regarding an encroachment    TSO IX
                               for the installation of an
                               awning
121                10-17-2002  Designating two handicapped  Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking spaces
122                10-17-2002  Prohibiting parking on the   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               north side of Greenup Avenue
123-2002           10-17-2002  Authorizing the installation Not included
                               of stop signs
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city, the
124-2002           10-17-2002  Ashland Police Department    TSO XI
                               and the Department of
                               Justice and the Department
                               of the Treasury
                               Authorizing an agreement
125-2002           10-17-2002  between the city, Department TSO VII
                               of Police and Gregory L.
                               Spears
                               Authorizing a lease/purchase
126-2002           11-7-2002   agreement between city and   TSO VII
                               Tymco International, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
127-2002           11-7-2002   between the city and Ashland TSO VII
                               Fabricating & Welding
128-2002           11-7-2002   Adopting the housing choice  155.04
                               voucher administrative plan
129-2002           10-17-2002  Prohibiting parking on       Not included
                               Spring Park Street
                               Amending authorized
                               positions and adopting
                               replacement job descriptions
                               for the positions of Chief
                               Master Code Official,
130-2002           11-7-2002   Assisted Housing Inspector   TSO XVII
                               and Housing Rehabilitation
                               Specialist in the Department
                               of Planning and Community
                               Development; repealed by
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing execution of the
                               Commonwealth of Kentucky
131-2002           11-21-2002  statewide emergency          TSO XI
                               management mutual aid and
                               assistance agreement
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Chris
132-2002           11-21-2002  Patrick regarding an         TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               placement of a dumpster
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and C.
133-2002           11-21-2002  Douglas Queen regarding an   TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               placement of a sign
                               Authorizing a contract
134-2002           11-21-2002  between the city and Ditch   TSO VII
                               Witch Trenching Co. of
                               Kentucky
                               Authorizing a contract
135-2002           11-21-2002  between the city and N.E.    TSO VII
                               Zabkar Corp.
                               Authorizing a contract
136-2002           11-21-2002  between the city and Service TSO VII
                               Pump & Supply Company
                               Authorizing a contract
137-2002           11-21-2002  between the city and         TSO VII
                               McDaniel Electric
                               Authorizing and approving a
138-2002           11-21-2002  change order between the     TSO VII
                               city and KYOVA Electric,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the city
                               corporation counsel to
139-2002           11-21-2002  institute a court action to  TSO XIV
                               close a portion of Emerson
                               Street
                               Amending the authorized
                               positions and adopting the
                               job description for the
140-2002           11-21-2002  position of Assistant Police TSO XVII
                               Chief in the Department of
                               Police; repealed by Ord. 77-
                               2003
                               Adopting the 2002 S-
141-2002           11-21-2002  8 Supplement to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
                               Creating a Code Enforcement
142-2002           11-21-2002  Board; repealed by Ord. 70-  TSO XVII
                               2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
143-2002           12-5-2002   with Robert Newman for the   TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
144                12-5-2002   Authorizing the installation Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               of portable stop signs
                               Designating the linear park
145-2002           12-5-2002   be named Joseph P. Harris    Not included
                               Park
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of the
146-2002           12-5-2002   City Commissioners for       Not included
                               January 16, 2003 to January
                               14, 2003
                               Authorizing a contract
147-2002           12-19-2002  between the city and B & L   TSO VII
                               Utility Contractors
                               Authorizing a contract
148-2002           12-19-2002  between the city and Morton  TSO VII
                               International, Inc.
149-2002           12-19-2002  Amending water rates;        TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 80-2005
                               Repealing Ord. 166-1988 and
                               adopting a fee schedule for
150-2002           12-19-2002  applications processed by    157.225
                               the Department of Planning
                               and Community Development
                               Authorizing an agreement
151-2002           12-19-2002  between the city and Ashland TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
                               Authorizing an agreement
1-2003             1-2-2003    between the city and Tim and TSO IX
                               Mary Sergent regarding an
                               encroachment for a fence
                               Authorizing a contract
2-2003             1-2-2003    between the city and Service TSO VII
                               Pump & Supply Company
                               Authorizing a contract
3-2003             1-2-2003    between the city and Service TSO VII
                               Pump & Supply Company
4-2003             1-2-2003    Repealing Ord. 106-1998 and  TSO XVII
                               63-2000
5-2003             1-2-2003    Designating a 15-minute      Not included
                               parking space
6-2003             1-2-2003    Extending the cable          TSO X
                               franchise
                               Authorizing acceptance of
7-2003             1-2-2003    federal transportation       TSO XI
                               enhancement funds
                               Changing the zoning
8-2003             1-14-2003   classification of property   TSO XVI
                               located at 2840, 2844 and
                               2848 Hilton Avenue
                               Authorizing a contract
9-2003             2-6-2003    between the city and Wildcat TSO VII
                               Excavating & Construction,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving a
10-2003            2-6-2003    change order between the     TSO VII
                               city and Fields Excavating,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
11-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and Adams   TSO VII
                               Robinson Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
12-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
13-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Chemical Resources, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
14-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and General TSO XVII
                               Chemical Corp.; repealed by
                               Ord. 38-2003
                               Authorizing a contract
15-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and GEO     TSO VII
                               Specialty Chemical
                               Authorizing a contract
16-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and Greer   TSO VII
                               Industries, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
17-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
18-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Kentucky Power Company
                               Authorizing a contract
19-2003            2-20-2003   between the city and KYOVA   TSO VII
                               Electrical Services, Inc.
                               Authorizing the city
20-2003            2-20-2003   corporation counsel to       TSO XIV
                               institute a court action to
                               close a 15-foot alley
                               Amending two-hour parking
21-2003            2-20-2003   limits; repealed by Ord. 52- TSO XVII
                               2016
                               Changing the zoning
22-2003            2-20-2003   classification of property   TSO XVI
                               located at 3120 Old 13th
                               Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               creating a restrictive
23-2003            3-6-2003    covenant between the city    TSO XIII
                               and Anthony L. and Minerva
                               Jane Horne
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Don
24-2003            3-6-2003    Hall GM Supercenter          TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               for the installation of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Paul
25-2003            3-6-2003    Reynolds regarding an        TSO IX
                               encroachment for a retaining
                               wall and fill
                               Authorizing an agreement
26-2003            3-6-2003    between the city and United  TSO IX
                               Properties, LLC regarding a
                               parking encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
27-2003            3-6-2003    between the city, the        TSO VII
                               Department of Fire and
                               Gregory Scott Eastham, MD
                               Repealing Ord. 66-2001 and
                               providing for the orderly
28-2003            3-6-2003    succession of the office of  TSO XVII
                               Mayor in the event of a
                               national or state emergency;
                               repealed by Ord. 38-2006
                               Amending the comprehensive
29-2003            3-6-2003    hiring ordinance for the     Not included
                               police officers for the
                               Department of Police
                               Authorizing a contract
30-2003            3-20-2003   between the city and Lights  TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Richard
31-2003            3-20-2003   T. Brislin, 1st Stop Liquor, TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               for a sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Philip
32-2003            3-20-2003   Hieronimus regarding an      TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               installation of an awning
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and I.N.
33-2003            3-20-2003   Pollock Company, Inc.        TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               for the installation of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing a contract
34-2003            3-20-2003   between the city and Badger  TSO VII
                               Meter, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
35-2003            3-20-2003   between the city and Ashland TSO V
                               City police officers
                               Authorizing an addendum to
36-2003            3-27-2003   the contract between the     TSO IV
                               city and Wilbur Smith
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
37-2003            3-27-2003   between the city and the     TSO VII
                               Cannonsburg Water District
38-2003            3-27-2003   Repealing Ord. 14-2003       TSO XVII
                               Authorizing a contract
39-2003            3-27-2003   between the city and Delta   TSO VII
                               Chemical Corp.
                               Authorizing a contract
40-2003            3-27-2003   between the city and JMK     TSO VII
                               Electric Co.
                               Agreement between the city/
                               Ashland Main Street Program
                               and Scott Sewell d/b/
41-2003            3-27-2003   a Eclipse Communications     TSO VII
                               regarding the Downtown
                               Ashland Market Analysis
                               Report.
42-2003            4-3-2003    Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with Terri Morgan
                               Authorizing an agreement
43-2003            4-3-2003    with Mountain Enterprises    TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Approving change order no.
                               3, dated February 19, 2003,
44-2003            4-3-2003    in the Sept. 17, 2002,       TSO VII
                               contract with Fields
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Adopting a police regarding
45-2003            4-3-2003    the designation of smoking   31.050
                               and non-smoking areas on
                               municipal property
                               Authorizing submission of a
46-2003            4-3-2003    grant application to the     TSO IV
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing an agreement
47-2003            4-17-2003   with John B. Christie and    TSO VII
                               repealing Ord. 100-2002
                               Authorizing an contract with
48-2003            4-17-2003   the Kentucky State Police    TSO VII
                               Governor s Highway Safety
                               Program for $10,000
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the
49-2003            4-17-2003   Federal Transit              TSO IV
                               Administration in behalf of
                               the Ashland Bus System
                               Repealing Ord. 20-1987 which
50-2003            4-17-2003   created a loading zone on    TSO XVII
                               the west side of 16th Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the Ashland Human
51-2003            4-17-2003   Rights Commission and the    TSO VII
                               Commonwealth of Kentucky for
                               $1,000
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Kamp Mining and Construction
52-2003            4-17-2003   for miscellaneous concrete   TSO VII
                               and asphalt repair work for
                               one year
                               Authorizing a contract with
53-2003            4-17-2003   Bill Enyart & Sons           TSO VII
                               Contracting for the concrete
                               improvement program
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               highway safety grant
54-2003            5-1-2003    application to the Kentucky  TSO IV
                               State Police Highway Safety
                               Standards Branch
                               Authorizing an agreement
55-2003            5-15-2003   with Tim Caines regarding    TSO IX
                               installation of a sign at
                               2166 Winchester Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with David P. and Angela
56-2003            5-15-2003   Dawnette Stump regarding     TSO IX
                               installation of a retaining
                               wall at 2622 Jackson Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Kuburatu A. (Bola)
57-2003            5-15-2003   Blunk regarding installation TSO IX
                               of a sign at Blue Ribbon
                               Lanes, 1108 Winchester
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing a memorandum of
58-2003            5-15-2003   agreement with the           TSO IV
                               Department for Local
                               Government for $10,000
59-2003            5-15-2003   Amending the FY 2002-2003    Not included
                               budget
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with UK King s Daughters
60-2003            6-5-2003    regarding installation of a  TSO IX
                               freestanding sign at 2245
                               Winchester Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Cannonsburg Water
                               District regarding
61-2003            6-5-2003    construction of water lines  TSO VII
                               in the area near the
                               intersection of I-64 and
                               U.S. 23
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between Ashland Bus System
62-2003            6-5-2003    and Clear Channel            TSO VII
                               Communications for the
                               adopt-a-bus program
                               Authorizing an agreement
63-2003            6-5-2003    with the Kentucky Department TSO IV
                               of Housing, Buildings and
                               Construction
                               Adopting the 2002 Kentucky
64-2003            6-5-2003    Building Code and repealing  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 15-2002; repealed by
                               Ord. 141-2007
                               Approving amendments to the
                               financing documents related
                               to the floating rate
                               pollution control revenue
                               bonds, series 1983;
65-2003            6-17-2003   authorizing the release of a TSO III
                               guaranty agreement and
                               execution of a remarketing
                               agreement; approving
                               delivery of an alternative
                               letter of credit and
                               providing an effective date
                               Authorizing an interlocal
                               agreement with District
                               Nine, Kentucky
66-2003            6-19-2003   Transportation Cabinet       TSO IV
                               regarding the national
                               pollution discharge
                               elimination system (NPDES)
                               storm water phase II program
                               Approving change order no.
67-2003            6-19-2003   4, dated May 12, 2003, in    TSO VII
                               the Sept. 17, 2002, contract
                               with Fields Excavating, Inc.
                               Amending the medical care
                               plan, plan document and
68-2003            6-19-2003   summary plan description as  Not included
                               adopted by Ord. 65-2001 and
                               amended by Ord. 35-2002 and
                               Ord. 49-2002
                               Adopting the PHA one-year
                               plan (2003) to comply with
69-2003            6-19-2003   Section 511 of the Quality   TSO IV
                               Housing and Work
                               Responsibility Act of 1998
                               Making required changes in
                               the ordinance which created
70-2003            6-19-2003   a Code Enforcement Board,    TSO XVII
                               thereby repealing Ord.142-
                               2002; repealed by Ord. 48-
                               2006
                               Creating an Historic
71-2003            6-19-2003   Preservation Authority;      TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 37-2017
                               Adopting the 2002 S-
72-2003            6-19-2003   9 Supplement to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of the
73-2003            6-19-2003   Board of City Commissioners  30.06
                               set for Thursday, July 3,
                               2003, to Tuesday, July 1,
                               2003
                               Approving change order no.
74-2003            6-20-2003   5, dated May 15, 2003, in    TSO VII
                               the Sept. 17, 2002, contract
                               with Fields Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the 2003 action plan in the
                               amount of $891,000 for a
75-2003            6-20-2003   community development block  TSO XVII
                               grant from the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development; repealed
                               by Ord. 89-2003
                               Amending the 2002-2003
76-2003            6-20-2003   consolidated plan as adopted TSO IV
                               by Ord. 80-2002
                               Updating the policies and
                               procedures, compensation and
77-2003            6-20-2003   classification plans and     TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 25-1991 and
                               all amendments thereto;
                               repealed by Ord. 91-2011
                               Setting the regulatory
                               license fee at 3.5 of gross
78-2003            6-20-2003   proceeds from the sale of    TSO XVIII
                               alcoholic beverages for the
                               fiscal year 2003-2004
                               Setting the bank franchise
79-2003            6-20-2003   deposit tax rate for the     TSO XVIII
                               year 2003 at $0.025 per $100
                               value
80-2003            6-30-2003   Adopting the budget for FY   Not included
                               2003-2004
                               Authorizing a service
81-2003            7-1-2003    agreement with Kentucky      TSO VII
                               Power Company for electrical
                               contracting services
82-2003            7-1-2003    Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               for 2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
83-2003            7-17-2003   between the city and Tim     TSO IX
                               Beam regarding a fence at
                               1811 Pike Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Brian
84-2003            7-17-2003   L. and Betty A. Braun        TSO IX
                               regarding a fence at 2708
                               Adams Avenue
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Donald
85-2003            7-17-2003   L. Forrest for a waterline   TSO VII
                               extension at 1821 W. Tara
                               Drive
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1, dated
86-2003            7-17-2003   June 16, 2003, for the April TSO VII
                               10, 2003 contract with Adams
                               Robinson
                               Changing the zoning
                               classification of property
87-2003            7-17-2003   located at the southwest     TSO XVI
                               corner of Oakview Road and
                               Hickory Ridge Drive and
                               amending Ord. 101-1986
                               Authorizing an agreement
88-2003            8-7-2003    with the Kentucky            TSO IV
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the 2003 action plan in the
                               amount of $1,141,000 for a
89-2003            8-7-2003    community development block  TSO IV
                               grant from the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development and
                               repealing Ord. 75-2003
                               Amending the medical care
                               plan, plan document and
90-2003            8-7-2003    summary plan description, as Not included
                               adopted by Ord. 65-2001 and
                               amended by 35-2002, 49-2002
                               and 68-2003
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Pathways, Inc., the
91-2003            8-7-2003    subrecipient of a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program.
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Safe Harbor of Northeast
92-2003            8-7-2003    Kentucky, Inc., the          TSO XI
                               subrecipient of a grant
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc., the
93-2003            8-7-2003    subrecipient of a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               the Salvation Army, the
94-2003            8-7-2003    subrecipient of a grant      TSO XI
                               under the emergency shelter
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Community Action Referral
95-2003            8-7-2003    Services (CAReS), the        TSO XI
                               subrecipient of a grant
                               under
96-2003            8-21-2003   Authorizing the closing of a TSO XIV
                               portion of 7th St.
                               Authorizing an agreement
97-2003            8-21-2003   between the city and Suresh  TSO IX
                               Patel for a sign at 2280
                               Winchester Ave
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Fifth
98-2003            8-21-2003   Third Bank for the           TSO IX
                               installation of underground
                               tubes at 1422 Winchester Ave
                               Adopting the goals and
99-2003            8-21-2003   objectives of the            TSO IV
                               comprehensive plan update
                               Amending the authorized
100-2003           8-21-2003   positions in the Department  Not included
                               of Public Services as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and John
101-2003           8-21-2003   Thompson for a waterline     TSO VII
                               extension on Ponderosa Ridge
                               Road
                               Authorizing the forgiving of
102-2003           8-21-2003   a loan approved by Ord. 57-  TSO IV
                               1994
                               Authorizing a contract with
103-2003           8-21-2003   Cooksey Brothers Disposal,   TSO VII
                               Inc. for a suitable landfill
                               Authorizing a contract with
104-2003           8-21-2003   Green Valley Environmental   TSO VII
                               Corp. for sludge removal
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with TLG Development Co.,
105-2003           8-21-2003   GCG Ashland, LLC and RLG     TSO VII
                               Ashland, LLC regarding the
                               development of parcels of
                               Melody Mountain
                               Repealing Ord. 23-2002, as
                               amended by 33-2003, and
106-2003           8-21-2003   establishing regulations for TSO XVII
                               the hiring of police
                               officers; repealed by Ord.
                               130-2005
107-2003           8-21-2003   Renaming a park as C.        TSO VIII
                               Wendell Banks Southside Park
108-2003           8-21-2003   Renaming a park as 47th      TSO VIII
                               Street Riverside Park
109-2003           9-4-2003    Establishing the Yard of the Not included
                               Month program
110-2003           9-4-2003    Designating a city block as  TSO XV
                               Freedom Square
                               Amending the authorized
                               positions in the Department
                               of Public Services and
111-2003           9-4-2003    adopting the revised job     Not included
                               description for Assisted
                               Housing Specialist as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Adopting the 2002 S-10
112-2003           9-4-2003    Supplement to the code of    Not included
                               ordinances
                               Designating the city a
                               participant in the Boyd
113-2003           9-4-2003    County solid waste           TSO VII
                               management plan and
                               authorizing the execution of
                               the plan
                               Authorizing an agreement
114-2003           9-18-2003   between the city and Louie   TSO IX
                               Podunavac for a handicap
                               ramp at 224 28th Street
                               Authorizing an agreement
115-2003           9-18-2003   between the city and Allen   TSO VII
                               Holbrook for a water line
                               extension on Paradise Lane
                               Authorizing the closing of
116-2003           9-18-2003   an unimproved alley in       TSO XIV
                               Clyffeside Subdivision
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of the
117-2003           9-18-2003   Board of Commissioners from  Not included
                               Thursday, October 2, 2003 to
                               Thursday, October 9, 2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and John B.
118-2003           10-9-2003   McNurlin for a waterline     TSO VII
                               extension on 4438 Dipper
                               Drive
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 2 to
                               contract with Adams Robinson
119-2003           10-16-2003  dated April 10, 2003         TSO VII
                               regarding the Ashland water
                               treatment plant
                               improvements/phase II
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and George
120-2003           10-16-2003  Aldridge for a waterline     TSO VII
                               extension on Hoods Creek
                               Pike
                               Authorizing an agreement
121-2003           10-16-2003  between the city and Robert  TSO VII
                               Newman for a waterline
                               extension on Dickerson Road
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between Ashland Bus System
122-2003           10-16-2003  and Kindred Communications,  TSO VII
                               Inc. for the adopt-a-bus
                               program
                               Authorizing an agreement
123-2003           10-16-2003  between Ashland Bus System   TSO VII
                               and WLGC 105.7 FM for the
                               adopt-a-bus program
                               Authorizing acceptance of
124-2003           10-16-2003  the deed of AK Steel Sports  TSO I
                               Park
                               Authorizing the execution of
125-2003           10-16-2003  a deed of release of Health  TSO XIII
                               Department property
                               Authorizing the execution of
126-2003           10-16-2003  a corporate authorization    TSO VII
                               resolution and signature
                               forms
                               Amending medical care plan,
127-2003           10-16-2003  plan document and summary    Not included
                               plan description
128-2003           10-16-2003  Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
129-2003           10-16-2003  Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
130-2003           10-16-2003  Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
                               Amending personnel policies
131-2003           10-16-2003  regarding Equipment Operator Not included
                               II-Solid Waste
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of the
                               Board of City Commissioners
132-2003           10-16-2003  from November 6, 2003 to     30.06
                               November 4, 2003 and from
                               January 1, 2004 to January
                               6, 2004
                               Authorizing an agreement
133-2003           11-4-2003   with UK King s Daughters     TSO VII
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
134-2003           11-4-2003   with Tom McLeod, McLeod s    TSO VII
                               Body Shop regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing the execution of
135-2003           11-4-2003   a lease agreement with the   TSO VII
                               City of Worthington for one
                               used police car
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Kevin
136-2003           11-4-2003   Justice for a waterline      TSO VII
                               extension on Maple Leaf
                               Court
                               Authorizing change order no.
                               1 to contract with Wildcat
137-2003           11-4-2003   Excavating & Construction,   TSO VII
                               LLC regarding installation
                               of drainage on Marcia Street
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit a grant application
138-2003           11-4-2003   to the U.S. Department of    TSO XI
                               Justice for a local law
                               enforcement block grant
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract with Kentucky Power
139-2003           11-20-2003  Company d/b/a American       TSO VII
                               Electric Power for energy
                               supplied to the water
                               treatment plant
                               Establishes the procedural
                               regulations and prerequisite
140-2003           11-20-2003  qualifications for hiring    TSO XVII
                               within the Fire Department
                               and repealing Ord. 134-1999;
                               repealed by Ord. 132-2006
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and John
141-2003           11-20-2003  and Stephanie Krantz for a   TSO VII
                               waterline extension on
                               Chippewa Street
142-2003           11-20-2003  Amends Code of Ethics        31.034
                               ordinance
                               Adopting comprehensive
                               regulations for licensing
                               and operation of
                               establishments for the sale
143-2003           11-20-2003  of alcoholic beverages,      TSO XVII;
                               responsibilities of City     TSO XVIII
                               Alcoholic Beverage Control
                               Administrator, and repealing
                               Ord. 78-1998; repealed by
                               Ord. 110-2013
                               Approving and adopting the
                               Ashland, Boyd County and
144-2003           11-20-2003  Catlettsburg Emergency       TSO XVII
                               Operations Plan; repealed by
                               Ord. 74-2014
                               Approving and authorizing an
145-2003           11-20-2003  assistance agreement with    TSO XI
                               Kentucky Infrastructure
                               Authority
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               an employee assistance
146-2003           12-4-2003   program management agreement TSO VII
                               with Ashland Hospital
                               Corporation d/b/a UK King s
                               Daughters
                               Authorizing participation in
147-2003           12-4-2003   CERS unused sick leave       Not included
                               program
                               Creating occupational
                               license fee to those who
                               practice a business, trade
148-2003           12-4-2003   or profession with city      TSO XVII
                               limits and repealing Ord.
                               110-2001; repealed by Ord.
                               51-2021
149-2003           12-4-2003   Adopting the S-11 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing agreement with
150-2003           12-18-2003  city firefighters Local 706, TSO V
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC
                               Authorizing an agreement
151-2003           12-18-2003  with Carol Jean Cieraszynski TSO VII
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
152-2003           12-18-2003  with Dr. Mike Couchot        TSO VII
                               regarding an encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
153-2003           12-18-2003  with the United Steelworkers TSO VII
                               of America regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Mike
154-2003           12-18-2003  Hunt for a waterline         TSO VII
                               extension at 6060 Fellowship
                               Court
155-2003           12-18-2003  Amending table of permitted  157.207
                               and conditional uses
156-2003           12-18-2003  Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
157-2003           12-18-2003  Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
158-2003           12-18-2003  Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
                               Adopting the economic
159-2003           12-18-2003  incentive revolving loan     TSO IV;
                               program and repealing Ords.  TSO XVII
                               14-1994, 50-1994 and 86-1996
                               Authorizing a change to the
1-2004             1-6-2004    contract with Adams Robinson TSO VII
                               regarding the water
                               treatment plant improvements
                               Authorizing a change to the
2-2004             1-6-2004    contract with Adams Robinson TSO VII
                               regarding the water
                               treatment plant improvements
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with David E. Floyd
3-2004             1-6-2004    regarding a sign, parking    TSO IX
                               and landscaping buffer
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Phillips Body Shop
4-2004             1-6-2004    regarding an encroachment    TSO IX
                               for the installation of an
                               awning
                               Authorizing a service
5-2004             1-6-2004    agreement with Cummins       TSO VII
                               Cumberland, Inc. for service
                               and repairs
                               Authorizing a contract with
6-2004             1-15-2004   Light s Enterprises, Inc.    TSO VII
                               for the repair of a road
                               slip
7-2004             1-15-2004   Extending the cable          TSO X
                               franchise for six months
                               Amending the compensation
8-2004             1-15-2004   plan for longevity pay in    Not included
                               personnel policies and
                               procedures
                               Establishing the rules,
9-2004             1-15-2004   regulations and conditions   TSO III
                               for water and sewer system
                               revenue bonds
                               Authorizing the issuance of
10-2004            1-15-2004   $8,220,000 in revenue and    TSO III
                               improvement bonds
11-2004            1-22-2004   Amending the housing choice  155.04
                               voucher administrative plan
                               Amending the personnel
12-2004            1-22-2004   action request form in the   Not included
                               personnel policies and
                               procedures
                               Authorizing a master
13-2004            1-22-2004   commissioner s deed          TSO XIII
                               regarding the Clyffeside
                               Subdivision
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting time of
14-2004            2-5-2004    Board of City Commissioners  Not included
                               for the Feb. 19, 2004
                               meeting
                               Authorizing an agreement
15-2004            2-19-2004   with Sim Fryson Enterprises  TSO IX
                               regarding a sign
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing an agreement
16-2004            2-19-2004   with Edward L. Buchanan      TSO IX
                               regarding fence encroachment
                               Authorizing a contract with
17-2004            2-19-2004   J&M Sales, Inc. for the      TSO VII
                               purchase of pebble lime
                               Authorizing a contract with
18-2004            2-19-2004   Norit Americas, Inc. for the TSO VII
                               purchase of powdered
                               activated carbon
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. for
19-2004            2-19-2004   the purchase of liquid       TSO VII
                               caustic soda, liquid
                               chlorine and sulfur dioxide
                               Authorizing a contract with
20-2004            2-19-2004   Polydyne for the purchase of TSO VII
                               liquid polymer
                               Authorizing a contract with
21-2004            2-19-2004   Delta Chemical Corp. for the TSO VII
                               purchase of aluminum sulfate
                               and poly-aluminum chloride
                               Authorizing a contract with
22-2004            2-19-2004   Calciquest, Inc. for the     TSO VII
                               purchase of potassium
                               permanganate
                               Authorizing a contract with
23-2004            2-19-2004   Chemical Resources, Inc. for TSO VII
                               the purchase of
                               hydrofluosilicic acid
                               Authorizing a contract with
24-2004            2-19-2004   Morton Salt for the purchase TSO VII
                               of 2,000 tons of treated
                               rock salt
                               Authorizing a change to the
25-2004            2-19-2004   contract with Adams Robinson TSO VII
                               regarding the water
                               treatment plant improvements
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Southern Ohio Trenching and
26-2004            2-19-2004   Excavating, Inc. for the     TSO VII
                               purchase of sanitary sewer
                               line
                               Authorizing a contract with
27-2004            2-19-2004   Sutphen Corporation for      TSO VII
                               service to the Fire
                               Department
                               Authorizing corporation
                               counsel to institute an
                               action in the Boyd Circuit
28-2004            2-19-2004   Court to close a 15 foot     TSO XIV
                               alley parallel and south of
                               Bath Avenue between 22nd and
                               23rd Streets
                               Authorizing corporation
                               counsel to institute an
29-2004            2-19-2004   action in the Boyd Circuit   TSO XIV
                               Court to close a portion of
                               the 4100 block of Brown
                               Avenue and an alley
                               Amending the community
30-2004            2-19-2004   development block grant      TSO IV
                               consolidated plan s 2003
                               action plan
31-2004            2-20-2004   Annexing the Melody Mountain TSO II
                               project area
                               Authorizing an agreement
32-2004            3-4-2004    with David Apts., Contours   TSO IX
                               Express regarding a sign
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing a contract with
33-2004            3-4-2004    Neptune Equipment Company    TSO VII
                               for the purchase of water
                               meters
                               Authorizing a contract with
34-2004            3-4-2004    Badger Meter, Inc. for the   TSO VII
                               purchase of water meters
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Service Pump & Supply Co.,
35-2004            3-4-2004    Inc. for the purchase and    TSO VII
                               installation of variable
                               speed drives and a new
                               digital level control system
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Service Pump & Supply Co.,
36-2004            3-18-2004   Inc. for design and supply   TSO VII
                               of one self-contained hydro-
                               pneumatic water booster
                               station
37-2004            3-18-2004   Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
38-2004            3-18-2004   Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
39-2004            3-18-2004   Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
40-2004            3-18-2004   Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Kentucky Farmers Bank
41-2004            4-1-2004    regarding encroachment for   TSO IX
                               installation of sign and
                               landscaping at 835 Carter
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing agreement with
42-2004            4-1-2004    Allen Holbrook and Ronald    TSO VII
                               Robinette for installation
                               of water line
                               Authorizing contract with
                               RJN Group for software
43-2004            4-1-2004    installation and training    TSO VII
                               for infrastructure
                               management system
44-2004            4-1-2004    Adopting S-12 Supplement to  Not included
                               code of ordinances
                               Authorizing submission of
                               grant application to
45-2004            4-1-2004    Kentucky Housing Corporation TSO XI
                               to be distributed to
                               Pathways, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with D
46-2004            4-15-2004   & J Construction for         TSO VII
                               miscellaneous concrete and
                               asphalt work
                               Authorizing contract with
47-2004            4-15-2004   Mountain Enterprises for     TSO VII
                               labor and materials for 2004
                               street paving program
                               Approving change orders 1
                               and 2 to contract with
48-2004            4-15-2004   Southern Ohio Trenching &    TSO VII
                               Excavating regarding 39th
                               Street sanitary sewer
                               project
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Sherrill D. Morgan and
49-2004            4-15-2004   Associates for consulting    TSO VII
                               services regarding city s
                               health insurance coverage
50-2004            4-15-2004   Amending personnel policies  Not included
                               and procedures
                               Authorizing agreement
                               regarding with UK King s
                               Daughters regarding
                               encroachment for
51-2004            5-6-2004    installation of landscaping, TSO IX
                               sidewalks, patio and power
                               plant equipment at south
                               side of 2200 block of Bath
                               Avenue and west side of 23rd
                               Street
                               Authorizing agreement
                               regarding with Sim Fryson
52-2004            5-6-2004    Enterprises regarding        TSO IX
                               encroachment for
                               installation of sign at 2701
                               Winchester Avenue
                               Authorizing contract with
53-2004            5-6-2004    Bill Enyart & Sons for       TSO VII
                               concrete improvement
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Peter D. Kuzniewski for
54-2004            5-6-2004    conversion and transfer of   TSO VII
                               information/record
                               management system data
                               Authorizing submission of
55-2004            5-6-2004    application for community    TSO XI
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing submission of
56-2004            5-6-2004    grant application to Federal TSO XI
                               Transit Administration on
                               behalf of Ashland Bus System
                               Authorizing execution of
57-2004            5-6-2004    agreement for grant for the  TSO XI
                               Fair Housing Event
                               Authorizing execution of
                               Kentucky State Police
58-2004            5-6-2004    Governor s highway safety    TSO XI
                               program campaign grant for
                               Police Department
                               Authorizing execution of
59-2004            5-13-2004   interlocal agreement for co- TSO IV
                               permitting to provide KPDES
                               storm water discharge permit
                               Authorizing agreement with
60-2004            5-20-2004   Gary Donaldson regarding     TSO IX
                               encroachment for handicap
                               ramp at 602 25th Street
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Two Hearts Pregnancy Center
61-2004            5-20-2004   regarding encroachment for   TSO IX
                               installation of sign, fence
                               and landscaping buffer at
                               2200 29th Street
                               Authorizing agreement for
62-2004            5-20-2004   adopt-a-bus advertising      TSO VII
                               program
                               Authorizing execution of
63-2004            5-20-2004   bill of sale for purchase of TSO VII
                               streetlight system
                                                            114.001;
                                                            114.007;
                               Amending procedure for       114.020;
                               regulation of impoundment,   114.021;
                               towing and storage of motor  114.035;
64-2004            5-20-2004   vehicles, immobilized heavy  114.037;
                               equipment and material,      114.050;
                               commonly referred to as The  114.052;
                               Towing Ordinance             114.065;
                                                            114.070;
                                                            114.085;
                                                            114.087
                               Authorizing execution of
                               deed of conveyance for
65-2004            5-27-2004   purchase of property at      TSO XIII
                               corner of 17th Street and
                               Greenup Avenue
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Joe Robinson regarding
66-2004            6-3-2004    encroachment for             TSO IX
                               installation of sign at 806
                               13th Street
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               E.B. Gevedon, MD regarding
67-2004            6-3-2004    encroachment for             TSO IX
                               installation of sign at 330
                               25th Street
                               Authorizing execution of
                               contract with D & J
69-2004            6-3-2004    Construction for labor and   TSO VII
                               materials relating to
                               Oakmount Road curb and
                               sidewalk project
                               Authorizing execution of
70-2004            6-3-2004    contract with Tennis         TSO VII
                               Technology for repair of
                               surfaces of tennis courts
                               Authorizing execution of
                               preservation and
71-2004            6-3-2004    conservation easement for    TSO IX
                               property historically known
                               as the Ashland C & O Freight
                               Depot
                               Creation of limousine
72-2004            6-3-2004    parking area at 1441         TSO XVII
                               Winchester Avenue; repealed
                               by Ord. 51-2006
                               Adopting PHA one-year plan
73-2004            6-3-2004    (2004) for Community         TSO IV
                               Development Agency, Public
                               Housing Authority
74-2004            6-3-2004    Adopting S-13 Supplement to  Not included
                               code of ordinances
                               Amending provisions
75-2004            6-3-2004    regarding street events;     TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 109-2007
                               Changing regularly scheduled
76-2004            6-14-2004   meeting of Board of City     Not included
                               Commissioners from June 17
                               to June 24, 2004
                               Authorizing agreement with
77-2004            6-24-2004   Nancy Greene regarding       TSO IX
                               encroachment for fence at
                               2626 Davis Avenue
78-2004            6-24-2004   Adopting replacement job     Not included
                               descriptions for Water Plant
                               Amending rules and
                               regulations for use of
79-2004            6-24-2004   Central Park and other       TSO XVII
                               parks; repealed by Ord. 36-
                               2011
80-2004            6-24-2004   Amending 2003-2004 budget    Not included
81-2004            6-24-2004   Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
                               Authorizing the submission
82-2004            6-24-2004   of a Homeland Security grant TSO XI
                               application
                               Permitting rebate or
83-2004            6-28-2004   retention of occupational    TSO XVIII
                               license fee by AK Steel
                               Corporation
                               Repealing 148-2003; creating
84-2004            6-28-2004   an occupational license fee; TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 148-2003
85-2004            6-28-2004   Fixing tax levy for 2004     TSO XVIII
                               Fixing regulatory license
86-2004            6-28-2004   fee from sale of alcoholic   TSO XVIII
                               beverages for 2004-2005
87-2004            6-28-2004   Adopting 2004-2005 budget    TSO XVIII
88-2004            6-28-2004   Amending personnel policies  Not included
89-2004            6-28-2004   Extending cable television   TSO X
                               franchise
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               TLG Development, RLG Ashland
                               and GCG Ashland regarding
90-2004            6-28-2004   encroachment for             TSO IX
                               installation of sign at U.S.
                               23 entrance to Melody
                               Mountain Shopping Center
91-2004            7-1-2004    Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
92-2004            7-1-2004    Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
93-2004            7-1-2004    Amending zoning map          TSO XVI
                               Authorizing change order 3
                               to contract with Southern
94-2004            7-1-2004    Ohio Trenching & Excavating  TSO VII
                               for 39th street sanitary
                               sewer project
                               Designating loading zone at
95-2004            7-1-2004    230 16th Street; repealed by TSO XVII
                               Ord. 55-2009
96-2004            7-1-2004    Designating 15-minute        Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking spaces
97-2004            7-1-2004    Prohibiting parking in 1300  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               block of Nichols Place
                               Prohibiting parking in 100
98-2004            7-1-2004    block of 18th Street after   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               6:00 p.m. on Fridays and
                               Saturdays
99-2004            7-1-2004    Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               for 2004
100-2004           7-1-2004    Agreement for placement of   TSO IV
                               dumpsters
101-2004           7-1-2004    Installation of sign at 2924 TSO IV
                               Winchester Avenue
102-2004           7-1-2004    Building addition at 2009    TSO IV
                               Carter Avenue
                               Proposal for administrative
103-2004           7-1-2004    fees for city health         TSO VII
                               insurance
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
104-2004           7-15-2004   execute a contract with the  TSO VII
                               Salvation Army
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
105-2004           7-15-2004   execute a contract with Safe TSO VII
                               Harbor of Northeast
                               Kentucky, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
106-2004           7-15-2004   execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Pathways, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
107-2004           7-15-2004   execute an agreement with    TSO VII
                               Community Action Referral
                               Services
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
108-2004           7-15-2004   execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
109-2004           7-15-2004   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Cintas
                               Corporation
110-2004           7-15-2004   Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 4
                               Repealing the Land Use Plan
                               and implementing the
111-2004           7-27-2004   comprehensive plan of the    TSO XVII
                               city; repealed by Ord. 103-
                               2013
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
112-2204           7-15-2004   enter into an agreement      TSO VII
                               between the city and Tony
                               Workman
113-2004           7-15-2004   Authorizing and approving a  TSO VII
                               change order no. 6
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
115-2004           8-5-2004    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and River Cities
                               Disposal
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
116-2004           8-5-2004    execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and the Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
117-2004           8-5-2004    the city and John B.         TSO XIII
                               Christie regarding leasing
                               of parking spaces
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute and agreement
118-2004           8-5-2004    between the city and         TSO XIII
                               Community Holding of
                               Kentucky, LLC
                               Authorizing and directing
119-2004           8-5-2004    the Mayor to execute an      TSO XIII
                               agreement for parking spaces
120-2004           8-5-2004    Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 7
                               Authorizing the corporation
121-2004           8-5-2004    counsel to institute an      TSO XIV
                               action in the Boyd Circuit
                               Court
122-2004           8-5-2004    Repealing Ordinance 96-1998  TSO XVII
                               Creating a beverage service
                               training program for all
123-2004           8-5-2004    alcoholic beverage           TSO XVII
                               licensees; repealed by Ord.
                               110-2013
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a lease agreement
124-2004           8-19-2004   between the city and the     TSO VII
                               City of Worthington Police
                               Department
125-2004           8-19-2004   Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 1
126-2004           8-19-2004   Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 8
127-2004           8-19-2004   Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 9
128-2004           8-19-2004   Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 10
129-2004           8-19-2004   Amending disabled parking    72.086;
                               spaces                       72.999
130-2004           8-19-2004   Adopting S-14 Supplement to  Not included
                               code of ordinances
131-2004           9-2-2004    Authorizing the Mayor to     TSO VII
                               execute a grant agreement
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
132-2004           9-2-2004    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Accepting the proposal of
133-2004           9-2-2004    ETA Engineering Consultants, TSO VII
                               PSC
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
134-2004           9-2-2004    execute and engineering      TSO VII
                               services agreement
135-2004           9-2-2004    Amending the parking         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedule
136-2004           10-7-2004   Authorizing the leasing of   TSO XIII
                               several parking spaces
                               Authorizing a contract for
137-2004           10-7-2004   the storm water drainage     TSO VII
                               project
                               Authorizing a contract for
138-2004           10-7-2004   all labor and materials to   TSO VII
                               clean and paint the 55th St.
                               water tank
                               Authorizing a contract for
139-2004           10-7-2004   the removal and disposition  TSO VII
                               of sludge from the
                               wastewater treatment plant
140-2004           10-21-2004  Executing an easement for an TSO IX
                               abandoned water line
141-2004           10-21-2004  Amending personnel policies  Not included
                               Executing an interlocal
                               agreement with the Regional
                               Public Safety Communication
142-2004           11-4-2004   Center and the cities of     TSO XVII
                               Ashland, Catlettsburg and
                               the County of Boyd; repealed
                               by Ord. 21-2007
                               Authorizing a contract for
143-2004           11-4-2004   the purchase of one two-ton  TSO VII
                               dump truck
144-2004           11-4-2004   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the adopt-a-bus program
145-2004           11-4-2004   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the adopt-a-bus program
                               An agreement with J.C.
146-2004           11-4-2004   Williams, Tri-state Pawn and TSO IV
                               Jewelry regarding a parking
                               encroachment
147-2004           11-4-2004   Amending one-way streets;    TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 37, 2025
                               Renaming the park at
148-2004           11-4-2004   Blackburn and 29th as Norman TSO XV
                               Dutch Berry Park
149-2004           11-4-2004   Adopting S-15 Supplement to  Not included
                               code of ordinances
                               Grant award binder for a
150-2004           11-4-2004   local law enforcement block  TSO IV
                               grant for the Police
                               Department
151-2004           11-18-2004  Extending the cable          TSO X
                               television franchise
152-2004           11-18-2004  Amending the parking         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedule
153-2004           11-18-2004  Amending the parking         Not included
                               schedule
154                11-18-2004  Amending text of Ord. 21-    Ch. 75, Sch. X
                               1995
                               Removing 15th and 18th
                               Streets from being
155-2004           11-18-2004  designated as one-way        TSO XVII
                               (repealing part of Ord. 137-
                               2000); repealed by Ord. 37,
                               2025
156-2004           11-18-2004  Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing a grant
157-2004           11-18-2004  application for the Police   TSO XI
                               Department
                               Agreement for an
158-2004           12-2-2004   encroachment for the         TSO IV
                               installation of a
                               freestanding sign
                               Authorizing a contract
159-2004           12-2-2004   regarding the Ashland water  TSO VII
                               treatment plant
                               improvements/phase II
160-2004           12-2-2004   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the water booster station
161-2004           12-2-2004   Accepting a proposal for     TSO VII
                               engineering services
                               Amending regulations for
162                12-2-2004   residential parking by       Ch. 75, Sch. X
                               permit
163-2004           12-2-2004   Amending personnel policies  Not included
                               Executing an interlocal
164-2004           12-16-2004  agreement with the city of   TSO IV
                               Bowling Green relating to
                               the Clean Water Act
                               Agreement for an
165-2004           12-16-2004  encroachment for the         TSO IV
                               installation of a
                               landscaping buffer
                               Agreement for an
166-2004           12-16-2004  encroachment for the         TSO IV
                               construction of an overhead
                               walkway over 23rd Street
                               Agreement for an
167-2004           12-16-2004  encroachment for the         TSO IV
                               installation of underground
                               electric
                               Agreement for the
168-2004           12-16-2004  installation of a water line TSO IV
                               extension outside the city
                               limits
169-2004           12-16-2004  Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the Oakview Road project
                               Authorizing an agreement
170-2004           12-16-2004  regarding the county sewer   TSO XI
                               district
                               Authorizing a contract with
171-2004           12-16-2004  Boyd County Sanitation       TSO VII
                               District No. 2
                               Contract for streetscape
172-2004           12-21-2004  project in 1300 block of     TSO IV
                               Winchester Avenue.
                               Change order no. 12 for 4-
173-2004           12-21-2004  10-2003 contract regarding   TSO IV
                               Ashland water treatment
                               plant improvements/phase II
                               Authorizing execution of
174-2004           12-21-2004  deed for sale of surplus     TSO XIII
                               property on 39th Street
                               Advertisement and sale of
175-2004           12-21-2004  franchise for telephone      TSO XVII
                               communication system;
                               repealed by Ord. 55-2005
                               Advertisement and sale of
176-2004           12-21-2004  franchise or gas             TSO XVII
                               distribution; repealed by
                               Ord. 54-2005
                               Accepting proposal for
178-2004           12-21-2004  police station feasibility   TSO IV
                               study
179-2004           12-21-2004  Agreement for provision of   TSO IV
                               waterfront master plan
                                                            153.01;
                                                            153.12;
                                                            153.25;
                               Repealing and replacing      153.27;
180-2004           12-21-2004  Flood Damage Prevention      153.40;
                                                            153.46;
                                                            153.60;
                                                            153.67;
                                                            153.99
                               Authorizing contract for
01-2005            1-11-2005   section 125 administrative   TSO VII
                               services agreement
                               Repealing Ord. 84-1999 which
02-2005            1-11-2005   closed a portion of an alley TSO XVII
                               off of Hunt Street
03-2005            1-11-2005   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Contract for purchase and
04-2005            2-3-2005    installation of two waste-   TSO IV
                               water pumps for 37th Street
                               pump station
                               Adoption of National
05-2005            2-3-2005    Incident Management System   32.02
                               (NIMS)
                               Authorizing submission of
07-2005            2-3-2005    2005 Homeland Security grant TSO XI
                               application
                               Agreement for encroachment
08-2005            2-10-2005   for installation of sign at  TSO IX
                               1442 Winchester Avenue
                               Agreement for encroachment
09-2005            2-10-2005   for installation of          TSO IX
                               landscaping and parking at
                               480 23rd Street
                               Contract for purchase of
10-2005            2-10-2005   chemicals for Department of  TSO VII
                               Public Services
                               Contract for purchase of
11-2005            2-10-2005   chemicals for Department of  TSO VII
                               Public Services
                               Contract for purchase of
12-2005            2-10-2005   chemicals for Department of  TSO VII
                               Public Services
                               Contract for purchase of
13-2005            2-10-2005   chemicals for Department of  TSO VII
                               Public Services
                               Contract for purchase of
14-2005            2-10-2005   chemicals for Department of  TSO VII
                               Public Services
                               Contract for purchase of
15-2005            2-10-2005   chemicals for Department of  TSO VII
                               Public Services
16-2005            2-10-2005   Contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               2,500 tons of rock salt
                               Contract for installation of
17-2005            2-10-2005   storm drain from 22nd Street TSO IV
                               to 25th Street
18-2005            2-10-2005   Accepting proposal for slip  TSO IV
                               repair on Debord Hill
                               Change order no. 13 for 4-
19-2005            2-10-2005   10-2003 contract regarding   TSO IV
                               Ashland water treatment
                               plant improvements/phase II
                               Authorizing memorandum of
20-2005            2-10-2005   understanding for the        TSO XI
                               Kentucky Preparedness
                               Program
21-2005            2-10-2005   Adopting the S-16 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
22-2005            2-17-2005   Intent to annex Providence   TSO II
                               Hill
                               Project development
23-2005            2-17-2005   agreement with Pendleton Art TSO IV
                               Center regarding 1537 and
                               1539 Winchester Avenue
25-2005            3-10-2005   Contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               cold water meters
                               Agreement for installation
26-2005            3-10-2005   of water line extension at   TSO IV
                               2767 Ohio Street
                               Accepting proposal for
27-2005            3-10-2005   wastewater treatment plant   TSO IV
                               needs survey
                               Accepting proposal for
28-2005            3-10-2005   Ashland City Building fire   TSO IV
                               escape
                               Agreement for encroachment
29-2005            3-17-2005   for installation of a sign   TSO IX
                               at 2132 Winchester Avenue
                               Agreement for encroachment
30-2005            3-17-2005   for installation of a fence  TSO IX
                               at 3321 Winchester Avenue
                               Agreement for encroachment
31-2005            3-17-2005   for installation of a sign   TSO IX
                               at 1041 Greenup Avenue
                               Agreement for encroachment
32-2005            3-17-2005   for installation of a        TSO IX
                               landscaping buffer at 1220
                               Greenup Avenue
                               Agreement for maintenance
33-2005            3-17-2005   and operation of city s      TSO IV
                               street lighting system
                               Contract for removal and
34-2005            3-17-2005   replacement of sidewalks in  TSO IV
                               1300 block of Winchester
                               Avenue
                               Contract for renovation of
35-2005            3-17-2005   26th Street sewer pump       TSO IV
                               station
                               Change order no. 14 for 4-
36-2005            3-17-2005   10-2003 contract regarding   TSO IV
                               Ashland water treatment
                               plant improvements/phase II
                               Authorizing submission of
37-2005            3-17-2005   grant application for        TSO XI
                               demolition/reconstruction of
                               dilapidated housing
                               Amending community
38-2005            3-17-2005   development block grant      TSO XI
                               consolidated plan s 2004
                               action plan
                               Adopting Ch. 159, Erosion    159.01;
39-2005            3-17-2005   Prevention and Sediment      159.08;
                               Control                      159.99
                               Authorizing institution of
41-2005            3-17-2005   action to close Patton       TSO XIV
                               Street
                               Authorizing submission of
42-2005            3-17-2005   grant application for        TSO XI
                               Ashland Police Department
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Sherrill D. Morgan and
43-2005            4-7-2005    Associates for services in   TSO VII
                               the selection of insurance
                               coverage
                               Authorizing an agreement for
44-2005            4-7-2005    installation of a water line TSO IV
                               extension at 901 Glendale
                               and 1001 W. Forestdale
                               Authorizing an interlocal
                               agreement with the county
45-2005            4-7-2005    regarding the 2005 Byrne     TSO XI
                               Justice Assistance Grant
                               Program
                               Authorizing a grant
46-2005            4-7-2005    application to the Kentucky  TSO XI
                               Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing the submittal of
                               a grant application to the
47-2005            4-7-2005    U.S. Department of Housing   TSO XVII
                               and Urban Development;
                               repealed by Ord. 63-2005
                               Authorizing an agreement for
48-2005            4-11-2005   installation of a water line TSO IV
                               extension in the Hennecke
                               Subdivision on Southland Dr.
                               Authorizing a contract with
49-2005            4-11-2005   Boyd County Ford for the     TSO VII
                               purchase of a new medium
                               duty truck
                               Authorizing a contract with
50-2005            4-11-2005   Bill Enyart and Sons         TSO VII
                               Contracting, Inc. for the
                               concrete improvement program
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               D and J Construction of
                               Ashland Inc. for all labor
51-2005            4-11-2005   and materials for the        TSO VII
                               miscellaneous concrete and
                               asphalt repair work for one
                               year
                               Authorizing a contract with
52-2005            4-11-2005   Mountain Enterprises, Inc.   TSO VII
                               for the 2005 street paving
                               program
                               Designating a handicap
53-2005            4-11-2005   parking space in the 1400    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               block of Central Avenue.
                               Advertisement and sale of a
54-2005            4-11-2005   franchise for a gas          TSO X;
                               distribution system; repeals TSO XVII
                               Ord. 176-2004
                               Advertisement and sale of a
55-2005            4-11-2005   franchise for a telephone    TSO X;
                               and communication system;    TSO XVII
                               repeals Ord. 175-2004
                               Authorizing an agreement
56-2005            4-11-2005   with the Human Rights        TSO VII
                               Commission for a fair
                               housing event
                               Amending the compensation
57-2005            4-25-2005   and classification plan and  Not included
                               personnel policies
                               Authorizing an agreement
58-2005            4-25-2005   with Rally Partners, Inc.    TSO VII
                               regarding sponsorship of the
                               Great Race, 2005
59-2005            5-5-2005    Annexing the Melody Mountain TSO II
                               project
                               Authorizing an agreement for
60-2005            5-5-2005    the Melody Mountain project  TSO IV;
                               phase II; repealed by Ord.   TSO XVII
                               121-2005
                               Authorizing a letter of
61-2005            5-5-2005    commitment for the           TSO IV
                               Renaissance on Main/Main
                               Street program
                               Adopting the FIVCO region
62-2005            5-5-2005    multi-jurisdictional hazard  Not included
                               mitigation plan
                               Repealing Ord. 47-2005
63-2005            5-5-2005    regarding an grant           TSO XVII
                               application
                               Authorizing a grant
64-2005            5-5-2005    application to the Federal   TSO XI
                               Transit Administration on
                               behalf of the bus system
                               Authorizing an agreement
65-2005            5-5-2005    with the bus system and      TSO VII
                               Clear Channel Communications
                               for the adopt-a-bus program
                               Annexing a portion of the
66-2005            5-5-2005    county described as          TSO II
                               Providence Hill
                               Authorizing an agreement
67-2005            5-19-2005   with Strand Associates, Inc. TSO VII
                               for engineering services
                               Authorizing a task order
68-2005            5-19-2005   with Strand Associates, Inc. TSO VII
                               regarding the preparation of
                               a long-term control plan
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Fred and Linda Dalton
69-2005            5-19-2005   regarding an encroachment    TSO IX
                               for the installation of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with John D. and Nancy R.
70-2005            5-19-2005   Stafford regarding an        TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               installation of a fence
                               Authorizing an agreement
71-2005            5-19-2005   with Nina Yancey regarding   TSO IX
                               an encroachment for the
                               installation of a sign
                               Authorizing a contract with
72-2005            5-19-2005   Service Pump and Supply for  TSO VII
                               the 26th Street sewer pump
                               station
73-2005            5-19-2005   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Adopting the PHA five-year
                               plan (2005-2010) and one-
74-2005            5-19-2005   year plan to comply with the Not included
                               Quality Housing and Work
                               Responsibility Act
                               Adjusting the compensation
75-2005            5-24-2005   for the Mayor and City       Not included
                               Commissioners for FY 2005-
                               2006
76-2005            6-1-2005    Granting Columbia Gas        TSO X
                               Company a franchise
                               Adopting a five-year plan
                               for the Department of        TSO IV;
77-2005            6-1-2005    Planning and Community       TSO XVII
                               Development; repealed by
                               Ord. 150-2005
78-2005            6-1-2005    Adopting the FY 2005-2006    Not included
                               budget
                               Fixing the 2005 tax ley on
79-2005            6-1-2005    the bank deposits franchise  TSO XVIII
                               tax
                               Establishing water rates,
                               tap fees, installation
80-2005            6-1-2005    charges, service charges,    TSO XVII
                               penalties and interest;
                               repealing Ord. 79-1995;
                               repealed by Ord. 32-2018
                               Establishing sewer rates,
                               tap fees, installation
                               charges, service charges,
81-2005            6-1-2005    industrial pretreatment      TSO XVII
                               charges and penalties;
                               repealing Ord. 80-1995;
                               repealed by Ord. 52-2009
                               Providing for the gathering, 93.01;
                               disposing and destruction of 93.02;
82-2005            6-1-2005    garbage, rubbish and related 93.15; 
                               waste materials; repeals     93.18;
                               Ord. 81-1995                 TSO XVII
                               Authorizing an agreement
83-2005            6-2-2005    with C.J. Maggies Corp.      TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               for outdoor dining
                               Amending the storm water
84-2005            6-2-2005    drainage project from Ord.   TSO IV
                               17-2005
                               Authorizing a work order
85-2005            6-2-2005    with Quest Engineers Inc.    TSO VII
                               for engineering services
                               Authorizing a deed of
                               conveyance with United
                               Ashland Ministries, Inc. and TSO XIII;
86-2005            6-2-2005    accepting a tract of land    TSO XVII
                               for the 10th Street widening
                               project and repealing Ord.
                               19-2000
                               Authorizing a deed of
                               conveyance with United
                               Ashland Ministries, Inc. and TSO XIII;
87-2005            6-2-2005    accepting a tract of land    TSO XVII
                               for the 10th Street widening
                               project and repealing Ord.
                               18-2000
88-2005            6-2-2005    Adopting the S-17 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
89-2005            6-2-2005    Granting Kentucky Alltel     TSO X
                               Inc. a franchise
90-2005            6-2-2005    Fixing the regulatory        TSO XVIII
                               license fee for FY 2005-2006
                               Authorizing an agreement
91-2005            6-3-2005    with Linda Simpson regarding TSO IX
                               an encroachment for the
                               installation of a fence
92-2005            6-3-2005    Granting Frontiervision a    TSO X
                               franchise
                               Removing a stop sign at 13th
93-2005            6-3-2005    Street and placing one on    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               14th Street
94-2005            6-3-2005    Amending FY 2004-2005 budget Not included
                               Adopting the calculation
                               method of a discretionary
95-2005            6-3-2005    employee bonus in            Not included
                               recognition of service five
                               years or over
                               Amending the storm water
96-2005            6-3-2005    drainage project from Ord.   TSO IV
                               17-2005
                               Authorizing a change order
                               with Adams Robinson for a
97-2005            6-20-2005   contract regarding the water TSO VII
                               treatment plant
                               improvements/phase II
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Fred and Linda Dalton
98-2005            6-20-2005   regarding an encroachment    TSO IX
                               for the installation of a
                               sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Boston Beanery
99-2005            6-20-2005   Restaurants, Inc. regarding  TSO IX
                               an encroachment for the
                               installation of a sign
                               Authorizing an agreement
100-2005           6-27-2005   with the Fraternal Order of  TSO VII
                               Police, Ashland Lodge #3
101-2005           6-27-2005   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for 2005
                               Approving a renewal with
102-2005           6-27-2005   Medical Benefits             Not included
                               Administrators, Inc. for the
                               city s health insurance
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
103-2005           7-7-2005    execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and the Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
104-2005           7-7-2005    Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
105-2005           7-7-2005    Changing the meetings of the Not included
                               Board of City Commissioners
                               Amending the personnel
106-2005           7-7-2005    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
107-2005           7-7-2005    execute an agreement with    TSO VII
                               David and Dreama Klaiber
                               Amending the personnel
108-2005           7-21-2005   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
                               the city and Municipal       TSO VII;
109-2005           8-18-2005   Equipment, Inc. for the      TSO XVII
                               lease/purchase of wheeled
                               refuse containers; repealed
                               by Ord. 139-2005
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
                               the city and Holy Family
                               Church regarding an
110-2005           8-4-2005    encroachment for the         TSO IX
                               installation of a fence at
                               the corner of 9th Street and
                               Carter Avenue on the city s
                               right-of-way
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
                               the city and John
111-2005           8-4-2005    Stockbridge regarding an     TSO IX
                               encroachment for
                               installation of a fence at
                               2944 Winchester Avenue on
                               the city s right-of-way
                               Authorizing and approving
112-2005           8-4-2005    change orders nos. 1, 2, and TSO IV
                               3 date July 28, 2005
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
113-2005           8-4-2005    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and River Cities
                               Disposal, LLC
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
114-2005           8-4-2005    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Service Pump
                               and Supply Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
115-2005           8-4-2005    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Taylor
                               Chevrolet, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
116-2005           8-4-2005    execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Boston Beanery
                               Restaurant, Inc.
117                8-4-2005    Amending the portable stop   Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               sign table
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
118-2005           8-18-2005   execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Kelly A.
                               McMeans
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
119-2005           8-18-2005   the city and Mark and Ercel  TSO VII
                               Ratliff of Ratliff Family
                               Funeral Home, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
120-2005           8-18-2005   execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Providence
                               Hill, LLC
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
121-2005           8-18-2005   TLG Development Co., Inc.,   TSO XVII
                               GCG Ashland LLC, RLG Ashland
                               LLC, and the city; repealed
                               by Ord. 71-2007
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
122-2005           8-18-2005   execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Michael D.
                               Light
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
123-2005           8-18-2005   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Don Hall GM
                               Supercenter
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
124-2005           9-1-2005    execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Community Action Referral
                               Services
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
125-2005           9-1-2005    execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Pathways, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
126-2005           9-1-2005    execute a contract with Safe TSO VII
                               Harbor of Northeast
                               Kentucky, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
127-2005           9-1-2005    execute a contract with the  TSO VII
                               Salvation Army
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
128-2005           9-1-2005    execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit the annual Section 8
                               management assessment
129-2005           9-1-2005    program (SEMAP)              Not included
                               certification to the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development
                               Repealing Ord. 106-2003 and
                               establishing regulations for
130-2005           9-1-2005    comprehensive hiring of      TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealed by
                               Ord. 157-2006
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute and submit a
131-2005           9-1-2005    renaissance on main grant    TSO IV
                               application for streetscape
                               improvements
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change orders nos. 4 and 5
                               dated August 29, 2005
132-2005           9-1-2005    between the city and KYOVA   TSO IV
                               Electrical, Inc. for a
                               contract dated January 13,
                               2005
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 dated
133-2005           9-1-2005    August 27, 2005, between the TSO IV
                               city and Mi-Ce-Don, Inc. for
                               a contract dated March 18,
                               2005
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
134-2005           9-1-2005    execute a professional       TSO VII
                               service agreement between
                               the city and Woolpert, Inc.
                               Authorizing the corporation
135-2005           9-1-2005    counsel to close an unnamed  TSO XIV
                               alley behind 2517 West
                               Euclid Avenue
                               Changing the zoning
                               classification of property
136-2005           9-1-2005    located at 615 Martin Luther TSO XVI
                               King, Jr. Boulevard from B-
                               2 General Business to B-
                               3 Downtown Business
                               Prohibiting smoking inside
                               the fenced area of the
137-2005           9-1-2005    toddler s playground located TSO XVII
                               within Central Park;
                               repealed by Ord. 36-2011
                               Amending the personnel
138-2005           9-1-2005    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
139-2005           9-1-2005    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Municipal
                               Equipment, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
140-2005           9-15-2005   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Carmichael
                               Equipment
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
141-2005           9-15-2005   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and D & J
                               Construction
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
142-2005           9-15-2005   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Green Valley
                               Landfill
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
143-2005           9-15-2005   enter into an agreement      TSO XI
                               between the city and
                               Cannonsburg Water District
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement with
144-2005           9-15-2005   E.B. Lowman for the          TSO VII
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
145-2005           9-15-2005   Amending the Kentucky        Not included
                               medical care plan
                               Authorizing the issuance of
146-2005           10-4-2005   general obligation public    TSO III
                               project bonds, series 2005
                               in the amount of $3,290,000
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a release and
147-2005           9-15-2005   settlement agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Pace Local
                               Union #5-0523 and AK Steel
                               Corporation
                               Consolidated annual
148-2005           10-4-2005   performance report and       Not included
                               evaluation (CAPER) for
                               program year 2004
149-2005           10-4-2005   Adopting the S-18 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Adopting the five-year
                               strategic plan for the
150-2005           10-4-2005   Department of Planning and   TSO IV
                               Community Development and
                               repealing Ord. 77-2005
151-2005           10-20-2005  Authorizing a Municipal Road TSO III
                               A Bond Fund agreement
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
152-2005           10-20-2005  the city and Ashland Police  TSO XI
                               Department and L.E.A.D.S.
                               Online, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
153-2005           10-20-2005  the city and Bill Enyart and TSO VII
                               Sons Contracting Inc. for
                               labor, material and
                               equipment
                               Authorizing and approving a
154-2005           10-20-2005  change order no. 2 dated     TSO IV
                               October 18, 2005, between
                               the city and MI-DE-CON, Inc.
                               Prohibiting licensing and
155-2005           10-20-2005  operation of public pool     112.01
                               rooms
                               Designating a 15-minute
156-2005           10-20-2005  parking space; repealed by   TSO XVII
                               Ord. 50-2006
157-2005           10-20-2005  Prohibiting parking on       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain portions of streets
158-2005           10-20-2005  Regulating pawnbrokers       116.03
                               Amending the authorized
159-2005           10-20-2005  positions of the policies    Not included
                               and procedures,
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
160-2005           11-3-2005   the city and the City of     TSO XVII
                               Flatwoods and repealing Ord.
                               14-1996; repealed by Ord.
                               124, 2023
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a
                               contract between the city
                               and municipal equipment for
161-2005           11-3-2005   the purchase of one new      TSO VII
                               eight-cubic yard rear load
                               packer for the Department of
                               Public Services, Division of
                               Sanitation
                               Authorizing and approving
162-2005           11-3-2005   change order no. 16 dated    TSO IV
                               August 22, 2005 between the
                               city and Adams Robinson
                               Accepting ownership,
                               maintenance and operations
                               responsibilities for certain
                               portions of River Hill Drive
163-2005           11-3-2005   and West Central Avenue      TSO IV
                               pursuant to the agreement
                               between the city and TLG
                               Development Co., Inc., GCG
                               Ashland LLC and RLG Ashland
                               LLC
164-2005           11-3-2005   Authorizing the installation TSO IV
                               of a sewer main extension
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
165-2005           11-3-2005   execute a grant application  TSO XI
                               in the amount of $238,000
166-2005           11-3-2005   Prohibiting parking on       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain portions of streets
167-2005           11-3-2005   Providing for the            Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               installation of stop signs
                               Creating a new chapter for   52.01;
168-2005           11-3-2005   the storm water system       52.20;
                                                            52.99
                               Amending the Section 125
169-2005           11-3-2005   flexible spending account    TSO VII
                               plan document as adopted by
                               Ord. 01-2005
                               Authorizing Mayor to execute
170-2005           11-17-2005  a contract between the city  TSO VII
                               and Mountain Enterprises,
                               Inc.
                               Designating certain streets
171-2005           10-20-2005  as one-way; repealed by Ord. TSO XVII
                               37, 2025
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
172-2005           11-17-2005  the Ashland Bus System and   TSO VII
                               Kindred Communications, Inc.
                               for the adopt-a-bus program
                               for advertising purposes
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
173-2005           11-17-2005  the Ashland Bus System and   TSO VII
                               WLGC Radio for the adopt-a-
                               bus program for advertising
                               purposes
                               Granting a franchise to
                               Natural Energy Utility
                               Corporation a franchise
174-2005           11-17-2005  authorizing natural energy   TSO X
                               utility cooperation to own,
                               maintain, construct and
                               operate a gas distribution
                               system
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute task order #2
175-2005           11-17-2005  between the city and Strand  TSO VII
                               Associates, Inc. regarding
                               the sewer system mapping
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
176-2005           11-17-2005  execute a project completion Not included
                               report
177-2005           11-17-2005  Adopting the S-19 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending the authorized
178-2005           11-17-2005  positions of the policies    Not included
                               and procedures,
                               classification plan
01-2006            1-5-2006    Prohibiting parking on a     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain street
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
02-2006            1-19-2006   the city and Jake Gee        TSO IX
                               regarding a parking
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
03-2006            1-19-2006   change order no. 3 dated     TSO IV
                               December 19, 2005, between
                               the city and Mi-De-Con
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
04-2006            2-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO IV
                               the city and KZF Designs
                               Amending the PHA five-year
05-2006            2-2-2006    plan as adopted by Ord. 74-  Not included
                               2005 to add the home
                               ownership component
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
06-2006            2-2-2006    the city and Ashland City    TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706,
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters
                               Amending Kentucky medical
                               care plan, amendment 3, and
                               Fire Department union plan,
07-2006            2-2-2006    amendment 2, as adopted by   Not included
                               Ord. 103-2004 and previously
                               amended by Ord. 102-2005 and
                               Ord. 145-2005
                               Amending the 2005 program
08-2006            2-16-2006   year action plan as adopted  TSO IV
                               by Ord. 150-2005
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
09-2006            2-16-2006   execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and CMW Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
10-2006            2-16-2006   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Southern Ohio
                               Trenching
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
11-2006            2-16-2006   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Womack
                               Development Co.
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 dated
12-2006            2-16-2006   January 12, 2006, between    TSO VII
                               the city and D & J
                               Construction
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
13-2006            2-16-2006   execute task order #1        TSO IV
                               between the city and KZF
                               Design, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 156-2005,
14-2006            2-16-2006   which authorized a parking   Not included
                               space on a certain street
15-2006            2-16-2006   Adopting the S-20 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an annual letter of
16-2006            2-16-2006   commitment for the           TSO IV
                               Renaissance on Main/Main
                               Street program
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
17-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Brenntag Mid-
                               South, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
18-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Calciquest,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
19-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Carbon
                               Activated Corporation
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
20-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Chemical
                               Resources, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
21-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and C. I. Thornburg
                               Co.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
22-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Delta Chemical
                               Corp.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
23-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and AK Steel
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
24-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Polydyne, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
25-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Univar USA,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
26-2006            3-2-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Mike Enyart &
                               Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute and submit an
27-2006            3-2-2006    application to the Kentucky  TSO VII
                               Transportation Cabinet for
                               the safe routes to school
                               program
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
28-2006            3-16-2006   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Badger Meter,
                               Inc.
                               Adopting the citizen
29-2006            3-16-2006   participation plan for       TSO IV
                               community development
                               programs
                               Changing the name of Russell
30-2006            3-16-2006   Road to Providence Hill      TSO XV
                               Drive
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
31-2006            3-16-2006   procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute and submit an
32-2006            3-16-2006   application for the          TSO IV
                               streetscape renovation phase
                               3 project to the Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a memorandum of
33-2006            3-16-2006   agreement between the        TSO VII
                               Kentucky Commission on Human
                               Rights and the Ashland Human
                               Rights Commission
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit a grant application
34-2006            4-6-2006    to the Kentucky Housing      TSO XI
                               Corporation to be
                               distributed to certain
                               charitable organizations
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
                               the city and UK King s
35-2006            4-6-2006    Daughters regarding an       TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               installation of an
                               underground conduit
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
36-2006            3-16-2006   execute a contract between   TSO IV
                               the city and KYOVA
                               Electrical Services
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 dated
37-2006            4-6-2006    March 7, 2006, between the   TSO VII
                               city and Bill Enyart & Sons
                               Contracting, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 28-2003 and
                               providing for the orderly
38-2006            4-6-2006    succession of the office of  TSO XVII
                               Mayor in the event of a
                               national or state emergency;
                               repealed by Ord. 16-2011
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a deed between the
39-2006            4-6-2006    city and Tony and Barbara    TSO XIII
                               Collins regarding the
                               purchase of property
                               Amending Ord. 157-2005,
40-2006            4-20-2006   which prohibited parking on  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               parts of certain streets
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
41-2006            4-20-2006   procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
                               the city and UK King s
42-2006            4-20-2006   Daughters regarding an       TSO IX
                               encroachment for the
                               construction of UK King s
                               Daughters Imaging Center
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
43-2006            4-20-2006   the city and Peoples Bank    TSO IX
                               National Association
                               regarding an encroachment
                               for placement of a sign
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
44-2006            4-20-2006   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and D & J
                               Construction
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
45-2006            4-20-2006   execute a contract between   TSO IV
                               the city and Mi-De-Con, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
                               the city and Mountain
46-2006            4-20-2006   Enterprises, Inc. the city   TSO VII
                               and Peoples Bank National
                               Association regarding an
                               encroachment for placement
                               of a sign
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
47-2006            4-20-2006   execute task order #1        TSO VII
                               between the city and CMW,
                               Inc.
                               Making required changes in
                               the ordinance which created
48-2006            4-20-2006   a Code Enforcement Board,    TSO XVII
                               thereby repealing Ord. 70-
                               2003; repealed by Ord. 122-
                               2006
                               Establishing motor vehicle   71.09;
49-2006            4-20-2006   speed limits and repealing   Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
                               Ord. 128-1988
50-2006            4-20-2006   Designating parking spaces   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               at the Transportation Center
                               Repealing Ord. 72-2004,
51-2006            4-20-2006   which created a limousine    TSO XVII
                               parking area at 1441
                               Winchester Avenue
                               Repealing 129-1994 and
                               adopting rules, regulations
52-2006            4-20-2006   and fees governing the use   TSO XVII
                               of the activity room in
                               Central Park; repealed by
                               Ord. 36-2011
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
53-2006            4-20-2006   procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
54-2006            5-4-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Mike Enyart &
                               Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
55-2006            5-4-2006    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Orr Safety
                               Corp.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
56-2006            5-4-2006    the city and Don Hicks for   TSO VII
                               the installation of a water
                               line extension
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
57-2006            5-4-2006    submit the 2006 action plan  TSO XI
                               for a community development
                               block grant
                               Adopting amendment #1 to the
                               agreement between the city
58-2006            5-4-2006    and Ashland City police      TSO V
                               officers, Fraternal Order of
                               Police, Ashland Lodge #3
                               Authorizing the
59-2006            5-4-2006    establishment of the health  Not included
                               matters wellness program for
                               employees of the city
                               Authorizing the
                               establishment of a Section
60-2006            5-4-2006    105 Plan for all eligible    Not included
                               employees and elected
                               officials
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
61-2006            5-18-2006   execute a contract between   TSO IV
                               the city and Southern Ohio
                               Trenching
                               Closing an unimproved alley
62-2006            5-18-2006   off Algonquin Avenue behind  TSO XIV
                               2401 13th Street
                               Accepting the donation of
63-2006            5-18-2006   property located at 1560     TSO I
                               Prospect Place
                               Accepting the donation of
64-2006            5-18-2006   property located at 3219     TSO I
                               Central Avenue
                               Adopting the PHA one-year
                               plan (2006) for submission
65-2006            5-18-2006   to the U.S. Department of    TSO IV
                               Housing and Urban
                               Development
66-2006            6-1-2006    Authorizing a lease          TSO VII
                               agreement
67-2006            6-1-2006    Authoring an agreement with  TSO VII
                               AVI Foodsystems
                               Executing a memorandum of
                               understanding with Scope
68-2006            6-1-2006    Towers to provide fire       TSO IV
                               safety training to the
                               residents
69-2006            6-1-2006    Amending a contract          TSO VII
                               authorized by Ord. 11-2006
70-2006            6-1-2006    Authorizing a sanitary sewer TSO IX
                               easement
                               Authorizing a FY 2007 grant
71-2006            6-1-2006    application on behalf of     TSO IV
                               Ashland Bus System
                               Supporting the
72-2006            6-1-2006    revitalization of the        TSO IV
                               Pollard Area
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of the
73-2006            6-1-2006    City Commissioners from      Not included
                               Thursday June 15, 2006 to
                               Thursday June 22, 2006
                               Authorizing an application
74-2006            6-1-2006    to the National Tactical     TSO IV
                               Officers Association
                               Authorizing an agreement
75-2006            6-22-2006   with Ashland Bus System and  TSO VII
                               Clear Channel Communications
                               Executing a memorandum of
                               understanding with the state
76-2006            6-22-2006   police allowing the Fire     TSO IV
                               Department to operate on
                               statewide mutual aid radio
                               frequencies
77-2006            6-22-2006   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing an agreement
78-2006            6-29-2006   with the Transportation      TSO VII
                               Cabinet
                               Authorizing a lease
79-2006            6-29-2006   agreement with the City of   TSO VII
                               Worthington Police
                               Department
80-2006            6-29-2006   Amending a contract          TSO VII
                               authorized by Ord. 170-2005
                               Repealing and readopting the
81-2006            6-29-2006   rules and regulations for    TSO XVII
                               the Police Department;
                               repealed by Ord. 20-2008
                               Adopting the residential
82-2006            6-29-2006   anti-displacement and        155.02
                               relocation assistance plan
83-2006            6-29-2006   Amending the FY 2005-2006    Not included
                               budget
84-2006            6-29-2006   Adopting the FY 2006-2007    Not included
                               budget
85-2006            6-29-2006   Fixing the regulatory        TSO XVIII
                               license fee for FY 2005-2006
                               Fixing the regulatory
86-2006            6-29-2006   license fee for alcoholic    TSO XVIII
                               beverages for FY 2006-2007
                               Approving a renewal with
87-2006            6-29-2006   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc.
88-2006            6-30-2006   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for 2006
                               Authorizing a memorandum of
89-2006            7-20-2006   agreement with the Kentucky  TSO VII
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Department of Highways
                               Executing an agreement with
                               the Transportation Cabinet
90-2006            7-20-2006   regarding federal highway    TSO IV
                               administration funds for the
                               riverfront project
                               Authorizing a change in the
91-2006            7-20-2006   contract with Mi-De-Con,     TSO IV
                               Inc. regarding the
                               streetscape project
                               Authorizing an agreement
92-2006            7-20-2006   with Joe Hessami for a water TSO VII
                               line extension
                               Authorizing an agreement
93-2006            7-20-2006   with Clay Robbins for a      TSO VII
                               water line extension
                               Amending placement of
94-2006            7-20-2006   containers for garbage;      TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 68-2015
95-2006            7-20-2006   Adopting the S-21 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
96-2006            7-20-2006   Amending personnel policies  Not included
                               Authorizing a contract with
97-2006            7-20-2006   Marsh Construction for       TSO VII
                               construction of a bus
                               storage building
                               Authorizing an encroachment
98-2006            8-3-2006    for installation of an       TSO IV
                               underground fiber optic
                               cable
99-2006            8-3-2006    Authorizing an encroachment  TSO IV
                               for permanent banners
                               Authorizing an application
100-2006           8-3-2006    for the Fivco Development    TSO IV
                               District for the Police
                               Department
                               Authorizing an application
101-2006           8-3-2006    for Duke Energy/Dow Chemical TSO IV
                               Public Safety money for the
                               Police Department
                               Amending penalties for
102-2006           8-3-2006    overtime parking; repealed   TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 52-2016
                               Authorizing the task order
103-2006           8-3-2006    #3 regarding the long term   TSO VII
                               control plan
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of City
104-2006           8-3-2006    Commissioners from Thursday  Not included
                               August 17, 2006 to Thursday
                               August 24, 2006
                               Establishing smoking         99.01;
105                8-24-2006   regulations                  99.12;
                                                            99.99
                               Changing the zoning
106-2006           8-24-2006   classification of property   TSO XVI
                               located at 5308 Winchester
                               Avenue from R-5 to B-1
107-2006           8-24-2006   Authorizing a contract for a TSO VII
                               suitable landfill location
                               Amending the Kentucky
108-2006           8-24-2006   medical care plan, amendment Not included
                               2 as adopted by Ord. 103-
                               2004
                               Adjusting the compensation
109-2006           8-24-2006   for FY 2006-2007 for the     Not included
                               Mayor and City Commissioners
                               Prohibiting smoking in the   99.06;
110-2006           8-24-2006   vicinity of UK King s        TSO IV
                               Daughters
                               Authorizing a contract with
111-2006           8-24-2006   community action referral    TSO XI
                               services
112-2006           8-24-2006   Authorizing a contract with  TSO XI
                               the Salvation Army
                               Authorizing a contract with
113-2006           8-24-2006   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO XI
                               Kentucky, Inc.
114-2006           8-24-2006   Authorizing a contract with  TSO XI
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing a grant
115-2006           8-24-2006   agreement for an updated     TSO VII
                               airport master plan study
                               Authorizing an agreement for
116-2006           9-7-2006    the installation of a water  TSO VII
                               line extension
                               Authorizing a mutual aid
117-2006           9-7-2006    agreement with the fire      TSO XI
                               department
                               Authorizing a lease
118-2006           9-7-2006    agreement with FIVCO         TSO VII
                               regarding space for an adult
                               day care center
                               Amendment to the agreement
119-2006           9-7-2006    with city police officers,   TSO VII
                               Fraternal Order of Police,
                               Ashland Lodge #3
                               Authorizing a trust
                               participation agreement for
120-2006           9-7-2006    the Kentucky League of       TSO VII
                               Cities insurance general
                               insurance trust
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
121-2006           9-7-2006    for the purchase of all      TSO VII
                               labor and materials for tree
                               trimming
                               Making required changes in
                               the ordinance which created
122-2006           9-7-2006    a Code Enforcement Board,    35.26
                               thereby repealing Ord. 48-
                               2006
                               Amending the table of
123-2006           9-7-2006    permitted and conditional    157.207
                               uses
                               Changing the zoning
124-2006           9-7-2006    classification of all        TSO XVI
                               properties abutting Hilton
                               Avenue from R-5 to R-6
                               Changing the regularly
                               scheduled meeting of City
125-2006           9-7-2006    Commissioners from Thursday  Not included
                               October 5, 2006 to Thursday
                               October 12, 2006
                               Authorizing a contract with
126-2006           9-21-2006   Green Valley Landfill for    TSO VII
                               the removal and disposition
                               of sludge
                               Authorizing a grant
                               agreement with the Kentucky
127-2006           9-21-2006   Housing Corporation to       TSO VII
                               assist organizations in
                               providing safe, decent,
                               affordable housing
                               Authorizing an easement
                               regarding property
128-2006           9-21-2006   historically known as the    TSO IX
                               Ashland C and O Freight
                               Depot
                               Consolidated annual
129-2006           9-21-2006   performance report and       Not included
                               evaluation (CAPER) for
                               program year 2005
                               Accepting ownership,
130-2006           9-21-2006   maintenance and operations   TSO IV
                               responsibilities for
                               Clements Drive
                               Amending regulations and
                               qualifications for the Fire
131-2006           9-21-2006   Department; repealing Ord.   TSO XVII
                               140-2003; repealed by Ord.
                               84-2012
                               Establishing hiring
132-2006           9-21-2006   regulations for the Fire     TSO XVII
                               Department; repealed by Ord.
                               46-2007
133-2006           9-21-2006   Adopting the S-22 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
134-2006           9-21-2006   Establishing locations of    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               stop signs
135-2006           9-21-2006   Parking prohibited           Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Authorizing a consulting
136-2006           10-12-2006  agreement for the renovation TSO IV
                               of facades in the Downtown
                               Historic District
                               Authorizing a change order
137-2006           10-12-2006  no. 2 regarding the          TSO IV
                               streetscape project
                               Authorizing a grant
138-2006           10-12-2006  submission for the home      TSO IV
                               investment partnership
                               program
                               Authorizing a grant
139-2006           10-12-2006  submission for 2006-07       TSO IV
                               Safety and liability grant
                               Authorizing an agreement for
140-2006           10-19-2006  the leasing of parking       TSO VII
                               spaces in the city-owned lot
                               at 17th and Greenup
141-2006           10-19-2006  Authorizing an agreement for TSO VII
                               the adopt-a-bus program
142-2006           10-19-2006  Authorizing an agreement for TSO VII
                               the adopt-a-bus program
                               Authorizing a contract for
143-2006           10-19-2006  the purchase of a new truck  TSO VII
                               for the Division of Animal
                               Control
                               Authorizing a contract for
144-2006           10-19-2006  the purchase of a dump truck TSO VII
                               with snow removal equipment
145-2006           10-19-2006  Accepting and executing a    TSO VII
                               homeland security grant
                               Changing the zoning
146-2006           10-19-2006  classification of certain    Not included
                               property
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
147-2006           10-19-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
148-2006           10-19-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing a municipal road
149-2006           11-9-2006   aid discretionary bond fund  Not included
                               agreement
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
150-2006           11-9-2006   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               regarding leasing of parking
151-2006           11-9-2006   spaces in the city-owned lot TSO VII
                               on 15th St. and Greenup
                               Avenue
152-2006           11-16-2006  Adopting the amended five-   TSO IV
                               year consolidated plan
153-2006           11-16-2006  Adopting the 2006 amended    TSO IV
                               action plan
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
154-2006           11-16-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
155-2006           11-16-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
156-2006           11-16-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Repealing Ord. 130-2005 and
                               establishing regulations for
157-2006           11-16-2006  comprehensive hiring of      TSO XVII
                               police officers: repealed by
                               Ord. 99-2007
                               Authorizing a contract for
158-2006           12-21-2006  the lease-purchase of a      TSO VII
                               packer truck for the
                               Division of Sanitation
159-2006           12-21-2006  Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the purchase of salt
                               Authorizing change order no.
160-2006           12-21-2006  6 regarding the Winchester   TSO IV
                               Avenue streetscape project
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
161-2006           12-21-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
162-2006           12-21-2006  Adopting the S-23 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing a contract for
163-2006           12-21-2006  developer services in        TSO VII
                               connection with the Pollard
                               Mills District
164-2006           12-21-2006  Authorizing the placement of TSO IV
                               fiber optic cables
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
165-2006           12-21-2006  compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing an agreement for
01-2007            1-4-2007    the use of a trademark on    TSO VII
                               signs to honor Brandon Webb
                               Authorizing a deed regarding
02-2007            1-4-2007    property to be used as a     TSO IV
                               reading garden
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
03-2007            1-18-2007   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing task #3
04-2007            2-1-2007    regarding the riverfront     TSO VII
                               development project
                               Authorizing task #4
05-2007            2-1-2007    regarding the storm sewer    TSO VII
                               outfall mapping and illicit
                               discharge detection
                               Authorizing a contract for
06-2007            2-15-2007   the purchase of certain      TSO VII
                               chemicals for water
                               treatment
                               Authorizing a contract for
07-2007            2-15-2007   the purchase of certain      TSO VII
                               chemicals for water
                               treatment
                               Authorizing a contract for
08-2007            2-15-2007   the purchase of certain      TSO VII
                               chemicals for water
                               treatment
                               Authorizing a contract for
09-2007            2-15-2007   the purchase of certain      TSO VII
                               chemicals for water
                               treatment
10-2007            2-15-2007   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the purchase of salt
11-2007            2-15-2007   Authorizing and annual       TSO IV
                               letter of commitment
                               Changing the zoning
12-2007            2-15-2007   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
                               Amending sewer rates, fees,
                               charges, industrial
13-2007            3-1-2007    pretreatment charges and     TSO XVII
                               penalties; repealed by Ord.
                               32-2018
14-2007            3-1-2007    Amending stop sign           Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               provisions
15-2007            3-1-2007    Amending the FY 2006-2007    Not included
                               annual budget
                               Authorizing a contract
16-2007            3-15-2007   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Ashland, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
17-2007            3-15-2007   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
18-2007            3-15-2007   between the city and Don     TSO VII
                               Hall GM Supercenter
                               Authorizing a contract
19-2007            3-15-2007   between the city and Home    TSO VII
                               Maintenance and Remodeling
                               Authorizing a contract
20-2007            3-15-2007   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Reynolds Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               an interlocal cooperation
21-2007            3-15-2007   agreement; repealing Ord.    TSO XVII
                               142-2004; repealed by Ord.
                               61-2007
22-2007            3-15-2007   Authorizing the execution of TSO XIII
                               a deed of conveyance
23-2007            3-15-2007   Authorizing the execution of TSO XIII
                               a deed of conveyance
24-2007            3-15-2007   Authorizing the execution of TSO XIII
                               a plat
                               Amending water rates, tap
                               fees, installation charges,
25-2007            3-15-2007   service charges, penalties   TSO XVII
                               and interest; repealed by
                               Ord. 32-2018
26-2007            3-15-2007   Amending the FY 2006-2007    Not included
                               annual budget
                               Authorizing grant
27-2007            3-15-2007   application to Kentucky      TSO IV
                               Housing Corporation
                               Authorizing the first
28-2007            3-27-2007   amendment to a land lease    TSO XIII
                               agreement
                               Authorizing a contract
29-2007            3-27-2007   between the city and Service TSO VII
                               Pump and Supply Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
30-2007            3-27-2007   between the city and General TSO VII
                               Chemical Performance
                               Products, LLC
                               Authorizing a contract
31-2007            3-27-2007   between the city and Delta   TSO VII
                               Chemical Corporation
                               Authorizing submittal of
32-2007            3-27-2007   renaissance on main grant    TSO IV
                               application
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
33-2007            3-27-2007   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
34-2007            3-27-2007   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003
                               Authorizing a contract
35-2007            4-19-2007   between city and Badger      TSO VII
                               Meter, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
36-2007            4-19-2007   between the city and Mike    TSO IV
                               Enyart and Sons, Inc.
37-2007            4-19-2007   Authorizing submittal of     TSO IV
                               2007 action plan
                               Authorizing a contract
38-2007            4-19-2007   between the city and         TSO IV
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
39-2007            4-19-2007   Designating property as a    TSO VIII
                               city park
40-2007            4-19-2007   Adopting the S-24 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
41-2007            4-19-2007   Authorizing a grant          TSO XI
                               assistance agreement
42-2007            5-3-2007    Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               GWS Unlimited, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
43-2007            5-3-2007    between the city and Mike    TSO VII
                               Enyart and Sons, Inc.
                               Amending the personnel
44-2007            5-3-2007    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
45-2007            5-3-2007    Amending Fire Department     TSO XVII
                               regulations for promotions
                               Amending hiring provisions
46-2007            5-3-2007    for the Fire Department;     TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 132-2006;
                               repealed by Ord. 23-2009
47-2007            5-3-2007    Amending Rules of            10.02
                               Construction definitions
48-2007            5-17-2007   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               between the city and Buxton
                               Authorizing an agreement
49-2007            5-17-2007   between the city and Cartee  TSO VII
                               Land Development, Inc.
50-2007            5-17-2007   Authorizing an interlocal    TSO VII
                               cooperation agreement
51-2007            5-22-2007   Authorizing an AED donation  TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Authorizing and agreement
52-2007            5-22-2007   between the city and Lamar   TSO VII
                               Advertising
                               Authorizing a contract
53-2007            5-22-2007   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Municipal Equipment, Inc.
                               Authorizing a deed between
54-2007            5-22-2007   the city and Blacktop        TSO XIII
                               Industries and equipment
                               Company, Inc.
55-2007            5-22-2007   Authorizing submittal of FY  TSO IV
                               2008 grant application
                               Authorizing change order no.
56-2007            5-29-2007   1 regarding the roof         TSO IV
                               replacements in the Pollard
                               Mills area
                               Authorizing execution of
57-2007            5-29-2007   2007 Kentucky recycling      TSO IV
                               grant program
58-2007            6-5-2007    Authorizing a memorandum of  TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Changing the regularly
59-2007            6-5-2007    scheduled meeting of the     Not included
                               Board of Commissioners
                               Authorizing agreement
60-2007            6-26-2007   between city, bus system and TSO VII
                               Clear Channel Communications
                               Authorizing Mayor to execute
61-2007            6-26-2007   an interlocal cooperation    TSO XI;
                               agreement; repealing Ord.    TSO XVII
                               21-2007
                               Authorizing change orders
62-2007            6-26-2007   between the city and home    TSO IV
                               maintenance and remodeling
                               Authorizing change orders
63-2007            6-26-2007   between the city and Marsh   TSO IV
                               Construction
                               Changing the zoning
64-2007            6-26-2007   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
65-2007            6-26-2007   Adopting the S-25 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending the Uniform Fire    151.02;
66-2007            6-26-2007   Code; repealing Ord. 151-    151.99;
                               1997                         TSO XVII
                               Amending the National Fire   151.02;
67-2007            6-26-2007   Code; repealing Ord. 101-    TSO XVII
                               1999
                               Approving a renewal with
68-2007            6-26-2007   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrator s Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
69-2007            6-26-2007   between city and Lighting    TSO IV
                               Properties LLC
                               Authorizing an agreement
70-2007            6-29-2007   between city and AK Steel    TSO IV
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing agreement
71-2007            6-29-2007   between CGC Ashland LLC, RLG TSO VII
                               Ashland LLC and the city
72-2007            6-29-2007   Authorizing trust            TSO VII
                               participation agreement
73-2007            6-29-2007   Amending the FY 2006-2007    Not included
                               annual budget
                               Amending the administrative
74-2007            6-29-2007   plan; repealed by Ord. 118-  TSO XVII
                               2007
75-2007            6-29-2007   Amending the provisions of   35.26
                               the Code Enforcement Board
                               Amending provisions of
                               licenses and premises
76-2007            6-29-2007   regulations for alcoholic    TSO XVII
                               beverages; repealed by Ord.
                               118-2007
77-2007            6-29-2007   Amending the personnel       Not included
                               policies and procedures
78-2007            6-29-2007   Amending the personnel       Not included
                               policies and procedures
79-2007            6-29-2007   Adopting the FY 2007-2008    Not included
                               annual budget
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
80-2007            6-29-2007   rates for 2007 on real       TSO XVIII
                               estate, personal property
                               and franchises
81-2007            6-29-2007   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for 2007
82-2007            6-29-2007   Fixing the regulatory        TSO XVIII
                               license fee for FY 2007-2008
                               Adjusting the compensation
83-2007            6-29-2007   for FY 2007-2008 for the     Not included
                               Mayor and City Commissioners
                               Establishing criteria to     157.280;
84-2007            6-29-2007   classify property as         157.282
                               abandoned
                               Authorizing consent judgment
85-2007            7-23-2007   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Kentucky EPA
86-2007            7-23-2007   Authorizing contract between TSO VII
                               the city and Cintas
                               Authorizing agreement
87-2007            7-23-2007   between the city and Linda   TSO VII
                               Dalton
88-2007            7-23-2007   Approving change order nos.  TSO IV
                               3 and 4
                               Authorizing agreement
89-2007            7-23-2007   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
                               Amending parking space
90-2007            7-23-2007   provisions; repealed by Ord. TSO XVII
                               27, 2023
91-2007            7-23-2007   Adopting five-year plan and  TSO IV
                               one-year plan
                               Authorizing agreement
92-2007            8-16-2007   between the city and Brooks  TSO XVII
                               Wells Enterprises; repealed
                               by Ord. 84-2010
                               Approving a grant agreement
                               and a grant assignment and
93-2007            8-16-2007   assumption agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Big Sandy Water
                               District
                               Authorizing a lease
94-2007            8-16-2007   agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and Branch Banking and Trust
                               Company
                               Authorizing a contract
95-2007            8-16-2007   between the city and Kanawha TSO VII
                               Janitor d/b/a Professional
                               Maintenance of Ohio Valley
                               Authorizing an agreement
96-2007            8-16-2007   between the city and Gary    TSO VII
                               Wright
97-2007            8-16-2007   Adopting the 2006 amended    TSO IV
                               action plan
98-2007            8-16-2007   Adopting the 2007 amended    TSO IV
                               action plan
                               Repealing Ord. 157-2006 and
                               establishing regulations for
99-2007            8-16-2007   comprehensive hiring of      TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealed by
                               Ord. 159-2007
100-2007           8-16-2007   Amending the personnel       Not included
                               policies and procedures
                               Authorizing a contract
101-2007           9-6-2007    between the city and River   TSO VII
                               Cities Disposal, LLC
                               Authorizing a contract
102-2007           9-6-2007    between the city and Neptune TSO VII
                               Equipment Company
                               Authorizing grant assistance
103-2007           9-6-2007    agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and Kentucky infrastructure
                               authority
                               Authorizing grant assistance
104-2007           9-6-2007    agreement between city and   TSO VII
                               Kentucky infrastructure
                               authority
105-2007           9-6-2007    Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with KCTCS
106-2007           9-6-2007    Amending the personnel       Not included
                               policies and procedures
107-2007           9-6-2007    Amending connection charges; TSO XVII
                               repealed
                               Amending regulations for
108-2007           9-6-2007    banners and signs across     97.086
                               streets
                               Establishing procedures for
                               the use of city streets,
109-2007           9-6-2007    rights-of-way or facilities  TSO XVII
                               for street events; repealing
                               Ord. 75-2004; repealed by
                               Ord. 56-2009
                               Repealing Ord. 116-1990,
110-2007           9-6-2007    limiting parking underneath  TSO XVII
                               the Simeon Willis Bridge to
                               two-hour intervals
                               Authorizing a contract
                               between the city and Area
111-2007           9-20-2007   Charity Properties, Inc. d/  TSO VII
                               b/a Neighbors Helping
                               Neighbors, and CTB, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
112-2007           9-20-2007   between the city and Boyd    TSO VII
                               County Ford, Inc.
113-2007           9-20-2007   Amending stop sign           Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               provisions
                               Amending the authorized
114-2007           9-20-2007   positions and adopting the   Not included
                               revised job description for
                               Assisted Housing Inspector
115-2007           9-20-2007   Adopting the S-26 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing a client work
116-2007           9-25-2007   order agreement between the  TSO VII
                               city and HDR Engineering,
                               Inc.
117-2007           9-25-2007   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with John Brown
                               Amending the administrative
118-2007           10-4-2007   plan and repealing Ord. 74-  155.04
                               2007
119-2007           10-4-2007   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Ashland Hospital Corporation
120-2007           10-4-2007   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               GWS Unlimited, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
121-2007           10-4-2007   Southern Ohio Trenching &    TSO VII
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
122-2007           10-4-2007   Service Pump & Supply Co.,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
123-2007           10-4-2007   Authorizing task order #5    TSO VII
                               with Strand Associates, Inc.
124-2007           10-4-2007   Amending Kentucky medical    TSO VII
                               care plan, amendment 5
                               Interlocal agreement to
125-2007           10-4-2007   provide KPDES storm water    TSO XI;
                               discharge permit services;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 52-2010
                               Authorizing a grant
                               application to the Kentucky
126-2007           10-8-2007   League of Cities for the     Not included
                               2007-2008 safety and
                               liability grant
                               Authorizing agreement with
127-2007           10-18-2007  Kentucky Transportation      TSO VII
                               Cabinet
                               Authorizing a contract with
128-2007           10-18-2007  Service Pump & Supply Co.,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
129-2007           10-18-2007  Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Marathon Oil
130-2007           10-18-2007  Authorizing submittal of     Not included
                               CAPER for program year 2006
                               Adopting emergency shelter
131-2007           10-18-2007  grant plan for program year  Not included
                               2007
                               Authorizing grant
132-2007           10-18-2007  application in the amount of Not included
                               $200,000
                               Authorizing agreement with
133-2007           11-1-2007   Ashland Employee Credit      TSO VII
                               Union
134-2007           11-1-2007   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Brandstetter Carroll, Inc.
                               Executing a certificate of
                               limited partnership and the
135-2007           11-1-2007   limited partnership          Not included
                               agreement of Pollard Mills
                               Homes, Ltd.
136-2007           11-1-2007   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Sutphen Corporation
                               Authorizing change order no.
137-2007           11-1-2007   1 with Mike Enyart & Sons,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
138-2007           11-1-2007   with the Federal Home Loan   TSO VII
                               Bank of Cincinnati and Town
                               Square Bank, Inc.
139-2007           11-1-2007   Adopting the water line      Not included
                               extension agreement
                               Adopting amendment to the
140-2007           11-1-2007   2007 action plan for the     TSO IV
                               Department of Planning and
                               Community Development
                               Adopting the 2007 Kentucky
141-2007           11-1-2007   Building Code and repealing  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 64-2003; repealed by
                               Ord. 41-2008
142-2007           11-1-2007   Creating a downtown          72.014
                               residential parking zone
                               Designating the city as a
143-2007           11-1-2007   participant in the Boyd      Not included
                               County solid waste
                               management area
                               Agreement between city and
144-2007           11-15-2007  Ashland City police members, TSO V
                               Fraternal Order of Police,
                               Ashland Lodge #3
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
145-2007           11-15-2007  procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
146-2007           11-15-2007  procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing grant
147-2007           11-15-2007  application in the amount of Not included
                               $20,000
                               Authorizing an agreement
148-2007           12-6-2007   with Ashland Bus System and  TSO VII
                               WLGC Radio
149-2007           12-6-2007   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Morton International, Inc.
150-2007           12-6-2007   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Green Valley Landfill
                               Lease agreement between city
151-2007           12-6-2007   and Hinkle Oil & Gas for a   TSO XIII
                               gas well
                               Executing a subordination of
152-2007           12-6-2007   liens and restrictive        Not included
                               covenants for the Pendleton
                               Art Center
153-2007           12-6-2007   Amending Ord. 79-2007        Not included
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
154-2007           12-6-2007   procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Creating an occupational
155, 2007          12-6-2007   license fee, repealing Ord.  TSO XVII
                               84-2004; repealed by Ord.
                               51, 2021
156-2007           12-20-2007  Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Taylor Chevrolet, Inc.
                               Agreement with Ashland City
157-2007           12-20-2007  firefighters, Local 706,     TSO V
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters
158-2007           12-20-2007  Closing a portion of 23rd    TSO XIV
                               Street
                               Repealing Ord. 99-2007 and
                               establishing regulations for
159-2007           12-20-2007  comprehensive hiring of      TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealed by
                               Ord. 12-2009
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
160-2007           12-20-2007  procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
161-2007           12-20-2007  procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
162-2007           12-20-2007  procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
163-2007           12-21-2007  Amending quiet zone,         Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
                               repealing Ord. 51-2000
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an employee
                               assistance program
1-2008             1-3-2008    management agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Ashland
                               Hospital Corporation d/b/
                               a UK King s Daughters
2-2008             1-3-2008    Adopting the S-27 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
3-2008             1-3-2008    procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a consulting
4-2008             1-17-2008   services agreement between   TSO VII
                               the city and Capital Access,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
5-2008             2-7-2008    the city, Ashland Bus System TSO VII
                               and Kindred Communications,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
6-2008             2-7-2008    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and C.J. Hughes
                               Construction Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
7-2008             2-7-2008    execute task order #4        TSO VII
                               between the city and KZF
                               Design, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an annual letter of
8-2008             2-7-2008    commitment for the           Not included
                               Renaissance on Main/Main
                               Street program
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
9-2008             2-21-2008   execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and R & S
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
10-2008            2-21-2008   execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
11-2008            2-21-2008   execute with Delta Chemical  TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
12-2008            2-21-2008   execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               General Chemical Performance
                               Products, LLC
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
13-2008            2-21-2008   execute a contract with AK   TSO VII
                               Steel Corporation
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
14-2008            2-21-2008   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Morton Salt
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
15-2008            2-21-2008   execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
16-2008            2-21-2008   execute a contract with      TSO VII
                               Univar USA, Inc.
                               Amending agreement between
                               the city and Ashland City
17-2008            2-21-2008   police officers, Fraternal   TSO V
                               Order of Police, Ashland
                               Lodge #3
18-2008            2-21-2008   Amending Table of Permitted  157.207
                               and Conditional Uses
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
19-2008            2-21-2008   procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Repealing and readopting the
                               rules and regulations for
20-2008            2-21-2008   the Police Department and    TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 81-2006;
                               repealed by Ord. 10-2009
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
21-2008            3-6-2008    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Badger Meter,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
22-2008            3-6-2008    execute a contract with C.I. TSO VII
                               Thornburg Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
23-2008            3-6-2008    the city and Southern Ohio   TSO XVII
                               Trenching & Excavating,
                               Inc.; repealed by Ord. 71-
                               2008
24-2008            3-6-2008    Amending the city medical    TSO VII
                               care plan
                               Amending the city medical
25-2008            3-6-2008    care plan, Fire Department   TSO VII
                               union plan
26-2008            3-6-2008    Prohibiting parking          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
27-2008            3-6-2008    Prohibiting parking          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a memorandum of
28-2008            3-20-2008   agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and the City of Bowling
                               Green, Kentucky
                               Amending agreement between
                               the city and Ashland City
29-2008            3-20-2008   firefighters, Local 706,     TSO V
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC
30-2008            3-20-2008   Adopting the safety policies Not included
                               of the city
31-2008            3-20-2008   Adopting the S-28 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Adjusting the compensation
32-2008            3-20-2008   for FY 2008-2009 for the     Not included
                               Mayor and City Commissioners
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
33-2008            4-3-2008    execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Taylor
                               Chevrolet, Inc.
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
34-2008            4-3-2008    execute an agreement between TSO VII
                               the city and Harbor Hill,
                               LLLP.
35-2008            4-3-2008    Designating a handicap       Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
36-2008            4-3-2008    submit a grant application   Not included
                               to the Kentucky Housing
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing execution of
37-2008            4-3-2008    contract with GWS Unlimited, TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of
38-2008            4-3-2008    contract with GWS Unlimited, TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of
39-2008            4-3-2008    contract with Mountain       TSO IV
                               Enterprises, Inc.
40-2008            4-3-2008    Designating a handicapped    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
                               Adopting by reference the
                               2007 Kentucky Building and
41-2008            4-17-2008   Residential Codes and        TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 141-2007;
                               repealed by Ord. 116-2013
                               Amending part of the
                               policies and procedures,
42-2008            4-17-2008   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing submission of
                               2008 action plan to the U.S.
43-2008            4-17-2008   Department of HUD for a      TSO IV
                               community development block
                               grant
44-2008            5-1-2008    Prohibiting parking in       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain area
                               Amending parking meter zones
45-2008            5-1-2008    by removing parking meters   TSO XVII
                               in certain area; repealed by
                               Ord. 52-2016
                               Criteria for appointment and
46-2008            5-1-2008    continued service of board   35.03
                               and commission members
                               Authorizing execution of
47-2008            5-15-2008   agreement with Ashland Bus   TSO VII
                               System and Clear Channel
                               Communications
                               Authorizing execution of
48-2008            5-15-2008   contract with L&D            TSO IV
                               Construction
                               Authorizing execution of
49-2008            5-15-2008   contract with Taylor         TSO VII
                               Chevrolet, Inc.
                               Authoring execution of
50-2008            5-15-2008   municipal lease and option   TSO VII
                               agreement with Republic
                               First National Corp.
                               Directing submission of FY
                               2009 grant application to
51-2008            5-15-2008   Federal Transit              Not included
                               Administration for Ashland
                               Bus System
52-2008            5-15-2008   Adopting the S-29 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending part of the
                               policies and procedures,
53-2008            5-15-2008   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Changing regularly scheduled
54-2008            6-4-2008    meeting of Board of          Not included
                               Commissioners
                               Approving renewal with
55-2008            6-5-2008    MEDBEN for administrative    Not included
                               fees for administer medical
                               plans
                               Adopting streamlined PHA
                               five-year plan (2005- 2009)
56-2008            6-5-2008    and one-year plan (2008) to  TSO IV
                               be submitted to U.S.
                               Department of HUD
                               Directing submission of
                               request to Kentucky Housing
57-2008            6-5-2008    Corp. for funding for        Not included
                               demolition/reconstruction of
                               dilapidated housing
                               Amending parking meter zones
58-2008            6-5-2008    by removing parking meters   TSO XVII
                               in certain area; repealed by
                               Ord. 52-2016
                               Amending water rates, tap
                               fees, installation charges,
59-2008            6-5-2008    service charges, penalties   TSO XVII
                               and interest; repealed by
                               Ord. 32-2018
                               Amending part of the
                               policies and procedures,
60-2008            6-5-2008    compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
61-2008            6-9-2008    Amending FY 2007-2008 budget Not included
62-2008            6-9-2008    Adopting the FY 2008-2009    Not included
                               annual budget
63-2008            6-9-2008    Fixing bank deposits         TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax levy for 2008
                               Fixing regulatory license
64-2008            6-9-2008    fee from alcoholic beverage  TSO XVIII
                               sales for FY 7-1-2008 to 6-
                               30-2009
65-2008            6-23-2008   Adopting medical care plan,  TSO VII
                               amendment 7
66-2008            6-23-2008   Adopting Fire Department     TSO VII
                               union plan, amendment 4
                               Authorizing execution of
67-2008            6-23-2008   trust participation          TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Authorizing execution of
68-2008            6-23-2008   grant agreement with Boyd    TSO VII
                               County, Ashland-Boyd County
                               Airport Board and FAA
                               Authorizing execution of
69-2008            6-23-2008   task order #7 with Strand    TSO VII
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing execution of
70-2008            6-23-2008   change order #1 with         TSO VII
                               Southern Ohio Trenching &
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Repealing Ord. 23-2008
71-2008            6-23-2008   authorizing contract with    TSO XVII
                               Southern Ohio Trenching and
                               Excavating, Inc.
72-2008            6-23-2008   Prohibiting parking in       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain area
                               Establishing substantive and
                               procedural requirements for  151.15;
73-2008            6-23-2008   building and demolition      151.27;
                               permits, fixing fees and     151.99
                               repealing Ord. 47-1997
                               Amending part of the
                               policies and procedures,
74-2008            6-23-2008   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
                               levy for 2008, payable in
75-2008            7-17-2008   2008, on real estate,        TSO XVIII
                               personal property and
                               franchises in the city
76-2008            8-7-2008    Amending Ord. 70-2008        Not included
                               Delegation of authority for
77-2008            8-7-2008    Stephen W. Corbitt to act as Not included
                               the certifying officer to
                               release HOME program funds
                               Amending Ord. 146-2005
78-2008            8-7-2008    regarding scope of the       Not included
                               project
                               Authorizing a contract
                               between the city and
79-2008            8-21-2008   Professional Maintenance of  TSO VII
                               Ohio Valley for weekly
                               janitorial services for the
                               city building
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Ashland
80-2008            8-21-2008   City firefighters, Local     TSO V
                               706, International
                               Association of Firefighters,
                               AFL-CIO-CLC
                               Amending water rates, tap
                               fees, installation charges,
81-2008            8-21-2008   and service charges,         TSO XVII
                               penalties and interest;
                               repealed
                               Amending part of the
                               policies and procedures,
82-2008            8-21-2008   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Amending the FY 2006 grant
                               application to the Federal
83-2008            8-21-2008   Transit Administration on    Not included
                               behalf of the bus system
                               adopted by Ord. 64-2005
                               Amending part of the
                               policies and procedures,
84-2008            9-4-2008    compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Authorizing a contract
                               between the city and River
                               Cities Disposal, LLC for a
85-2008            9-4-2008    suitable landfill location   TSO VII
                               for the receipt and disposal
                               of compacted garbage and
                               refuse, rubble and rubbish
                               Approving change order no. 2
86-2008            9-4-2008    between the city and         Not included
                               Southern Ohio Trenching &
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Executing task order #5
87-2008            9-4-2008    between the city and KZF     TSO XVII
                               Design, Inc.; repealed
                               Authorizing the acceptance
88-2008            9-4-2008    of the eastern half of Lot   TSO I
                               70 and all of Lot 71 on
                               Weymouth Drive
89-2008            9-4-2008    Adopting the S-30 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing a contract with
90-2008            9-18-2008   Community Assistance and     TSO VII
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
91-2008            9-18-2008   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO VII
                               Kentucky, Inc.
92-2008            9-18-2008   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               the Salvation Army
93-2008            9-18-2008   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               between the city and Wooten
                               Group LLC d/b/a Miss Got
94-2008            9-18-2008   Rocks regarding an           TSO VII
                               encroachment for the paint
                               of a portion of the city s
                               sidewalk at 317 15th Street
95-2008            9-18-2008   Designating hazardous        Not included
                               positions in city employment
                               Executing loan documents
                               between the city and Harbor
                               Hill, LLLP in the amount of
96-2008            9-18-2008   $150,000 regarding the CBDG  Not included
                               renovation of the former TB
                               Hospital Project for the
                               Department of Planning and
                               Community Development
                               Approving change order no. 1
97-2008            9-18-2008   between the city and         TSO IV
                               Frontier Housing, Inc.
98-2008            9-18-2008   Approving an encroachment    TSO IV
99-2008            9-18-2008   Agreement for repair of      TSO VII
                               traffic signals
                               Authorizing agreement and
100-2008           10-2-2008   repealing Ords. 130-1991,    TSO XI;
                               113-1992 and 43-2008;        TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 107-2008
101-2008           10-2-2008   Repealing Ord. 87-2008       TSO XVII
102-2008           10-2-2008   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Prichard Lawncare, Inc.
                               Executing an agreement
103-2008           10-16-2008  between the city, Ashland    TSO VII
                               Bus System and Kindred
                               Communications, Inc.
                               Executing and agreement with
104-2008           10-16-2008  the city, Ashland Bus System TSO VII
                               and WLGC radio
105-2008           10-16-2008  Prohibited parking in        Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain area
106                10-16-2008  Designating a handicapped    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
107-2008           11-6-2008   Repealing Ord. 100-2008      TSO XVII
                               Amending the provisions of   94.01;
108-2008           10-2-2008   noise control                94.07;
                                                            94.99
109-2008           11-6-2008   Amending policies and        Not included
                               procedures
110-2008           11-6-2008   Adopting the S-31 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
111-2008           11-20-2008  Executing a deed of          TSO XIII
                               conveyance
                               Authorizing a contract with
112-2008           11-20-2008  Green Valley Landfill,       TSO VII
                               General Partnership
                               Authorizing contract with
113-2008           11-20-2008  Morton Salt International,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
114-2008           12-4-2008   Amending Ord. 110-2006       TSO IV;
                                                            99.06
115-2008           11-20-2008  Amending pawnbrokers;        116.04
                               receipts
116-2008           11-20-2008  Amending special meetings    30.02
117-2008           11-20-2008  Prohibited parking in        Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain area
118-2008           12-4-2008   Agreement between city and   TSO VII
                               Bob and Nancy Tilton
119-2008           12-4-2008   Approving a lease            TSO VII
120-2008           12-4-2008   Agreement for construction   TSO VII
                               of a police station
121-2008           12-4-2008   Changing meeting date        30.06
122-2008           12-4-2008   Amending policies and        Not included
                               procedures
                               Agreement for home
123-2008           12-18-2008  investment partnership       TSO XI
                               program funds
                               Agreement for home
124-2008           12-18-2008  investment partnership       TSO XI
                               program funds
                               Grant application for
1-2009             1-15-2009   Neighborhood Stabilization   TSO XI
                               Program Funds
                               Adopting the 2008 amended
2-2009             2-5-2009    community development block  TSO XI
                               grant (CDBG) action plan
3-2009             2-5-2009    Amending Ord. 103-2004       TSO VII
4-2009             2-19-2009   Grant application for a 2009 TSO XI
                               safety and liability grant
5-2009             2-19-2009   Prohibited parking in        Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain area
6-2009             2-19-2009   Amending Ord. 138-2006       TSO IV
7-2009             2-19-2009   Amending Ord. 103-2004       TSO VII
                               Amending the personnel
8-2009             2-19-2009   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
9-2009             2-19-2009   procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan
                               Amending the rules and
10-2009            2-19-2009   regulations of the Police    TSO XVII
                               Department; repealing Ord.
                               20-2008.
                               Adding provisions for the
11-2009            2-19-2009   pretreatment enforcement     50.132
                               response plan
                               Establishing regulations for
                               comprehensive hiring of
12-2009            2-19-2009   police officers; repealing   TSO XVII
                               Ord. 159-2007; repealed by
                               Ord. 115-2009
13-2009            2-25-2009   Executing a deed of          TSO XIII
                               conveyance
14-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
15-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Carbon Activated Corporation
16-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc.
17-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Delta Chemical Corporation
                               Authorizing a contract with
18-2009            3-5-2009    General Chemical Performance TSO VII
                               Products, LLC
19-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               AK Steel Corporation
20-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Morton Salt
21-2009            3-5-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
22-2009            3-5-2009    Designating handicapped      Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking spaces
                               Amending regulations for
23-2009            3-5-2009    hiring within the Fire       TSO XVII
                               Department; repealing Ord.
                               46-2007
24-2009            3-5-2009    Agreement to replace         TSO XI
                               existing phone system
25-2009            3-19-2009   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Badger Meter, Inc.
26-2009            3-19-2009   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Boyd County Ford, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
27-2009            3-19-2009   Southern Ohio Trenching and  TSO VII
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement
28-2009            3-19-2009   between the Commonwealth of  TSO IV
                               Kentucky and the Police
                               Department
29-2009            3-19-2009   Closing Payne s Alley        TSO XIV
30-2009            3-19-2009   Inflatable playgrounds in    TSO XVII
                               Central Park
31-2009            4-2-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Smith Contractors, Inc.
32-2009            4-2-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
33-2009            4-2-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Mark Morris Contracting
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute and submit a grant
                               application in the amount of
34-2009            4-2-2009    $43,968 to the U.S.          Not included
                               Department of Justice,
                               Office of Justice Programs,
                               Bureau of Justice Assistance
                               Amending the personnel
35-2009            4-2-2009    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit a grant application
36-2009            4-2-2009    to the Kentucky Housing      Not included
                               Corporation under the
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Authorizing a contract with
37-2009            4-2-2009    Kentucky Department of       TSO VII
                               Military Affairs, Division
                               of Emergency Management
                               Naming the Central Park
38-2009            4-16-2009   tennis courts the Bruce      Not included
                               Craft Tennis Courts
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a HUD Statutory
39-2009            4-16-2009   Worksheet authorizing the    Not included
                               Housing Authority of Ashland
                               to spend $601,652
40-2009            4-17-2009   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               PND Engineers, Inc.
41-2009            4-17-2009   Accepting the proposal of    TSO VII
                               Triad Engineering, Inc.
42-2009            4-17-2009   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
43-2009            4-17-2009   with the U.S. Department of  TSO VII
                               Housing and Urban
                               Development
                               Amending the personnel
44-2009            4-17-2009   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
45-2009            4-17-2009   Adopting the S-32 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit a grant application
46-2009            5-7-2009    in the amount of $911,250    Not included
                               through the American
                               Recovery and Reinvestment
                               Act of 2009
                               Authorizing an agreement
47-2009            5-21-2009   with Carter and Theresia     TSO VII
                               Gussler
48-2009            5-21-2009   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with John and Kelly McMeans
                               Authorizing a contract with
49-2009            5-21-2009   General Heating and Air      TSO VII
                               Conditioning, Inc.
50-2009            5-21-2009   Authorizing a work order     TSO VII
                               with HDR Engineering, Inc.
                               Amending the wastewater
51-2009            5-21-2009   treatment plan respiratory   Not included
                               protection plan of the
                               safety policies of the city
                               Amending sewer rates, fees,
                               charges, industrial
52-2009            5-21-2009   pretreatment charges and     TSO XVII
                               penalties; repealing Ord.
                               81-2005; repealed
                               Changing the zoning
53-2009            5-21-2009   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
                               Changing the zoning
54-2009            5-21-2009   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
                               Designating loading/
                               unloading zones within the
                               city; repealing Ords. 13-
                               1978, 11-1980, 28-1980, 60-
                               1980, 66-1982, 72-1982, 144-
                               1983, 149-1983, 27-1984, 56-
                               1984, 89-1984, 39-1985, 60-  Ch. 75, Sch. IV;
55-2009            5-7-2009    1985, 87-1985, 100-1985,     TSO XVII
                               101-1985, 9-1986, 10-1986,
                               117-1987, 143-1987, 84-1988,
                               136-1989, 7-1990, 19-1990,
                               91-1990, 138-1990, 5-1991,
                               87-1991, 88-1991, 99-1991,
                               133-1991, 21-1992, 130-1997,
                               95-2004
                               Establishing procedures for
                               the use of city streets,
56-2009            5-21-2009   rights-of-way or facilities  TSO XVII
                               for street events; repealing
                               Ord. 109-2007
                               Authorizing a contract with
57-2009            6-2-2009    U.S. Bearing and Power       TSO VII
                               Transmission Corp.
                               Authorizing a contract with
58-2009            6-2-2009    Southern Ohio Trenching &    TSO VII
                               Excavating, Inc.
59-2009            6-2-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               C.I. Thornburg
                               Accepting the proposal of
                               H.C. Nutting in the amount
                               of $47,719 to provide
60-2009            6-2-2009    instrumentation monitoring   Not included
                               and testing for Phase I of
                               the riverfront
                               revitalization project
61-2009            6-2-2009    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Municipal Equipment, Inc.
                               Adopting the housing choice
62-2009            6-2-2009    voucher program 2009         155.04
                               administrative and annual
                               plan
63-2009            6-2-2009    Adopting the S-33 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending the personnel
64-2009            6-2-2009    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Amending the personnel
65-2009            6-2-2009    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
66-2009            6-3-2009    Adopting the 2008 amended    TSO IV
                               CDBG action plan
                               Approving and adopting the
                               2009-2010 budget and
67-2009            6-4-2009    appropriating revenues on    Not included
                               hand and to be received
                               during the year 2009-2010
                               for the payment of expenses
69-2009            6-4-2009    Fixing the regulatory        TSO XVIII
                               license fee at 3.5
70-2009            6-18-2009   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Evapar, Inc.
71-2009            6-18-2009   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Utility Service Co., Inc.
72-2009            6-18-2009   Providing for advertisement  TSO X
                               and sale of a franchise
73-2009            6-18-2009   Providing for advertisement  TSO X
                               and sale of a franchise
                               Amending Article XVI of the
74-2009            6-18-2009   rules and regulations of the TSO XVII
                               Police Department
                               Amending the personnel
75-2009            6-18-2009   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Cancelling the regularly
76-2009            6-18-2009   scheduled meeting of the     Not included
                               Board of City Commissioners
                               Approving a renewal with
77-2009            6-18-2009   Medical Benefits             Not included
                               Administrators, Inc.
                               Authorizing an interlocal
78-2009            6-18-2009   agreement with the County of TSO XI
                               Boyd
                               Authorizing an interlocal
79-2009            6-18-2009   agreement with the County of TSO XI
                               Boyd
80-2009            6-29-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Frontier Housing, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
81-2009            6-29-2009   Community Assistance and     TSO VII
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
82-2009            6-29-2009   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO VII
                               Kentucky, Inc.
83-2009            6-29-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               the Salvation Army
84-2009            6-29-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
85-2009            6-29-2009   Service Pump and Supply,     TSO VII
                               Inc.
86-2009            6-29-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Jack Doheny Supplies, Inc.
                               Authorizing grant
87-2009            6-29-2009   application on behalf of bus TSO IV
                               system
                               Authorizing grant
88-2009            6-29-2009   application on behalf of bus TSO IV
                               system
                               Adopting Title VI Plan
89-2009            6-29-2009   (Civil rights assurance) to  TSO XVII
                               receive federal funding for
                               bus system
                               Addition of two maintenance
90-2009            6-29-2009   positions in Division of     Not included
                               Wastewater Collection
                               Revised job description for
91-2009            6-29-2009   Assistant City Clerk/ABC     Not included
                               Administrator
                               Amending personnel policies
92-2009            6-29-2009   and procedures, tuition      Not included
                               assistance
93-2009            6-29-2009   Amending FY 2008-2009 budget Not included
94-2009            6-30-2009   Authorizing contract for     TSO IV
                               repair of traffic signals
                               Authorizing agreement
95-2009            6-30-2009   regarding encroachment for   TSO IV
                               installation of parking lot
                               Authorizing agreement
96-2009            6-30-2009   regarding encroachment for   TSO IV
                               parking
97-2009            6-30-2009   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               for 2009
                               Adopting 2009 amended
98-2009            6-30-2009   community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
99-2009            7-16-2009   Compensation for Mayor and   Not included
                               Commissioners
100-2009           8-6-2009    Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Newtech Systems, Inc.
                               Accepting proposal of H.C.
                               Nutting for construction
101-2009           8-6-2009    materials for Phase I of     Not included
                               riverfront revitalization
                               project
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Boyd County sanitation       TSO VII;
102-2009           8-6-2009    district no. 4; repealing    TSO XVII
                               Ords. 130-1991, 113-1992;
                               repealed
                               Authorizing trust
103-2009           8-6-2009    participation agreements     Not included
                               with Kentucky League of
                               Cities
104-2009           8-6-2009    Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Harbor Hill, LLLP
105-2009           8-6-2009    Authorizing task order #8    TSO IV
                               with Strand Associates
                               Adopting 2009 Edition of     152.01;
106-2009           8-6-2009    International Property       152.03;
                               Maintenance Code; repealing  TSO XVII
                               Ord. 132-1996
                               Adopting amended Ch. 15,
107-2009           8-21-2009   Special Housing Types, of    155.04
                               Housing Choice Voucher
                               Program Administrative Plan
108-2009           8-20-2009   Amending stop sign schedule  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Amending the personnel
109-2009           8-20-2009   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
110-2009           8-20-2009   Adopting S-34 Supplement to  Not included
                               the code of ordinances
111-2009           9-3-2009    Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               River Cities Disposal, LLC
112-2009           9-3-2009    Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               E.H. Wachs
113-2009           9-3-2009    Amending building permit     151.17
                               fees
114-2009           9-3-2009    Amending time for Board of   30.06
                               Commissioners meetings
                               Amending regulations for
115-2009           9-3-2009    recruitment and selection of TSO XVII
                               police officers; repealing
                               Ord. 12-2009
                               Amending the personnel
116-2009           9-3-2009    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing agreement
117-2009           9-17-2009   regarding encroachment for   TSO IV
                               installation of parking and
                               landscaping
                               Authorizing agreement
118-2009           9-17-2009   regarding encroachment for   TSO IV
                               installation of sign and
                               parking
119-2009           9-17-2009   Granting franchise for gas   TSO X
                               distribution system
120-2009           9-17-2009   Granting franchise for gas   TSO X
                               distribution system
                               Authorizing change order for
121-2009           9-17-2009   contract regarding Putnam    TSO IV
                               Street sanitary sewer
                               improvements
                               Authorizing change order for
122-2009           9-17-2009   contract regarding           TSO IV
                               construction of police
                               station
123-2009           9-17-2009   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Ashland Cemetery Company
                               Authorizing deed of
124-2009           9-17-2009   conveyance with Ashland      TSO XIII
                               Cemetery Company
125-2009           9-17-2009   Creating Cemetery Division   35.27;
                               and Cemetery Board           35.29
                               Authorizing conditional
126-2009           9-17-2009   commitment letter regarding  TSO IV
                               Putnam Street sanitary sewer
                               replacement project
127-2009           9-17-2009   Prohibiting parking on both  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               sides of 15th Street
                               Amending the personnel
128-2009           9-17-2009   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing grant agreement
129-2009           9-17-2009   with Kentucky Housing        TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Authorizing contract with
130-2009           9-17-2009   Community Action Referral    TSO VII
                               Services (CAReS)
                               Authorizing contract with
131-2009           9-17-2009   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO VII
                               Kentucky
132-2009           9-17-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Salvation Army
133-2009           9-17-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope
                               Authorizing agreement
134-2009           10-1-2009   regarding encroachment for   TSO IV
                               parking
                               Authorizing agreement
135-2009           10-1-2009   regarding encroachment for   TSO IV
                               parking and landscaping
                               Authorizing contract to
136-2009           10-1-2009   install underground          TSO IV
                               electrical service
137-2009           10-1-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Tech Coat, Inc.
138-2009           10-1-2009   Authorizing drug task force  TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Amending the personnel
139-2009           10-1-2009   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing change order for
140-2009           10-15-2009  contract regarding           TSO IV
                               riverfront project - phase I
                               Authorizing change order for
141-2009           10-15-2009  contract regarding           TSO IV
                               riverfront project - phase I
                               Authorizing agreement with
142-2009           10-15-2009  Ashland Apartments LLC       TSO IV
                               regarding Sear s Building
                               Authorizing change order for
                               contract with Southern Ohio
143-2009           10-15-2009  Trenching and Excavating,    TSO IV
                               Inc. regarding Putnam Street
                               sanitary sewer improvements
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Mark Morris Contracting for
144-2009           10-15-2009  labor and materials for      TSO IV
                               concrete and asphalt repair
                               work
                               Authorizing contract with
145-2009           10-15-2009  Kentucky Power Company for   TSO IV
                               electrical contracting
                               services
                               Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV;
146-2009           10-15-2009  Fraternal Order of Police,   TSO V
                               Ashland Lodge #3
                               Amending rules and
147-2009           10-15-2009  regulations of Police        TSO XVII
                               Department
                               Authorizing contract with
148-2009           11-5-2009   BLK Construction for         TSO IV
                               concrete improvement program
                               Authorizing contract with
149-2009           11-5-2009   Branham Construction Co.     TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing grant agreement
150-2009           11-5-2009   with Kentucky Transportation TSO VII
                               Cabinet
151-2009           11-5-2009   Adopting amendment to        TSO VII
                               medical care plan
                               Authorizing change order for
152-2009           11-5-2009   contract regarding           TSO IV
                               Riverfront Project - Phase I
                               Authorizing change order
153-2009           11-19-2009  regarding Putnam Street      TSO IV
                               sanitary sewer improvement
                               project
154-2009           11-19-2009  Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Green Valley Landfill
155-2009           11-19-2009  Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Morton International, Inc.
                               Authorizing work order
156-2009           11-19-2009  agreement and HDR            TSO IV
                               Engineering, Inc.
157-2009           11-19-2009  Authorizing HUD statutory    TSO IV
                               worksheet
158-2009           11-19-2009  Amending provisions          157.003;
                               regarding conditional uses   157.182
159-2009           11-19-2009  Adopting S-35 Supplement to  Not included
                               the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing change order for
160-2009           11-19-2009  contract regarding water     TSO IV
                               plant filter media
                               replacement
161-2009           12-3-2009   Authorizing task order #9    TSO IV
                               with Strand Associates, Inc.
162-2009           12-3-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Newtech Systems, Inc.
163-2009           12-3-2009   Designating one-way street;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 37, 2025
164-2009           12-3-2009   Authorizing amendments to    Not included
                               dental benefits
165-2009           12-3-2009   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Area Charity Properties
                               Authorizing execution of
166-2009           12-3-2009   deed for purchase of         TSO XIII
                               property located at 4108
                               Brown Street
                               Authorizing change order for
01-2010            1-12-2010   contract regarding Pollard   TSO IV
                               Area infrastructure
                               improvements
                               Authorizing execution of
02-2010            1-12-2010   agreement for sale of        TSO VII
                               Greyhound tickets at Ashland
                               Transportation Center
                               Amending the personnel
03-2010            1-12-2010   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing change order for
04-2010            1-21-2010   contract regarding Putnam    TSO IV
                               Street sanitary sewer
                               improvements
                               Authorizing assistance
05-2010            1-21-2010   agreement for loan funds for TSO IV
                               wastewater system
                               improvements
6-2010             1-21-2010   Revising costs for cemetery  35.27;
                               services                     35.29
                               Amending the personnel
                               policies and procedures,
7-2010             1-21-2010   compensation and             Not included
                               classification plan (salary
                               schedule)
                               Amending the personnel
8-2010             1-21-2010   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Authorizing work order
09-2010            2-4-2010    agreement for development of TSO IV
                               hydraulic model for Ashland
                               water distribution system
                               Authorizing execution of
10-2010            2-11-2010   interagency agreement known  TSO XI
                               as the Safe Schools/Healthy
                               Students Initiative
                               Authorizing change order for
11-2010            2-11-2010   contract regarding           TSO IV
                               Riverfront project
                               Authorizing execution of
12-2010            2-11-2010   right-of-way easement for    TSO IX
                               relocation of guy pole at
                               riverfront
                               Authorizing change order for
13-2010            2-11-2010   contract regarding electric  TSO IV
                               systems for city building
                               and new police station
                               Authorizing change order for
14-2010            2-11-2010   contract regarding video     TSO IV
                               security system for Scope
                               Towers - Building 1
                               Authorizing execution of
15-2010            2-11-2010   lease agreement for lease of Not included
                               used police vehicle to City
                               of Wurtland
                               Authorizing execution of
16-2010            2-11-2010   quitclaim deed for 20-foot   TSO XIII
                               by 20-foot property on
                               Franklin Street
                               Amending sewer tap fees,
17-2010            2-18-2010   connection charges, security TSO XVII
                               deposit, and adding
                               surcharge; repealed
                               Authorizing execution of
18-2010            1-12-2010   contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
19-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
20-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
21-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
22-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
23-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
24-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               salt for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
25-2010            3-4-2010    contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               chemicals for Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing execution of
26-2010            3-4-2010    contract regarding second    TSO IV
                               floor restoration of
                               historic freight depot
                               Authorizing execution of
27-2010            3-4-2010    lease agreement for parking  TSO XIII
                               spaces on parking lot at
                               15th and Greenup
                               Amending the personnel
28-2010            3-4-2010    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
29-2010            3-18-2010   Adopting 2009 amended CDBG   TSO IV
                               action plan
30-2010            3-18-2010   Amending FY 2009-2010 budget Not included
                               Amending the personnel
31-2010            3-18-2010   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Amending the personnel
32-2010            3-18-2010   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Amending sewer tap fees,
33-2010            3-18-2010   connection charges, security TSO XVII
                               deposit, and surcharge;
                               repealed by Ord. 32-2018
                               Authorizing grant
34-2010            3-18-2010   application under the 2010   TSO IV
                               emergency shelter grant
                               program
                               Adopting the housing choice
35-2010            4-1-2010    voucher program 2010         155.04
                               administrative and annual
                               plan
                               Amending the personnel
36-2010            4-1-2010    policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation and
                               classification plan
                               Adopting amendments to
37-2010            4-1-2010    medical care plan and Fire   Not included
                               Department union plan
                               Executing a contract between
38-2010            4-15-2010   the city and Boyd County     TSO VII
                               Ford
                               Executing a contract between
39-2010            4-15-2010   the city and Boyd County     TSO VII
                               Ford
                               Executing a contract between
40-2010            4-15-2010   the city and C.I. Thornburg  TSO VII
                               Company, Inc.
                               Executing a contract between
41-2010            4-15-2010   the city and Mountain        TSO VII
                               Enterprises, Inc.
                               Executing a contract between
42-2010            4-15-2010   the city and Service Pump    TSO VII
                               and Supply Co., Inc.
                               Executing and agreement
43-2010            4-15-2010   between the city and UK King TSO VII
                               s Daughters
44-2010            4-15-2010   Prohibiting parking during   72.999;
                               certain hours                Ch. 75, Sch. VII
45-2010            4-15-2010   Creating loading zones       Ch. 75, Sch. IV
46-2010            4-15-2010   Adopting S-36 Supplement to  Not included
                               the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing a contract
47-2010            5-6-2010    between the city and         TSO VII
                               Municipal Equipment, Inc.
                               Submitting the 2010 action
48-2010            5-6-2010    plan in the sum of $851,529  TSO XI
                               for a community development
                               plan block grant
49-2010            5-6-2010    Authorizing submittal of the Not included
                               2010 action plan
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures plan,
50-2010            5-20-2010   compensation plan and        TSO XVII
                               classification plan
                               regarding job descriptions
51-2010            5-24-2010   Amending discharge           TSO IV
                               limitations
                               Approving change order no. 2 TSO IV;
52-2010            5-24-2010   between the city and KYOVA   TSO XVII
                               Electric
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures plan,
53-2010            5-24-2010   compensation plan and        Not included
                               classification plan
                               regarding job descriptions
54-2010            6-3-2010    Adopting the 2010-2011       TSO XVIII
                               budget
55-2010            6-3-2010    Fixing the tax levy for the  TSO XVIII
                               year 2010
56-2010            6-3-2010    Adjusting compensation for   Not included
                               FY 2010-2011
                               Authorizing a contract
57-2010            6-17-2010   between the city and BLK     TSO VII
                               Construction, LLC
                               Authorizing and agreement
58-2010            6-17-2010   between the city and the     TSO VII
                               Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
59-2010            6-17-2010   Closing a portion of Gum     TSO XIV
                               Alley
                               Authorizing an assistance
60-2010            6-17-2010   agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and the Kentucky
                               Infrastructure Authority
61-2010            6-17-2010   Adopting S-37 Supplement to  Not included
                               the code of ordinances
62-2010            6-17-2010   Approving a lease            TSO VII
                               Authorizing an amendment to
63-2010            6-17-2010   the Boyd County interlocal   TSO XI
                               cooperation agreement
                               Regarding post-construction  52.35;
64-2010            6-24-2010   storm water management       52.45;
                                                            52.99
65-2010            6-24-2010   Designating a handicap       Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
66-2010            6-24-2010   Prohibiting parking on       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain streets
67-2010            6-24-2010   Authorizing the submission   TSO XVII
                               of a grant application
                               Amending rules and
68-2010            6-24-2010   regulations for use of       TSO XVII
                               Central Park and other parks
69-2010            6-24-2010   Fixing ad valorem taxes for  TSO XVIII
                               FY 2010
70-2010            6-24-2010   Fixing regulatory license    TSO XVIII
                               fees
71-2010            6-24-2010   Amending the FY 2009-2010    Not included
                               budget
                               Approving a renewal with
72-2010            6-24-2010   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc. for
                               fees
73-2010            7-15-2010   Change order no. 1 amending  TSO IV
                               Ord. 26-2010
                               Authorizing a contract
                               between the city, Neighbors
74-2010            7-15-2010   Helping Neighbors and        TSO VII
                               Heritage Fire Protection,
                               Inc.
75-2010            8-5-2010    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               BLK Construction LLC
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures plan,
                               compensation plan and
76-2010            8-5-2010    classification plan          Not included
                               regarding job descriptions
                               and as adopted by Ord. 77-
                               2003 and previously amended
                               Amending part of the
                               personnel policies and
77-2010            8-5-2010    procedures, compensation and Not included
                               classification plan as
                               adopted by Ord. 77-2003 and
                               previously amended
                               Amending door to door        120.01;
78-2010            8-5-2010    solicitation regulations and 120.02;
                               repealing Ord. 1-1987        120.99;
                                                            TSO XVII
79-2010            8-19-2010   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Community Assistance
                               Authorizing a contract with
80-2010            8-19-2010   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO VII
                               Kentucky, Inc.
81-2010            8-19-2010   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               the Salvation Army
82-2010            8-19-2010   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract
                               between the city, Area
83-2010            8-19-2010   Charity Properties, Inc.,    TSO VII
                               Neighbors Helping Neighbors
                               and Corder Builders, Inc.
84-2010            8-19-2010   Repealing Ord. 92-2007       TSO XVII
85-2010            8-19-2010   Adopting the S-38 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
86-2010            8-19-2010   Authorizing a trust          TSO VII
                               participation agreement
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures plan,
                               compensation plan and
87-2010            9-2-2010    classification plan          TSO VII
                               regarding job descriptions
                               and as adopted by Ord. 77-
                               2003 and previously amended
                               Authorizing a contract
88-2010            9-2-2010    between the city and River   TSO VII
                               Cities Disposal
                               Authorizing a contract
89-2010            9-2-2010    between the city and Cintas  TSO VII
                               Corp.
                               Amending personnel policies
                               and procedures plan,
                               compensation plan and
90-2010            9-2-2010    classification plan          Not included
                               regarding job descriptions
                               and as adopted by Ord. 77-
                               2003 and previously amended
                               Amending Ord. 145-1999
91-2010            9-2-2010    regarding meetings for Board TSO XI
                               of Commissioners
                               Authorizing a contract
92-2010            9-16-2010   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Prichard Lawncare
                               Authorizing a contract
93-2010            9-2-2010    between the city, the        TSO VII
                               Housing Authority and Mark
                               Morris Contracting
                               Authorizing and approving
94-2010            9-16-2010   change order no. 5 and       TSO VII
                               amending Ord. 21-2009
95-2010            9-16-2010   Authorizing an interagency   TSO XI
                               agreement
                               Amending the medical care
96-2010            9-16-2010   plan as adopted by Ord. 103- TSO VII
                               2004
                               Adopting the five year
97-2010            9-16-2010   strategic plan for the       TSO IV
                               Department of Economic
                               Development
                               Contract for labor and
98-2010            10-7-2010   equipment to renovate city   TSO IV
                               building
                               Providing for rules and
99-2010            10-21-2010  regulations for Port of      TSO XVII
                               Ashland, Riverside Park
100-2010           10-21-2010  Designating 30-minute        Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking spaces
                               Prohibiting parking on
101-2010           10-21-2010  designated portions of 25th  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Street
                               Amending the authorized
102-2010           10-21-2010  positions listing as adopted Not included
                               by Ord. 77-2003
                               Amending the Fire Department
103-2010           10-21-2010  hiring ordinance - points    TSO XVII
                               and rankings
                               Authorizing a client work
104-2010           10-21-2010  order agreement to provide   TSO IV
                               engineering services
                               Contract with state
105-2010           11-4-2010   equipment for construction   TSO VII
                               trailer
                               Authorizing a lease
106-2010           11-4-2010   agreement with the City of   TSO XIII
                               Greenup
107-2010           11-4-2010   Authorizing contract for     TSO IV
                               Oliverio Park renovation
                               Authorizing change order #2
108-2010           11-4-2010   for restoration of the       TSO IV
                               Historical Freight Depot,
                               amending Ord. 26-2010
109-2010           11-4-2010   Authorizing the closure of a TSO XIV
                               portion of an alley
                               Adopting revised job
110-2010           11-4-2010   descriptions as adopted by   Not included
                               Ord. 77-2003
111-2010           11-4-2010   Authorizing an encroachment  TSO IV
                               for a projecting sign
                               Authorizing a contract for
112-2010           11-18-2010  heating and air for the      TSO IV
                               Historical Freight Depot
113-2010           11-18-2010  Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the purchase of rock salt
                               Authorizing task order #10
                               with Strand Ass. regarding
114-2010           11-18-2010  sewer overflow long term     TSO VII
                               control plan, amending Ord.
                               67-2005
                               Amending Ord. 146-2009
115-2010           11-18-2010  regarding agreement with     TSO V
                               police officers
                               Authorizing a deed of
116-2010           11-18-2010  conveyance for the purchase  TSO XIII
                               of property
                               Changing the zoning
117-2010           11-18-2010  classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
118-2010           11-18-2010  Amending definitions         10.02
119-2010           11-18-2010  Adopting the S-39 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Contract with Rumpke for the
120-2010           12-2-2010   removal and disposal of      TSO VII
                               sludge
                               Amending hiring practices
121-2010           12-2-2010   for police officers;         TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 115-2009;
                               repealed by Ord. 49-2014
122-2010           12-2-2010   Identity theft red flags     31.065;
                                                            31.074
1-2011             1-6-2011    Change order to a contract   TSO IV
2-2011             1-6-2011    Contract with C.J. Hughes    TSO VII
                               Construction Co. Inc.
3-2011             1-6-2011    Contract with Clay Pipeline, TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               License agreement with ASCAP
4-2011             1-6-2011    regarding performing member  TSO VII
                               works
5-2011             1-20-2011   Contract between the city    TSO VII
                               and Kentucky Power Company
                               Professional services
6-2011             1-20-2011   agreement with E.L. Robinson TSO VII
                               Engineering Company, Inc.
                               Employee assistance
7-2011             1-20-2011   agreement between city and   TSO VII
                               Ashland Hospital Corporation
                               Amending zoning map by
8-2011             1-20-2011   changing zoning              TSO XVI
                               classification
                               Amendment to task order #9
9-2011             1-20-2011   between city and Strand      TSO VII
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing change order no.
                               1 between the city and CTB,
10-2011            1-20-2011   Inc. for a contract          TSO VII
                               regarding renovation of city
                               building
                               Authorizing change order
11-2011            1-20-2011   between city and Clay        TSO VII
                               Pipeline Inc. for contract
12-2011            2-3-2011    Agreement between city and   TSO VII
                               HDR Engineering
                               Authorizing task order
13-2011            2-3-2011    between city and HDR         TSO VII
                               Engineering
                               Authorizing task order
14-2011            2-3-2011    between city and HDR         TSO VII
                               Engineering
                               Adopting the 2010 amended
15-2011            2-3-2011    community development block  TSO IV
                               grant action plan
                               Repealing Ord. 38-2006 and
                               providing for the orderly
16-2011            2-3-2011    succession of the office of  30.07
                               Mayor in the event of a
                               national or state emergency
17-2011            2-3-2011    Repealing 2-1966 regulating  TSO XVII
                               sale of firearms
                               Approving change order to
18-2011            2-17-2011   contract between city and    TSO VII
                               CTB, Inc.
                               Agreement with Fields
19-2011            2-17-2011   Excavating, Inc. for pump    TSO VII
                               station improvements
20-2011            2-17-2011   Amending budget ordinance    Not included
21-2011            3-3-2011    Agreement with Community     TSO VII
                               Hospice
22-2011            3-3-2011    Contract with Brenntag Mid-  TSO VII
                               South, Inc.
23-2011            3-3-2011    Contract with Carbon         TSO VII
                               Activated Corporation
24-2011            3-3-2011    Contract with C.I. Thornburg TSO VII
                               Co., Inc.
25-2011            3-3-2011    Contract with Delta Chemical TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Contract with General
26-2011            3-3-2011    Chemical Performance         TSO VII
                               Products, LLC
                               Contract with Ashland
27-2011            3-3-2011    Hercules Water Technologies, TSO VII
                               Hercules Inc.
28-2011            3-3-2011    Contract with Polydyne, Inc. TSO VII
29-2011            3-3-2011    Contract BLK Construction,   TSO VII
                               LLC
30-2011            3-3-2011    Acceptance of a grant to     Not included
                               assist firefighters
                               Contract for materials and
31-2011            3-17-2011   labor to convert apartment   TSO IV
                               into handicap accessible
                               apartment funded by HUD
                               Authorizing a change order
32-2011            3-17-2011   for a contract regarding     TSO IV
                               renovating the City Building
33-2011            3-17-2011   Collective bargaining        TSO V
                               agreement with firefighters
                               Adopting revised job
34-2011            3-17-2011   descriptions as adopted by   Not included
                               Ord. 77-2003
                               Providing rules and          100.01;
35-2011            3-17-2011   regulations for the use of   100.09;
                               the Ashland Cemetery         100.99
                               Providing rules and
                               regulations for the use of
                               Central Park and other city
36-2011            3-17-2011   parks; repealing Ords. 131-  TSO XVII
                               1983, 49-1985, 85-1986, 47-
                               1990, 118-2000, 96-2001,
                               108-2001, 79-2004, 137-2005,
                               52-2006, 39-2009, 68-2010
                               Amending traffic schedule
37-2011            3-17-2011   relating to one-way traffic; TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 89-1981;
                               repealed by Ord. 37, 2025
38-2011            3-17-2011   Adopting the S-40 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Adopting the 2010 CDBG
39-2011            3-17-2011   action plan for Department   TSO IV
                               of Economic Development
40-2011            3-29-2011   Lease agreement for pickup   TSO VII
                               truck
                               Grant application for the
41-2011            3-29-2011   Shelter of Hope, Safe Harbor TSO IV
                               and Salvation Army
                               Amending drug and alcohol
42-2011            3-29-2011   policy of the policies and   Not included
                               procedures, compensation
                               plan and classification plan
                               Prohibiting parking on
43-2011            3-29-2011   streets; repealing Ords. 11- Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               1962 and 19-1962
                               Providing for the
44-2011            4-7-2011    advertisement and sale of a  TSO X
                               franchise
45-2011            4-19-2011   Approving change order with  TSO IV
                               Corder Builders
                               Adopting the Housing Choice
46-2011            4-19-2011   Voucher Program 2011         155.04
                               Administrative and Annual
                               Plan
47-2011            5-5-2011    Approving a contract for     TSO VII
                               pump station improvements
                               Approving a purchase
48-2011            5-5-2011    agreement for the Fire       TSO VII
                               Department
49-2011            5-5-2011    Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               sewer improvements
                               Authorizing an agreement
50-2011            5-5-2011    regarding the leasing of     TSO VII
                               parking spaces
                               Authorizing a 2011 action
51-2011            5-5-2011    plan for a community         TSO XI
                               development block grant
                               Executing a task order to
52-2011            5-19-2011   update the 2008 water rate   TSO IV
                               study
                               Executing a task order to
53-2011            5-19-2011   update the 2009 sewer rate   TSO IV
                               study
                               Executing a task order
54-2011            5-19-2011   regarding the combined sewer TSO IV
                               overflow long term control
                               plan
55-2011            5-19-2011   Authorizing a full           TSO IV
                               maintenance agreement
                               Authorizing a contract
56-2011            6-2-2011    regarding the Williams Creek TSO VII
                               Booster Station
                               Authorizing change order no.
57-2011            6-2-2011    1 for contract regarding the TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope Adaptable/
                               Handicap Accessible Project
                               Authorizing a modification
58-2011            6-2-2011    agreement for the homeless   TSO IV
                               grant program
                               Authorizing a contract with
59-2011            6-2-2011    Community Action Referral    TSO VII
                               Services (CARES)
60-2011            6-2-2011    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope
                               Authorizing a Statewide
61-2011            6-2-2011    Emergency Management Mutual  TSO XI
                               Aid Agreement
                               Adopting fats, oils and      53.01;
62-2011            6-2-2011    grease policy                53.12;
                                                            53.99
63-2011            6-2-2011    Amending permissible uses of TSO XVII
                               the sewer system; repealed
                               Establishing the position
64-2011            6-2-2011    and duties of the Electrical TSO XVII
                               Inspector; repealed
65-2011            6-16-2011   Adopting the 2011-2012       Not included
                               budget
66-2011            6-16-2011   Adopting the medical care    TSO VII
                               plan
                               Approving a renewal with
67-2011            6-16-2011   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc. for
                               health insurance coverage
68-2011            6-16-2011   Amending the Flood Damage    153.05 -
                               Prevention Plan              153.10
69-2011            6-16-2011   Amending Ord. 122-2004       Not included
70-2011            6-16-2011   Fixing the ad valorem taxes  TSO XVIII
                               for 2011
71-2011            6-16-2011   Fixing the tax levy for 2011 TSO XVIII
72-2011            6-16-2011   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance for 2011
                               Authorizing a facility
73-2011            6-16-2011   encroachment agreement for   TSO IV
                               the Roberts Drive and Sixth
                               Street Sewer Project
74-2011            6-16-2011   Fixing the regulatory        TSO XVIII
                               license fee for 2011-2012
                               Authorizing change order no.
75-2011            7-21-2011   2 between city and Geoff     TSO IV
                               Riffe Construction
                               Contract between the city
76-2011            7-21-2011   and Blacktop Industries and  TSO VII
                               Equipment Company
77-2011            7-21-2011   Contract with Newtech        TSO VII
                               Systems, Inc.
78-2011            7-21-2011   Agreement with the Kentucky  TSO VII
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Amending compensation and
79-2011            7-21-2011   classification plan          Not included
                               regarding job descriptions
80-2011            7-21-2011   Adopting the S-41 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing submission of a
                               grant application to the     TSO XI;
81-2011            7-21-2011   Federal Transit              TSO XVII
                               Administration and repealing
                               Ord. 67-2010
                               Amending water rates, tap
82-2011            7-21-2011   fees, service charges and    TSO XVII
                               delinquency provisions;
                               repealed
                               Amending sewer tap fees,
83-2011            7-21-2011   connection charges, security TSO XVII
                               deposit, and surcharge;
                               repealed
                               Granting a franchise to      TSO X;
84-2011            7-21-2011   Kentucky Power Company and   TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 69-2002
                               Authorizing change order no.
85-2011            8-4-2011    3 between city and Clay      TSO IV
                               Pipeline, Inc.
                               Adopting the 2011 amended
                               community development block
86-2011            8-4-2011    grant action plan for the    TSO IV
                               Department of Economic
                               Development
                               Contract with Community
87-2011            8-4-2011    Assistance and Referral      TSO VII
                               Service, Inc.
88-2011            8-4-2011    Contract with Safe Harbor of TSO VII
                               Northeast Kentucky, Inc.
89-2011            8-4-2011    Contract with the Salvation  TSO VII
                               Army
90-2011            8-4-2011    Contract with Shelter of     TSO VII
                               Hope, Inc.
                               Amending the policies and
91-2011            8-4-2011    procedures, compensation     TSO XVII
                               plan and classification plan
                               and repealing Ord. 77-2003
92-2011            8-4-2011    Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
93-2011            8-4-2011    Contract with CTB, Inc.      TSO VII
                               Authorizing a contract
94-2011            8-18-2011   between the city and Mark    TSO IV
                               and Kelly Hanni regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing change order no.
95-2011            8-18-2011   2 between the city and       TSO IV
                               Fields Excavating, Inc.
96-2011            8-18-2011   Trust participation          TSO VII
                               agreement
97-2011            8-18-2011   Task order #12 between city  TSO VII
                               and Strand Associates, Inc.
98-2011            8-18-2011   Amending stop sign schedule  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
99-2011            9-1-2011    Modification #1 to home      TSO XI
                               funding agreement
100-2011           9-1-2011    Modification #1 to home      TSO XI
                               funding agreement
                               Contract with Safe Harbor of
101-2011           9-1-2011    Northeast Kentucky and AU    TSO VII
                               Construction, LLC
                               Authorizing an agreement
102-2011           9-1-2011    between the city and Ashland TSO V
                               city police members
                               Submitting consolidated
103-2011           9-15-2011   annual performance           Not included
                               evaluation and review for
                               program year 2010
                               Changing the zoning
104-2011           9-15-2011   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
                               Changing the zoning
105-2011           9-15-2011   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
106-2011           9-15-2011   Designating a handicapped    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
                               Prohibited parking on
107-2011           9-15-2011   designation sections of Holt Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Street
                               Repealing Ords. 2-1995 and   72.999;
108-2011           9-15-2011   79-2000 regarding commercial TSO XVII
                               loading zones
109-2011           9-15-2011   Adopting the S-42 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing change order no.
110-2011           9-15-2011   1 between city and C.J.      TSO VII
                               Hughes Construction Co.,
                               Inc.
111-2011           9-15-2011   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               BLK Construction, LLC
112-2011           9-15-2011   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               River Cities Disposal, LLC
113-2011           10-6-2011   Encroachment agreement with  TSO IX
                               FiberNet/nTelos
                               Authorizing amended contract
114-2011           10-6-2011   with Community Assistance    TSO VII
                               and Referral Services
                               (CARES)
                               Authorizing amended contract
115-2011           10-6-2011   with Salvation Army of       TSO VII
                               Ashland
                               Changing the zoning
116-2011           10-6-2011   classification for certain   TSO XVI
                               property
117-2011           10-20-2011  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               BLK Construction, LLC
                               Utility fines and penalties
118-2011           10-20-2011  for willful or malicious     TSO XVII
                               acts; repealed
119-2011           11-3-2011   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.
120-2011           11-3-2011   Amending general statutory   10.02
                               definitions
121-2011           11-3-2011   Adopting the S-43 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing change order no.
122-2011           11-17-2011  1 between city and Tri-State TSO VII
                               Lawn Care, Inc.
                               Authorizing change order no.
123-2011           11-17-2011  4 between city and Clay      TSO VII
                               Pipeline, Inc.
124-2011           11-17-2011  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Rumpke
125-2011           11-17-2011  Authorizing tower lease      TSO XIII
                               agreement with Commonwealth
                               Authorizing change order no.
126-2011           11-17-2011  3 between city and Fields    TSO VII
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing change order no.
127-2011           11-17-2011  1 between city and C.J.      TSO VII
                               Hughes Construction Co.
128-2011           11-17-2011  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Cargill Deicing Technology
                               Adopting amendment 13 to
                               city s medical care plan and
                               amendment 10 to Fire
129-2011           11-17-2011  Department union plan, and   TSO VII
                               amending health
                               reimbursement plan and
                               flexible benefit plan
                               Adopting the city s amended
                               consolidated annual
1-2012             1-5-2012    performance evaluation       Not included
                               report (CAPER) for program
                               year 2010
                               Changing the name of 18th
2-2012             1-19-2012   Street to Henry Clay         TSO XV
                               Boulevard
                               Executing a task order #13
3-2012             1-19-2012   between the city and Strand  TSO IV
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 between
                               the city and AU
4-2012             1-19-2012   Construction, LLC for a      TSO IV
                               contract regarding the safe
                               harbor kitchen and dining
                               room renovation
                               Amending policies and
5-2012             1-19-2012   procedures of the            Not included
                               compensation plan and
                               classification plan
                               Repealing Ords. 17-1948 and
6-2012             1-19-2012   43-1953 regarding the Civil  TSO XVII
                               Service Commission
7-2012             1-19-2012   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
8-2012             1-19-2012   Amending Ord. 64-2011;       TSO XVII
                               repealed
                               Amending Appendix L, travel
9-2012             1-19-2012   regulations, of the policies TSO VII
                               and procedures, compensation
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing change order no.
10-2012            2-2-2012    2 between city and C.J.      TSO VII
                               Hughes Construction Co.,
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing deed for
11-2012            2-2-2012    purchase of Roberts Drive    TSO XIII
                               property
12-2012            2-16-2012   Amending disabled parking    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               schedule
                               Authorizing easement with
13-2012            2-16-2012   Kentucky Power Co. for       TSO IX
                               underground electric service
                               Authorizing contract with
14-2012            2-16-2012   Ashland Hercules Water       TSO VII
                               Technologies, Hercules, Inc.
15-2012            2-16-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
16-2012            2-16-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc.
17-2012            2-16-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               K.A. Steel Chemicals, Inc.
18-2012            2-16-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
19-2012            2-16-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               USALCO, LLC.
20-2012            2-16-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
                               Repealing existing and       157.003;
21-2012            2-16-2012   adopting new sign            158.01;
                               regulations                  158.09;
                                                            158.99
22-2012            2-16-2012   Rental/use form approved for TSO XVII
                               city facilities; repealed
                               Adopting amendments to
23-2012            3-1-2012    medical care and Fire        TSO VII
                               Department union plans
                               Executing and agreement
24-2012            4-5-2012    between the city and Lars,   TSO IX
                               Inc.
25-2012            4-5-2012    Adopting the S-44 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending Section 8
26-2012            4-19-2012   certificate and housing      155.04
                               voucher programs
                               Authorizing and approving
27-2012            4-19-2012   change order no. 5 between   TSO IV
                               the city and Clay Pipeline,
                               Inc.
28-2012            5-3-2012    Executing a contract with    TSO VII
                               Pinkerton Drilling, Inc.
29-2012            5-3-2012    Authorizing the 2012 action  TSO IV
                               plan
30-2012            5-3-2012    Amending water rates and     TSO XVII
                               charges; repealed
31-2012            5-3-2012    Adopting the job description Not included
                               for GIS Technician
32-2012            5-3-2012    Amending sick leave          Not included
                               Agreement between city and
33-2012            5-17-2012   Vida Loca Salon and Spa,     TSO IV
                               Inc.
34-2012            5-17-2012   Authorizing change order no. TSO IV
                               3
35-2012            5-17-2012   Authorizing change order no. TSO IV
                               1
36-2012            5-17-2012   Adopting the job description Not included
                               for Fire Marshal
                               Authorizing the acceptance
37-2012            6-7-2012    of a segment of River Hill   TSO I
                               Drive (CS 2615) and its
                               right-of-way
                               Executing the second
38-2012            6-7-2012    amendment to a land lease    TSO XIII
                               agreement
39-2012            6-7-2012    Amending stop signs          Ch. 74, Sch. IX
40-2012            6-7-2012    Adopting false alarm policy  95.45;
                                                            95.49
41-2012            6-21-2012   Amending Ordinance 17-2012   TSO VII
42-2012            6-21-2012   Executing a contract with    TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
44-2012            6-21-2012   Submitting the FY 2013 grant TSO XVII
                               application
45-2012            6-21-2012   Adopting the S-45 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
46-2012            6-21-2012   Adopting the medical care    Not included
                               plan
                               Approving a renewal with
47-2012            6-21-2012   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc.
48-2012            6-21-2012   Amending sick leave          Not included
49-2012            6-21-2012   Amending stop signs          Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Repealing Ord. 90-1995
50-2012            6-21-2012   removing the handicap        TSO XVII
                               parking space at 2276
                               Winchester Avenue
51-2012            6-21-2012   Amending the regulatory      TSO XVII
                               license fee
52-2012            6-21-2012   Fixing the tax levy for 2012 TSO XVIII
53-2012            6-21-2012   Approving and adopting the   Not included
                               2012-2013 budget
                               Adjusting the compensation
54-2012            6-21-2012   for FY 2012-2013 for the     Not included
                               Mayor and City Commissioners
                               Executing agreement for the
55-2012            6-27-2012   installation of a water line TSO VII
                               extension outside the city
                               limits on Rolling Mills Lane
56-2012            6-27-2012   Fixing the ad valorem taxes  TSO XVIII
                               for 2012
                               Amending rules and
57-2012            6-27-2012   regulations for the use of   TSO XVII
                               Central Park
                               Amending policies and
58-2012            8-2-2012    procedures, compensation     TSO VII
                               plan and classification plan
59-2012            8-2-2012    Authoring execution of trust TSO VII
                               participation agreements
                               Authorizing execution of
60-2012            8-2-2012    engineering services         TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Authoring execution of task
61-2012            8-2-2012    order # 1 with Summit        TSO VII
                               Engineering, Inc.
                                                            50.001;
                                                            50.006;
                                                            50.020;
                                                            50.030;
                                                            50.045 
                                                            50.048;
                                                            50.060;
                                                            50.067;
                                                            50.080;
62-2012            8-16-2012   Repealing and replacing      50.087;
                               sewer provisions             50.115;
                                                            50.131;
                                                            50.145;
                                                            50.161;
                                                            50.175;
                                                            50.177;
                                                            50.205;
                                                            50.212;
                                                            50.225; 
                                                            50.228
                               Authorizing submission of
                               2013 grant application to
63-2012            8-16-2012   Federal Transit              TSO XI
                               Administration for Ashland
                               Bus System
64-2012            9-6-2012    Participation in Boyd County TSO VII
                               solid waste management area
65-2012            8-16-2012   Adopting the S-46 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Executing encroachment
66-2012            9-20-2012   agreement with F. Squared    TSO IV
                               Investments, LLC for
                               landscaping and parking
67-2012            9-20-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
68-2012            9-20-2012   Authorizing submission of    TSO VII
                               CAPER for 2011
69-2012            10-4-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               River Cities Disposal, LLC
                               Accepting $40,000 award from
                               Kentucky Housing Corporation
70-2012            10-4-2012   from 2011 emergency          TSO VII
                               solutions grant program,
                               phase II funding
                               Authorizing contract with
71-2012            10-4-2012   Community Assistance         TSO VII
                               Referral Service, Inc.
72-2012            10-4-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Amending policies and
73-2012            10-4-2012   procedures, compensation     TSO VII
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing encroachment
74-2012            10-18-2012  agreement with Members       TSO IV
                               Choice Credit Union
                               Authorizing encroachment
75-2012            10-18-2012  agreement with Housing       TSO IV
                               Authority of Ashland
76-2012            10-18-2012  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
77-2012            10-18-2012  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               BLK Construction, LLC
78-2012            10-18-2012  Authorizing closure of a     TSO XIV
                               portion of an alley
                               Amending agreement between
79-2012            10-18-2012  GCG Ashland, RLG Ashland and TSO VII
                               the city
                               Authorizing execution of
80-2012            11-1-2012   task order #14 in contract   TSO VII
                               with Strand Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
81-2012            11-1-2012   Kentucky Department of       TSO VII
                               Highways
82-2012            11-15-2012  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Morton Salt, Inc.
83-2012            11-15-2012  Authorizing encroachment     TSO IV
                               agreement with Lumos Network
                               Repealing Ords. 113-1993,
84-2012            11-15-2012  131-2006, and 45-2007,       TSO XVII
                               regarding promotions within
                               the Fire Department
85-2012            12-6-2012   Amending city s flexible     TSO VII
                               benefit plan
86-2012            12-6-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.
87-2012            12-6-2012   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc.
                               Amending policies and
01-2013            1-3-2013    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing encroachment
2-2013             1-3-2013    agreement with UK King s     TSO IV
                               Daughters
                               Authorizing encroachment
3-2013             1-3-2013    agreement with JR Realty,    TSO IV
                               Inc.
4-2013             1-3-2013    Authorizing encroachment     TSO IV
                               agreement with Betty Hall
5-2013             1-3-2013    Authorizing task order # 15  TSO IV
                               with Strand Associates, Inc.
6-2013             1-3-2013    Adopting the S-47 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending policies and
7-2013             1-3-2013    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
8-2013             1-17-2013   Authorizing submission of    TSO VII
                               2011 CAPER
                               Authorizing professional
9-2013             1-17-2013   services agreement with      TSO VII
                               Taylor Siefker Williams
                               Design Group LLC
                               Authorizing amendment no. 1
10-2013            1-17-2013   to task order 2011-02 with   TSO VII
                               HDR Engineering, Inc.
                               Adopting revised job
11-2013            1-17-2013   descriptions for various     Not included
                               positions
                               Amending policies and
12-2013            1-17-2013   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing quitclaim deed
13-2013            2-7-2013    for south side of U.S. 23 on TSO XIII
                               the hillside
                               Authorizing quitclaim deed
14-2013            2-7-2013    for River Hill Drive roadbed TSO XIII
                               at U.S. 23
                               Authorizing facility
15-2013            2-7-2013    encroachment agreement with  TSO IV
                               CSX Transportation
                               Authorizing $4,945,000 water
16-2013            2-7-2013    and sewer system revenue     TSO III
                               refunding bonds, series 2013
                               Authorizing submission of
17-2013            2-7-2013    highway safety grant         TSO IV
                               application
18-2013            2-7-2013    Amending small purchase      TSO XVII
                               procedures
                               Amending policies and
19-2013            2-7-2013    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing agreed order
20-2013            2-21-2013   with Kentucky Energy and     TSO VII
                               Environment Cabinet,
                               Division of Enforcement
21-2013            2-21-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
22-2013            2-21-2013   Authorizing contract with C. TSO VII
                               I. Thornburg Co., Inc.
23-2013            2-21-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
24-2013            2-21-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Univar USA, Inc.
25-2013            2-21-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               USALCO, LLC
26-2013            2-21-2013   Amending stop sign schedule  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
27-2013            2-21-2013   Adopting the S-48 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending hours for sale and
28-2013            3-7-2013    delivery of alcoholic        TSO XVII
                               beverages
29-2013            3-7-2013    Amending equal housing       91.01;
                               opportunity provisions       91.04
30-2013            3-21-2013   Adopting drug and alcohol    31.085
                               policy
31-2013            3-7-2013    Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing memorandum of
32-2013            3-7-2013    agreement with firefighters  TSO V
                               Local 706 regarding
                               promotion procedures
33-2013            3-21-2013   Authorizing deed for         TSO XIII
                               property on 39th Street
34-2013            3-21-2013   Authorizing deed for         TSO XIII
                               property on 39th Street
                               Authorizing encroachment
35-2013            3-21-2013   agreement with Ashland       TSO IV
                               Credit Union
                               Amending policies and
36-2013            3-21-2013   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending policies and
37-2013            3-21-2013   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
38-2013            3-21-2013   Adopting 2012 CDBG action    TSO IV
                               plan
39-2013            4-18-2013   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Doll Layman, LTD
40-2013            4-18-2013   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
41-2013            4-18-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Womack Excavating, LLC
                               Authorizing a public
42-2013            4-18-2013   transportation grant         TSO XI
                               agreement with the Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Adopting the housing choice
43-2013            4-18-2013   voucher program 2013         155.04
                               administrative and annual
                               plan
44-2013            5-2-2013    Authorizing submission of    TSO IV
                               CDBG 2013 action plan
45-2013            5-16-2013   Amending Ord. 101-1986       157.003
                               definitions; paving
46-2013            6-6-2013    Amending sewer regulations   50.004;
                               regarding hauled wastewater  50.048
47-2013            6-6-2013    Amending water fees and      TSO XVII
                               charges; repealed
48-2013            6-6-2013    Amending sewer fees and      TSO XVII
                               charges; repealed
                               Regulating occupancy of      151.40;
49-2013            6-6-2013    inhabitable property where   151.44;
                               methamphetamine has been     151.99
                               manufactured.
50-2013            6-6-2013    Adopting the S-49 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
51-2013            6-6-2013    Authorizing task order #2    TSO VII
                               with Summit Engineering
                               Amending the medical care
52-2013            6-6-2013    plan as adopted by Ord. 103- TSO VII
                               2004
                               Amending the medical care
53-2013            6-6-2013    plan as adopted by Ord. 46-  Not included
                               2012
                               Authorizing a parking
54-2013            6-6-2013    agreement with the Ashland   TSO VII
                               Area Convention and Visitors
                               Bureau
                               Fixing days, time and place
55-2013            6-6-2013    for regular meetings of      30.06
                               Board of Commissioners
                               Authorizing change order #4
56-2013            6-12-2013   with C.J. Hughes             TSO VII
                               Construction Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing submission of
                               2014 grant application to
57-2013            6-12-2013   the Federal Transit          TSO XI
                               Administration for the bus
                               system
                               Authorizing submission of
                               Edward Byrne Memorial
58-2013            6-12-2013   Justice Assistance Grant     TSO XI
                               application to U.S.
                               Department of Justice
59-2013            6-12-2013   Amending the 2012-2013       Not included
                               budget ordinance
                               Approving renewal with
60-2013            6-12-2013   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc.
61-2013            6-12-2013   Adopting the 2013-2014       Not included
                               budget
62-2013            6-12-2013   Amending the annual          TSO XVII
                               occupational license fee
                               Amending alcoholic
63-2013            6-12-2013   beverages; regulatory        TSO XVII
                               license fee
                               Fixing the alcoholic
64-2013            6-12-2013   beverages regulatory license TSO XVIII
                               fee
65-2013            6-12-2013   Fixing bank deposits         TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax for 2013
66-2013            6-27-2013   Authorizing a contract with  TSO IV
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
67-2013            6-27-2013   Authorizing a contract with  TSO IV
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing change orders #1
68-2013            6-27-2013   and 2 with Womack            TSO IV
                               Excavating, LLC
69-2013            6-27-2013   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               for 2013
                               Amending policies and
70-2013            6-27-2013   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification
                               plan; authorized positions
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
71-2013            6-27-2013   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; drug-free workplace
                               policy and drug and alcohol
                               testing policy
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
72-2013            6-27-2013   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
                               Establishing Fire Department
                               hiring procedures and
73-2013            6-27-2013   qualifications; repealing    TSO XVII
                               Ords. 23-2009 and 103-2010;
                               repealed
74-2013            6-27-2013   Agreement with Lumos Network TSO IV
                               Authorizing contract with
75-2013            8-8-2013    Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.;    TSO XVII
                               repealed
76-2013            8-8-2013    Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.
77-2013            8-8-2013    Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Big Sandy Water District
                               Authorizing general
                               insurance and workers
78-2013            8-8-2013    compensation trust           TSO VII
                               participation agreements
                               with Kentucky League of
                               Cities
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
79-2013            8-8-2013    plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
80-2013            8-22-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.
81-2013            8-22-2013   Authorizing task order #16   TSO VII
                               with Strand Associates, Inc.
82-2013            8-22-2013   Amending alley parking       72.999;
                               schedule                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
83-2013            8-22-2013   Amending parking duration    72.999;
                               limitation schedule          Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               Amending parking duration    72.999;
84-2013            8-22-2013   limitation schedule;         Ch. 75, Sch. VIII;
                               repealing Ords. 40-1986 and  TSO XVII
                               56-1986
85-2013            8-22-2013   Amending disabled parking    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               spaces schedule
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
86-2013            9-12-2013   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
87-2013            9-26-2013   Authorizing change order #6  TSO IV
                               with Clay Pipeline, Inc.
88-2013            9-26-2013   Authorizing contract with    TSO IV
                               Gibco Home Builders, Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
89-2013            9-26-2013   Ashland Child Development    TSO IV
                               Center, Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
90-2013            9-26-2013   Ashland Community Kitchen,   TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
91-2013            9-26-2013   Boyd County Council on       TSO IV
                               Aging, Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
92-2013            9-26-2013   Community Assistance         TSO IV
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               (CARE)
                               Authorizing agreement with
93-2013            9-26-2013   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO IV
                               Kentucky, Inc.
94-2013            9-26-2013   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Salvation Army of Ashland
95-2013            9-26-2013   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
96-2013            9-26-2013   Amending park rules and      TSO XVII
                               regulations
                               Amending rules and
97-2013            9-26-2013   regulations for Port of      TSO XVII
                               Ashland, Riverfront Park
98-2013            9-26-2013   Authorizing submission of    TSO VII
                               2012 CAPER
99-2013            9-26-2013   Amending stop intersections  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               schedule
                               Authorizing change order #1
100-2013           9-26-2013   with Mike Enyart & Sons,     TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
101-2013           10-2-2013   Southern Ohio Trenching &    TSO IV
                               Excavating
102-2013           10-2-2013   Amending safety policies     Not included
103-2013           10-24-2013  Adopting comprehensive plan; TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 111-2004
104-2013           10-24-2013  Amending resident permit     Not included
                               parking schedule
105-2013           10-24-2013  Amending parking prohibition Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedule
                               Authorizing change order no.
106-2013           10-24-2013  2 for contract with Mike     TSO VII
                               Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
107-2013           10-31-2013  Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 14-2014
108-2013           10-31-2013  Amending contract with Mike  TSO VII
                               Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
109-2013           10-31-2013  Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.;    TSO VII
                               repealing Ord. 75-2013
                               Amending alcoholic beverage
                               licensing and operation
110-2013           10-31-2013  regulations; repealing Ords. TSO XVII
                               143-2003, 123-2004, 76-2007,
                               51-2012, 28-2013 and 63-
                               2013; repealed
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
111-2013           10-31-2013  plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
112-2013           10-31-2013  Adopting the S-50 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing contract with
113-2013           10-31-2013  Tri-State Construction &     TSO VII
                               Enterprise
114-2013           12-12-2013  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Cargill Incorporated
115-2013           12-12-2013  Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc.
                               Adopting 2013 Kentucky
116-2013           11-14-2013  Building and Residential     151.01;
                               Codes by reference;          TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 41-2008
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
117-2013           12-12-2013  plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
                               Amending the medical care
118-2013           12-12-2013  plan as adopted by Ord. 46-  Not included
                               2012
                               Authorizing contract with
1-2014             1-9-2014    River Cities Disposal, Inc.  TSO VII
                               for garbage disposal
                               Creating economic            37.095;
2-2014             12-12-2013  development incentives       37.102
                               program
                               Amending policies and
3-2014             1-9-2014    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification
                               plan; longevity pay
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
4-2014             1-9-2014    plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
                               Authorizing contract with
5-2014             1-9-2014    Ashland Hospital Corp. d/b/  TSO VII
                               a UK King s Daughters
6-2014             1-9-2014    Amending the 2013-2014       Not included
                               budget ordinance
                               Authorizing task order 2011-
7-2014             1-23-2014   05 with HDR Engineering re:  TSO VII
                               29th Street
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
8-2014             1-23-2014   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; drug and alcohol
                               testing policy
9-2014             2-3-2014    Water usage criteria during  Not included
                               state of emergency
10-2014            2-13-2014   Authorizing task order # 17  TSO VII
                               with Strand Associates
11-2014            2-13-2014   Adopting the S-51 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending contract with
12-2014            2-13-2014   Community Assistance         TSO VII
                               Referral Service, Inc.
13-2014            2-13-2014   Amending contract with       TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Terminating contract with
14-2014            2-13-2014   Tri-State Lawn Care, Inc.;   TSO VII
                               repealing Ord. 17-2013
15-2014            2-13-2014   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing deed conveying
                               property to Board of
16-2014            2-27-2014   Education and Independent    TSO XIII
                               School District Finance
                               Corp.
                               Authorizing deed of
17-2014            3-13-2014   conveyance accepting Lots 6A TSO XVII
                               and 6B of Melody Mountain
                               Subdivision; repealed
18-2014            2-27-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
19-2014            2-27-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO V
                               Police Department
                               Authorizing submission of
20-2014            2-27-2014   highway safety grant         TSO XI
                               application
                               Establishing electrical      151.55;
21-2014            3-13-2014   standards; repealing Ords.   151.63;
                               64-2011 and 8-2012           151.99
22-2014            3-27-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
23-2014            3-27-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               C.I. Thornburg, Inc.
24-2014            3-27-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Gulbrandsen Technologies
25-2014            3-27-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
26-2014            3-27-2014   Authorizing contract with    TSO XVII
                               Univar USA, Inc; repealed
27-2014            3-27-2014   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               USALCO, LLC
                               Authorizing public
28-2014            3-27-2014   transportation agreement     TSO XI
                               with Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
29-2014            3-27-2014   Approving lease for project  TSO XIII
                               financing
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
30-2014            3-24-2014   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               description
31-2014            3-27-2014   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
32-2014            4-10-2014   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Cintas Corp.
33-2014            4-10-2014   Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
                               Authorizing deed of
                               conveyance with RLG Ashland
34-2014            4-24-2014   LLC and GCG Ashland LLC      TSO I
                               accepting Lots 6A and 6B of
                               Melody Mountain Subdivision;
                               repealing Ord. 17-2014
                               Authorizing mutual aid
35-2014            4-24-2014   agreement with Catlettsburg  TSO XI
                               Refining LLC
                               Adopting housing choice
36-2014            4-24-2014   voucher program 2014         155.04
                               administrative and annual
                               plan
37-2014            4-24-2014   Adopting the S-52 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Adopting levee certification
38-2014            4-24-2014   and approving submission to  TSO VII
                               FEMA
                               Authorizing contract with
39-2014            5-8-2014    Marshall Steen for           TSO IV
                               encroachment for projecting
                               sign installation
40-2014            5-8-2014    Authorizing contract with C  TSO VII
                               & D Painting Services, Inc.
41-2014            5-8-2014    Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               C.I. Thornburg Co., Inc.
42-2014            5-8-2014    Authorizing contract with    TSO VII
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing contract with
43-2014            5-8-2014    Univar USA, Inc.; repealing  TSO VII
                               Ord. 26-2014
                               Authorizing submission to
44-2014            5-8-2014    HUD of 2014 action plan for  TSO XI
                               a community development
                               block grant
                               Rental/use form approved for
45-2014            5-8-2014    city park facilities;        TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 22-2012
46-2014            5-22-2014   Authorizing change order #1  TSO IV
                               with Doll Layman, Ltd.
                               Authorizing submission of
47-2014            5-22-2014   Edward Byrne Memorial        TSO XI
                               Justice Assistance Grant
                               application to the U.S. DOJ
                               Authorizing agency service
48-2014            5-22-2014   agreement with APPRISS,      TSO VII
                               Inc., for supplying police
                               reports
                               Amending hiring practices
49-2014            6-4-2014    for police officers;         TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 121-2010
                               Approving renewal with
50-2014            6-12-2014   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc.
                               (MEDBEN)
                               Authorizing agreement with
51-2014            6-12-2014   Peoples Insurance Agency of  TSO VII
                               Ohio, LLC
52-2014            6-26-2014   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing general
                               insurance and workers
53-2014            6-26-2014   compensation trust           TSO XI
                               participation agreements
                               with Kentucky League of
                               Cities
54-2014            6-26-2014   Adopting the 2014-2015       Not included
                               budget
55-2014            6-26-2014   Fixing bank deposits         TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax for 2014
                               Fixing the alcoholic
56-2014            6-26-2014   beverages regulatory license TSO XVIII
                               fee
                               Amending policies and
57-2014            6-26-2014   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification
                               plan; salary schedule
                               Authorizing memo of
                               understanding between ATF
58-2014            6-30-2014   and the Police Department    TSO XI
                               for cooperation in violent
                               crime investigations
                               Authorizing agreement with
59-2014            6-30-2014   Ashland Community Kitchen,   TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
60-2014            6-30-2014   the Ashland Child            TSO IV
                               Development Center, Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
61-2014            6-30-2014   the Boyd County Council on   TSO IV
                               Aging, Inc., Ashland Senior
                               Center
                               Authorizing agreement with
62-2014            6-30-2014   Community Assistance         TSO IV
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               (CARES)
                               Authorizing agreement with
63-2014            6-30-2014   Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO IV
                               Kentucky, Inc.
                               Authorizing agreement with
64-2014            6-30-2014   the Salvation Army of        TSO IV
                               Ashland
65-2014            6-30-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
66-2014            6-30-2014   Authorizing agreement with   TSO IV
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
67-2014            6-30-2014   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               for 2014
                               Adjusting compensation for
68-2014            6-30-2014   FY 2014-2015 for the Mayor   Not included
                               and City Commissioners
69-2014            6-30-2014   Amending the 2013-2014       Not included
                               budget ordinance
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
70-2014            6-30-2014   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; vacation donation
                               program and travel
                               regulations.
71-2024            6-30-2014   Adopting the S-53 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
72-2014            6-30-2014   Amending disabled parking    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               spaces schedule
73-2014            7-24-2014   Adopting job descriptions    Not included
                               Approving emergency          TSO XI;
74-2014            8-14-2014   operations plan; repealing   TSO XVII
                               Ord. 144-2003
                               Authorizing $3,620,000 water
75-2014            8-14-2014   and sewer system revenue     TSO III
                               refunding bonds, series 2014
                               Authorizing contract with
76-2014            8-14-2014   C.J. Hughes Construction     TSO VII
                               Co., Inc.
77-2014            8-14-2014   Amending loading/unloading   Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                               zones
78-2014            8-14-2014   Amending stop sign ordinance Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Authorizing an agreement
79-2014            8-28-2014   with Community Trust Bank,   TSO IV
                               Inc.
80-2014            8-28-2014   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Doll Layman, Ltd.
81-2014            8-28-2014   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
82-2014            8-28-2014   Authorizing a task order     TSO IV
                               with HDR Engineering, Inc.
83-2014            9-11-2014   Adopting amendments for the  Not included
                               Kentucky medical care plan
84-2014            9-25-2014   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Prichard Lawncare, Inc.
                               Authorizing submittal of
85-2014            9-25-2014   consolidated annual          TSO VII
                               performance and evaluation
                               report
                               Adopting 2014 community
86-2014            9-25-2014   development block grant      TSO XI
                               action plan
87-2014            9-25-2014   Designating an unnamed alley TSO XV
                               Providing for rules and      96.14;
88-2014            10-9-2014   regulations for nature       96.99
                               trails
89-2014            10-9-2014   Adopting Title VI program    TSO XVII
                               for the Ashland Bus System
90-2014            10-23-2014  Adopting the S-54 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Authorizing change order #1
92-2014            12-11-2014  with C. J. Hughes            TSO VII
                               Construction Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing professional
93-2014            12-11-2014  services agreement with E.L. TSO VII
                               Robinson Engineering Company
                               Authorizing contract with
94-2014            12-11-2014  Green Valley Landfill for    TSO VII
                               sludge removal
                               Authorizing contract with R
95-2014            12-11-2014  & C Excavating for           TSO VII
                               replacement water meters
96-2014            12-11-2014  Amending agreement with      TSO IV
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing public
97-2014            12-11-2014  transportation agreement     TSO XI
                               with Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
98-2014            12-11-2014  Amending parking prohibition Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedule
                               Authorizing a contract with
1-2015             12-11-2014  King s Daughters and Sons    TSO VII
                               Home and Tri-State
                               Construction and Enterprise
2-2015             12-11-2014  Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
3-2015             12-11-2014  Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with HDR Engineering, Inc.
4-2015             12-11-2014  Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
5-2015             1-8-2015    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Badger Meter, Inc.
6-2015             1-8-2015    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               River Cities Disposal, LLC
                               Authorizing an agreement
7-2015             1-8-2015    with the Commonwealth of     TSO XI
                               Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
8-2015             1-8-2015    Authorizing sewer overflow   TSO IV
                               report
                               Amending hiring practices
9-2015             1-8-2015    for police officers;         TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 49-2014
10-2015            1-8-2015    Adopting the S-55 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending the polices and
11-2015            1-8-2015    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing agreement with
12-2015            1-22-2015   City National Bank of West   TSO IV
                               Virginia
                               Authorizing the issuance of
13-2015            1-22-2015   general obligation refunding TSO III
                               bonds
                               Authorizing a franchise
14-2015            1-22-2015   agreement to Lumos Networks, TSO X
                               LLC
                               Authorizing change order no.
15-2015            1-22-2015   1 with Tri-State             TSO VII
                               Construction
                               Authorizing an agreement
16-2015            1-22-2015   with the city police         TSO V
                               members, Fraternal Order of
                               Police, Ashland Lodge #3
17-2015            2-12-2015   Amending time for Board of   30.06
                               Commissioners meetings
18-2015            2-12-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Kentucky Power Company
                               Authorizing change order no.
19-2015            2-12-2015   2 with Tri-State             TSO VII
                               Construction
                               Accepting for ownership,
20-2015            2-12-2015   operation and maintenance of TSO I
                               sanitary sewer mail lines
                               and water main lines
21-2015            2-26-2015   Authorizing a task order     TSO VII
                               with Strand Associates, Inc.
22-2015            2-26-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Revize LLC
23-2015            3-12-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Brenntag Mid-South, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
24-2015            3-12-2015   Chemtrade Chemicals, U.S.,   TSO VII
                               LLC
25-2015            3-12-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               C.I. Thornburg, Co., Inc.
26-2015            3-12-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Polydyne, Inc.
27-2015            3-12-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Univar USA, Inc.
28-2015            3-12-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Usalco, LLC
29-2015            3-26-2015   Authorizing an action to     TSO XIV
                               close a walkway
                               Amending pollutant discharge 50.028;
30-2015            3-26-2015   limits and compliance        50.118
                               reports
                               Adopting the housing choice
31-2015            4-9-2015    voucher program 2015         155.04
                               administrative and annual
                               plan
                               Amending rule and
                               regulations of the Police
32-2015            3-26-2015   Department; repealing Ords.  TSO XVII
                               102-009, 74-2009, 147-2009;
                               repealed by Ord. 116, 2024
33-2015            3-26-2015   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Amending regulations         92.01;
                               concerning the storage and   92.03;
34-2015            3-26-2015   sale of consumer fireworks;  92.04;
                               repealing Ord. 95-1986       92.99;
                                                            TSO XVII
                               Accepting a proposal of E.L.
35-2015            4-9-2015    Robinson Engineering to      TSO VII
                               provide services to the city
                               Authorizing an agreement
36-2015            4-9-2015    with the Kentucky            TSO IV
                               Transportation Cabinet,
                               Department of Highways
37-2015            4-9-2015    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               R&C Excavating, LLC
                               Amending the polices and
38-2015            4-9-2015    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Accepting the proposal for
39-2015            5-14-2015   the safe routes to schools   TSO VII
                               project
40-2015            5-14-2015   Executing a lease agreement  TSO VII
                               with the City of Raceland
41-2015            5-14-2015   Authorizing the 2015 action  TSO XI
                               plan
                               Adopting 2015-2019 community
42-2015            5-14-2015   development bock grant       TSO IV
                               consolidated plan
                               Authorizing a master
43-2015            5-14-2015   equipment lease/purchase     TSO VII
                               agreement
44-2015            5-28-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO IV
                               Building Crafts, Inc.
45-2015            5-28-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO IV
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
46-2015            5-28-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO IV
                               Mountain Enterprises, Inc.
47-2015            5-28-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Shield Roofing
                               Adopting a concrete          97.100;
48-2015            5-28-2015   replacement and construction 97.101;
                               policy; repealing Ord. 95-   TSO XVII
                               2002
                               Amending regulations         97.002;
49-2015            5-28-2015   concerning keeping sidewalks 97.999
                               clear
                               Amending hiring practices
50-2015            5-28-2015   for police officers;         TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 9-2015
                               Adopting the standard
51-2015            5-28-2015   operating procedures of the  TSO XVII
                               Fire Department
52-2015            6-4-2015    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Midwest Salt, LLC
                               Approving a renewal with
                               Medical Benefits
53-2015            6-4-2015    Administrator, Inc. to       TSO VII
                               administer the city s health
                               insurance coverage
                               Authorizing an agreement
54-2015            6-11-2015   with Peoples Insurance       TSO VII
                               Agency of Ohio, LLC
55-2015            6-25-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Mike Enyart & Sons, Inc.
                               Authorizing an amendment to
56-2015            6-25-2015   the city flexible benefit    TSO VII
                               plan
57-2015            6-25-2015   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Fixing regulatory license
58-2015            6-25-2015   fee for fiscal year 2015-    TSO XVIII
                               2016
59-2015            6-25-2015   Fixing the tax levy for 2015 TSO XVIII
                               Adjusting compensation for
60-2015            6-25-2015   fiscal year 2015-2016 for    Not included
                               the Mayor and City
                               Commissioners
61-2015            6-25-2015   Amending the salary schedule Not included
62-2015            6-25-2015   Authorizing a trust          TSO VII
                               participation agreement
63-2015            6-25-2015   Adopting the 2015-2016       Not included
                               budget
64-2015            6-25-2015   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for 2015
65-2015            6-26-2015   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               with Thomas L. Klein
66-2015            6-26-2015   Authorizing a change order   TSO VII
                               with R&C Excavating, LLC
67-2015            6-26-2015   Authorizing a utility        TSO IV
                               relocation agreement
                               Amending regulations
                               concerning garbage disposal; 93.99;
68-2015            6-26-2015   repealing Ords. 6-1976, 16-  TSO XVII
                               1976, 82-2005 and 94-2006;
                               repealed
                               Authorizing execution of a
69-2015            6-26-2015   deed with Mary Fairchild     TSO XIII
                               Webster
                               Authorizing execution of a
70-2015            6-26-2015   deed with Joy Fairchild      TSO XIII
                               Griffiths
                               Authorizing an agreement
71-2015            6-26-2015   with Fraternal Order of      TSO IV
                               Police, Ashland Lodge #3
                               Authorizing an agreement
72-2015            8-13-2015   with Members Choice Credit   TSO IV
                               Union
                               Authorizing an amendment to
73-2015            8-13-2015   task order #19 with Strand   TSO VII
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
74-2015            8-13-2015   with Ashland Child           TSO IV
                               Development Center, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
75-2015            8-13-2015   with Ashland Community       TSO IV
                               Kitchen, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
76-2015            8-13-2015   with Boyd County Council on  TSO XVII
                               Aging, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
77-2015            8-13-2015   with Community Assistance    TSO XVII
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
78-2015            8-13-2015   with Safe Harbor of          TSO IV
                               Northeast Kentucky, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
79-2015            8-13-2015   with the Salvation Army of   TSO XVII
                               Ashland; repealed
                               Authorizing an agreement
80-2015            8-13-2015   with Shelter of Hope, Inc.;  TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 99-2015
81-2015            8-13-2015   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               with EN Engineering
                               Adjusting compensation for
82-2015            8-13-2015   fiscal year 2015-2016 for    Not included
                               the Mayor and City
                               Commissioners
83-2015            8-27-2015   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               with B&B Holdings LLC.
                               Authorizing task order 2015-
84-2015            8-27-2015   01 with HDR Engineering,     TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing a license
85-2015            8-27-2015   agreement with Broadcast     TSO VII
                               Music, Inc.
                               Adopting job descriptions
86-2015            8-27-2015   for positions in the         Not included
                               Department of Fire
87-2015            8-27-2015   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
88-2015            8-31-2015   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               R&C Excavating, LLC
                               Authorizing execution of
89-2015            8-31-2015   documentation regarding the  TSO IV
                               disbursement of coal
                               severance funds
                               Amending regulations
90-2015            8-31-2015   regarding the discharge of   TSO XVII
                               toy pistols, air rifles, BB
                               guns, and the like; repealed
                               Adopting the S-56, S-57, and
91-2015            9-24-2015   S-58 Supplements to the code Not included
                               of ordinances
                               Authorizing FY 2015 and FY
92-2015            9-24-2015   2016 grant applications to   TSO XI
                               the Federal Transit
                               Administration
                               Adopting revised job
93-2015            9-24-2015   descriptions for positions   Not included
                               in the Department of
                               Engineering and Utilities
                               Authorizing submittal of
94-2015            9-24-2015   city s consolidated annual   TSO VII
                               performance and evaluation
                               report for 2014
                               Authorizing an amendment to
95-2015            9-24-2015   a contract with Building     TSO IV
                               Crafts, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
96-2015            10-8-2015   King s Daughters and Sons    TSO IV
                               Home and Guys Floor Covering
                               Authorizing an agreement
97-2015            10-8-2015   with Boyd County Council on  TSO IV
                               Aging, Inc., Ashland Senior
                               Center
                               Authorizing an agreement
98-2015            10-8-2015   with Community Assistance    TSO IV
                               Referral Service, Inc.
99-2015            10-8-2015   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               with Shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Adopting amendments for the
100-2015           10-8-2015   Fire Department Union for    TSO IV
                               the City of Ashland medical
                               care plan
                               Amendment to Ord. 47-1982,
101-2015           10-8-2015   requiring application for    TSO VII
                               excavations in public
                               rights-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of
102-2015           10-8-2015   documentation regarding the  TSO XVII
                               disbursement of coal
                               severance funds; repealed
103-2015           10-22-2015  Amending the city s health   TSO VII
                               reimbursement plan
104-2015           10-22-2015  Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with the Commonwealth of
105-2015           11-12-2015  Kentucky Energy and          TSO VII
                               Environment Cabinet,
                               Division of Enforcement, for
                               payment of a civil penalty
                               Amending the policies and
                               procedures, compensation
106-2015           11-12-2015  plan and classification      TSO VII
                               plan, part VII: grievance
                               procedures
107-2015           11-12-2015  Amending regulations         130.16
                               regarding toy guns
108-2015           12-10-2015  Amending penalty provisions  TSO XVII
                               for parking violations
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Crescent Moon
109-2015           12-10-2015  Properties, LLC, to allow a  TSO VII
                               magazine cart on a city
                               right-of-way
110-2015           12-10-2015  Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Authorizing an agreement
111-2015           12-10-2015  with Layne Inliner, LLC, for TSO VII
                               a sewer and street
                               rehabilitation project
                               Authorizing contract with
112-2015           12-10-2015  Green Valley Landfill for    TSO VII
                               sludge removal
                               Amending solicitation        120.15;
113-2015           12-10-2015  regulations                  120.18;
                                                            120.99
114-2015           12-10-2015  Adopting the S-59 Supplement Not included
                               to the code of ordinances
                               Amending policies and
115-2015           12-10-2015  procedures for Fire          TSO V
                               Department
                               Repealing Ord. 79-2015
116-2015           12-10-2015  regarding an application for TSO XVII
                               community development block
                               grant funds
                               Authorizing agreement with
117-2015           12-10-2015  Safe Harbor of Northeast     TSO VII
                               Kentucky to assist in
                               utility reimbursement costs
                               Establishing a consent agent
118-2015           12-10-2015  for matters recommended by   30.05
                               the City Manager
                               Authorizing the execution of
1-2016             1-14-2016   an agreement with UK King s  TSO IX
                               Daughters regarding an
                               encroachment
2-2016             1-14-2016   Amending Ord. 68-2015;       TSO XVII
                               repealed
3-2016             1-14-2016   Amending Ord. 55-2013        30.06
4-2016             1-14-2016   Adopting amendments for the  Not included
                               Kentucky medical care plan
                               Authorizing the execution of
5-2016             1-14-2016   a contract with Danny        TSO VII
                               Sullivan Excavating, LLC
                               Adopting the housing choice
6-2016             1-14-2016   voucher program              155.04
                               administrative plan
                               Authorizing the execution of
7-2016             1-14-2016   an agreement with Clancy     TSO VII
                               Systems International, Inc.
8-2016             1-28-2016   Amending Ord. 105-2006       99.01;
                                                            99.08
9-2016             1-28-2016   Amending Ord. 110-2006 and   99.02;
                               Ord. 114-2008                99.06
                               Authorizing the execution of
10-2016            1-28-2016   a contract with River Cities TSO VII
                               Disposal, LLC
                               Authorizing the execution of
11-2016            1-28-2016   an agreement with the        TSO XI
                               Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
                               Authorizing the execution of
12-2016            1-28-2016   a contract with Mike Enyart  TSO VII
                               & Sons, Inc.
                               Specifying limits to
13-2016            2-11-2016   communications between city  Not included
                               employees and the Mayor and/
                               or City Commissioners
                               Authorizing the execution of
14-2016            2-11-2016   a contract with Morris       TSO VII
                               Contracting
                               Authorizing the execution of
15-2016            2-11-2016   an agreement with the Boyd   TSO VII
                               County Board of Education
                               Authorizing the execution of
16-2016            2-11-2016   an agreement with Howerton   TSO VII
                               Engineering and Surveying,
                               PLLC
                               Authorizing the submission
17-2016            2-12-2016   of a highway safety grant    TSO IV
                               application
                               Authorizing the execution of
18-2016            2-12-2016   task order #20 with Strand   TSO VII
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
19-2016            2-12-2016   a second amendment to task   TSO VII
                               order #19 with Strand
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
20-2016            2-12-2016   change order no. 1 with      TSO VII
                               Building Crafts, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
21-2016            2-12-2016   change order no. 1 with      TSO VII
                               Layne Inliner, LLC
                               Authorizing the execution of
22-2016            2-12-2016   a contract between Ashland   TSO IV
                               Child Development Center and
                               Morris Contracting
                               Authorizing and approving
23-2016            2-12-2016   change order no. 1 with Guy  TSO IV
                               s Floor Covering, LLC
                               Adjusting compensation for
24-2016            2-26-2016   fiscal year 2016-2017 for    Not included
                               the Mayor and City
                               Commissioners
                               Authorizing the execution of
25-2016            2-26-2016   an agreement with Hanna      TSO VII
                               Resource Group, LLC
                               Authorizing and approving
26-2016            2-26-2016   change order no. 2 with Guy  TSO IV
                               s Floor Covering, LLC
                               Authorizing the execution of
27-2016            2-26-2016   a contract with Morris       TSO VII
                               Contracting
28-2016            2-26-2016   Amending local pollutant     50.028
                               discharge limits
                               Adopting the amended five-
29-2016            2-26-2016   year consolidated plan for   TSO IV
                               the Department of Planning
                               and Community Development
                               Authorizing the execution of
30-2016            2-26-2016   a general release and        TSO VII
                               separation agreement with
                               Benjamin Bitter
                               Authorizing the execution of
31-2016            3-24-2016   a contract with Brenntag     TSO VII
                               Mid-South, Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
32-2016            3-24-2016   a contract with Chemtrade    TSO VII
                               Chemicals, U.S., LLC
                               Authorizing the execution of
33-2016            3-24-2016   a contract with C. I.        TSO VII
                               Thornburg Co., Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
34-2016            3-24-2016   a contract with Hawkins,     TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
35-2016            3-24-2016   a contract with Polydyne,    TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
36-2016            3-24-2016   a contract with Univar USA,  TSO VII
                               Inc.
37-2016            3-24-2016   Authorizing the execution of TSO VII
                               a contract with USALCO, LLC
                               Authorizing and approving
38-2016            3-24-2016   change order no. 2 with      TSO VII
                               Layne Inliner, LLC
                               Authorizing the execution of
39-2016            3-24-2016   an agreement with Granicus,  TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing the execution of
40-2016            3-24-2016   an agreement with Peoples    TSO VII
                               Insurance Agency of Ohio,
                               LLC
41-2016            3-24-2016   Amending Ord. 73-2013;       TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 172, 2024
                               Rules and regulations for    96.01;
43-2016            4-14-2016   use of Central Park;         96.13;
                               repealing Ords. 36-2011, 57- 96.99
                               2012, 96-2013, 45-2014
44-2016            4-14-2016   Agreement with PMAM          TSO VII
                               Corporation
                               Change order for contract
45-2016            4-14-2016   with Danny Sullivan          TSO VII
                               Excavating, LLC
                               Contract with Badger Meter,
46-2016            4-14-2016   Inc. for purchase of water   TSO VII
                               meters
47-2016            4-14-2016   Policy on grant application  31.100
                               submission
48-2016            4-14-2016   Deed of conveyance - 1525    TSO XIII
                               Winchester Avenue
49-2016            4-14-2016   Grant application for bus    TSO IV
                               system
50-2016            4-14-2016   Housing choice voucher       155.04
                               program
                               Amending policies,
51-2016            4-14-2016   compensation, classification Not included
                               for the city
                               Two hour parking; repealing
                               Ords. 155-1984, 110-1989,
52-2016            4-14-2016   152-1990, 10-1991, 18-1991,  72.999;
                               34-1992, 80-1994, 39-1996,   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               140-2000, 21-2003, 102-2006,
                               45-2008, 58-2008, 108-2015
53-2016            4-14-2016   Changing date of a           Not included
                               Commission meeting
54-2016            4-27-2016   Contract with Service Pump   TSO VII
                               and Supply, Inc.
                               Change order in a contract
55-2016            4-27-2016   regarding Ashland Child      TSO IV
                               Development Center
56-2016            4-27-2016   Grant application to HUD     TSO IV
57-2016            4-27-2016   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                               Agreement with B.J.R. & C.,
58-2016            5-4-2016    Inc. for encroachment for    TSO VII
                               installation of a sign
59-2016            5-4-2016    Executing proposal for work  TSO IV
60-2016            5-4-2016    Proposal for work for water  TSO VII
                               and sewer
61-2016            5-18-2016   Contract for concrete        TSO VII
                               replacement
62-2016            5-18-2016   Contract for asphalt         TSO VII
                               material for streets
63-2016            5-18-2016   Approving change order on    TSO VII
                               contract
64-2016            5-18-2016   Contract for turbine pumps   TSO VII
                               and related equipment
                               Proposal for consulting
65-2016            5-18-2016   services re downtown         TSO IV
                               redevelopment
                               Renewal with Medical
66-2016            5-26-2016   Benefits Administrators,     TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Agreement regarding an
67-2016            5-26-2016   encroachment for a retaining TSO VII
                               wall
68-2016            6-1-2016    Adopting the 2016-2017       Not included
                               budget
69-2016            6-1-2016    Contract for rock salt       TSO VII
                               Contract regarding water
70-2016            6-1-2016    pumping stations improvement TSO VII
                               project
                               Police hiring regulations;
71-2016            6-1-2016    repealing Ord. 50-2015;      TSO XVII
                               repealed
72-2016            6-1-2016    Changing meeting time for    Not included
                               one specific date
73-2016            6-23-2016   Tax levy on bank deposits    TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax for 2016
                               Fixing regulatory license
74-2016            6-23-2016   fee on alcoholic beverages   TSO XVIII
                               sales
75-2016            6-23-2016   Job description for senior   Not included
                               financial analyst
76-2016            6-6-2016    Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
                                                            157.003;
77-2016            6-23-2016   Amending 101-1986 gun ranges 157.183;
                                                            157.207
                               Change order concerning the
78-2016            7-5-2016    31st street drainage         TSO VII
                               improvement project
79-2016            7-5-2016    Fixing Commissioners         30.06
                               meetings
80-2016            7-5-2016    Contract for fencing         TSO VII
                               Agreement with Kentucky
81-2016            7-5-2016    Community and Technical      TSO VII
                               college system regarding a
                               water line
82-2016            7-6-2016    Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               2016
                               Adopting the S-60 and S-61
83-2016            8-4-2016    Supplements to the code of   Not included
                               ordinances
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
84-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
85-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
86-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
87-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
88-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
89-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
90-2016            8-4-2016    of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
91-2016            8-4-2016    Approving change order on    TSO VII
                               contract
                               Amending policies and
92-2016            8-4-2016    procedures of the            Not included
                               compensation plan and
                               classification plan
93-2016            8-11-2016   Allowing use of sidewalk for Not included
                               daily sales
94-2016            8-25-2016   Contract for sewer line      TSO VII
                               replacement
95-2016            9-8-2016    Contract for turbine pump    TSO VII
96-2016            9-8-2016    Approving change order on    TSO VII
                               contract
97-2016            9-8-2016    School resource officer      TSO VII
                               agreement
98-2016            9-8-2016    Closing a portion of Mill    TSO XIV
                               Street
99-2016            9-22-2016   Agreement with Ashland       TSO VII
                               Hospital Corporation
                               Contract for labor for
100-2016           9-22-2016   abatement of high grass and  TSO VII
                               weeds
                               Amended proposal for new
101-2016           9-22-2016   water distribution and sewer TSO VII
                               maintenance facility
102-2016           9-22-2016   Authorizing submission of    TSO VII
                               2015 CAPER
103-2016           9-22-2016   Restricting animals within   TSO XVII
                               the city
104-2016           9-22-2016   Regulating the use of city   96.06
                               parks
105-2016           10-6-2016   Change order for a           TSO VII
                               construction contract
106-2016           9-22-2016   Encroachment agreement for a TSO VII
                               waterline project
107-2016           9-22-2016   Amending the FY 2016-2017    Not included
                               budget
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute documents for        TSO VII;
108-2016           9-22-2016   disbursement of coal         TSO XVII
                               severance funds; repeals
                               Ord. 102-2015
                               Adopting the Ashland E-
109-2016           9-22-2016   nnovation broadband          TSO IV
                               strategic plan
110-2016           9-22-2016   Amending maximum discharge   50.028
                               limitations for sewers
111-2016           10-13-2016  Adopting a fee schedule for  Not included
                               credit/debit card payments
112-2016           10-13-2016  Accepting a proposal for     TSO VII
                               sludge removal
113-2016           10-13-2016  Labor and materials contract TSO VII
                               for tree trimming
                               Amending regulations         120.15;
114-2016           10-13-2016  regarding the solicitation   120.16
                               of funds
115-2016           10-13-2016  Contract for tennis court    TSO VII
                               renovation project
116-2016           10-13-2016  Amending the city s medical  Not included
                               care plan
117-2016           10-13-2016  Easement agreement for       TSO IX
                               access to a cell tower
                               Memorandum of understanding
                               regarding the city s
118-2016           10-13-2016  participation in an urban    TSO XI
                               search and rescue team task
                               force
                               Consulting services
119-2016           10-6-2016   agreement for City Manager   TSO VII
                               search
120-2016           10-27-2016  Public transportation grant  TSO XI
                               agreement
                               Construction contract for
121-2016           10-27-2016  safe routes to schools       TSO VII
                               project
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
122-2016           10-27-2016  plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; certain job
                               descriptions
123-2016           10-27-2016  Agreement with Ashland City  TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
124-2016           10-27-2016  plan and classification      Not included
                               plan; social media an
                               internet policies
125-2016           11-10-2016  Accepting a homeland         TSO XI
                               security grant
126-2016           11-10-2016  Labor and materials contract TSO VII
                               for construction project
                               Contract for removal,
127-2016           11-10-2016  rebuild and installation of  TSO VII
                               turbine pumps
128-2016           11-10-2016  Accepting a water line and   TSO I
                               meter pit
                               Amending policies and
129-2016           11-10-2016  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification
                               plan; benefits, sick leave
                               Amending policies and
130-2016           11-10-2016  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification
                               plan; positions list
131-2016           11-10-2016  Amending the FY 2016-2017    Not included
                               budget
                               Adopting the S-62 and S-63
132-2016           11-10-2016  Supplements to the code of   Not included
                               ordinances
1-2017             12-8-2016   Employee assistance program  TSO VII
                               management agreement
2-2017             12-8-2016   Agreement allowing the city  TSO VII
                               to sell Greyhound tickets
                               Agreement for an
3-2017             12-8-2016   encroachment for a retaining TSO VII
                               wall on a city right-of-way
                               Authorizing condemnation
4-2017             12-8-2016   proceedings required for a   TSO VI
                               sewer separation project
                               Contract for the removal and
5-2017             1-5-2017    disposal of sludge from city TSO VII
                               water and wastewater
                               treatment plants
                               Authorizing a task order
6-2017             1-5-2017    regarding the annual         TSO VII
                               combined sewer overflow
                               report for the city
                               Authorizing grant
                               application to the Kentucky
7-2017             1-5-2017    Transportation Cabinet for   TSO IV
                               funds to aid the Ashland
                               Police Department
                               Contract for the purchase
8-2017             1-5-2017    and installation of an HVAC  TSO VII
                               system in the Highlands
                               Museum building
                               Approving a change order to
9-2017             1-25-2017   a contract regarding the     TSO VII
                               safe routes to school
                               project
                               Contract for labor and
11-2017            1-26-2017   materials for concrete and   TSO VII
                               asphalt repair
                               Amending the policies and
12-2017            1-26-2017   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
13-2017            1-26-2017   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Contract for a landfill
14-2017            2-15-2017   location for disposal of     TSO VII
                               garbage
                               Contract for the purchase of
15-2017            2-23-2017   a generator for a pump       TSO VII
                               station
                               Contract for the purchase of
16-2017            2-23-2017   liquid chlorine, liquid      TSO VII
                               caustic soda, and sulfur
                               dioxide
17-2017            2-23-2017   Contract for the purchase of TSO VII
                               aluminum sulfate
                               Contract for the purchase of
18-2017            2-23-2017   hydrofluosilicic acid and    TSO VII
                               sodium hypochlorite
                               Contract for the purchase of
19-2017            2-23-2017   liquid sodium permanganate   TSO VII
                               and potassium permanganate
                               Contract for the purchase of
20-2017            2-23-2017   powdered activated carbon,   TSO VII
                               sand and polymer cationic
21-2017            2-23-2017   Contract for the purchase of TSO VII
                               liquid polymer
22-2017            2-23-2017   Contract for the purchase of TSO VII
                               poly-aluminum chloride
                               Contract with Legal Aid of
23-2017            3-9-2017    the Bluegrass for the        TSO VII
                               leasing of parking spaces
                               Contract with Gliding Swan
24-2017            3-9-2017    Properties, LLC, for the     TSO VII
                               leasing of parking spaces
25-2017            3-9-2017    Contract for a street storm  TSO VII
                               water separation project
                               Contract for the
26-2017            3-9-2017    installation of blow-offs/   TSO VII
                               flushing hydrants
27-2017            3-9-2017    Contract for a water line    TSO VII
                               installation project
                               Adopting the housing choice
28-2017            3-9-2017    voucher program 2017 annual  TSO IV
                               and administrative plan
                               Agreement for the placing of
29-2017            3-9-2017    painted pianos at various    TSO VII
                               locations within the city
30-2017            3-23-2017   Contract for a street sewer  TSO VII
                               system improvement project
                               Agreement for insurance and/
31-2017            4-13-2017   or risk management support   TSO VII
                               services
                               Contract for the purchase of
32-2017            4-13-2017   reagentless chlorine         TSO VII
                               analyzers
33-2017            4-13-2017   Contract for material for a  TSO VII
                               street paving program
34-2017            4-13-2017   Contract for the painting of TSO VII
                               an access bridge
                               Settlement agreement of and
35-2017            4-13-2017   insurance claim for water    TSO VII
                               damage
                               Amending the authorized
36-2017            4-13-2017   positions list for the       Not included
                               Department of Engineering
                               and Utilities
37-2017            4-13-2017   Repealing Ord. 71-2003       TSO XVII
38-2017            4-27-2017   Fixing Commissioners         30.06
                               meetings
39-2017            4-27-2017   Changing street name         TSO XV
40-2017            5-11-2017   Contract for the purchase of TSO VII
                               fire pumper
41-2017            5-11-2017   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Contract for the purchase of
42-2017            5-25-2017   a vehicle security camera    TSO VII
                               system
43-2017            6-8-2017    Contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               rock salt
44-2017            6-8-2017    Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
45-2017            6-8-2017    Establishing a development   TSO IV
                               area
                               Fixing regulatory license
46-2017            6-9-2017    fee on alcoholic beverages   TSO XVIII
                               sales
                               Contract to administer the
47-2017            6-9-2017    city s health insurance      TSO VII
                               coverage
48-2017            6-9-2017    Contract for a sewer project TSO IV
                               Mutual aid agreement between
49-2017            6-9-2017    the City, Fire Department    TSO XVII
                               and Boyd County Emergency
                               Management
50-2017            6-9-2017    Contract for roof at the     TSO VII
                               Fire Department
                               Amending the policies and
51-2017            6-9-2017    procedures, compensation     TSO XVII
                               plan and classification plan
                               and repealing Ord. 91-2011
52-2017            6-9-2017    Employment agreement         TSO VII
53-2017            6-27-2017   Contract for the rental of   TSO VII
                               work uniforms
54-2017            6-27-2017   Contract for the concrete    TSO IV
                               improvement program
                               Amending alcoholic beverage
55-2017            6-27-2017   regulations; repealed by     TSO XVII
                               Ord. 59-2018
56-2017            6-27-2017   Tax levy on bank deposits    TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax for 2017
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
57-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
58-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
59-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient TSO IV;
60-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO XVII
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
61-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
62-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
                               Agreement with sub-recipient
63-2017            6-27-2017   of community development     TSO IV
                               block grant
64-2017            6-27-2017   Employment agreement         TSO VII
65-2017            6-27-2017   Contract regarding the       TSO VII
                               Central Park Tennis Courts
66-2017            6-27-2017   Contract for the Mill Street TSO IV
                               Building Project
                               Amending the authorized
67-2017            6-27-2017   positions of the policies    Not included
                               and procedures, compensation
                               plan and classification plan
68-2017            6-27-2017   Amending the FY 2016-2017    Not included
                               budget
69-2017            6-27-2017   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               2017
70-2017            6-29-2017   Adopting the FY 2017-2018    Not included
                               budget
                               Master development agreement
71-2017            7-5-2017    regarding the Ashland Plaza  TSO IV
                               development area
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the 2017-2018 action plan to
72-2017            7-27-2017   the Department of Housing    TSO IV
                               and Urban Development for a
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Authorizing the placement of
73-2017            7-27-2017   temporary speed bumps on     Not included
                               Hilton Avenue and on Fair
                               Franz
                               Contract for homeowner
74-2017            8-10-2017   rehabilitation project at    TSO IV
                               3317 Central Avenue
                               Change order no. 2 for a
75-2017            8-10-2017   contract regarding the Mill  TSO VII
                               Street Building Project
                               Contract for replacement of
76-2017            8-10-2017   the rubber roof at Fire      TSO VII
                               Department station no. 2
                               Contract for the
77-2017            8-10-2017   construction of a new water  TSO VII
                               distribution and wastewater
                               collection facility
                               Amending the medical care
78-2017            8-10-2017   plan as adopted by Ord. 46-  Not included
                               2012
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the FY 2017 grant
79-2017            8-10-2017   application to the Federal   TSO IV
                               Transit Administration for
                               the Ashland Bus System
                               Change order no. 1 for a
80-2017            8-11-2017   contract regarding the 29th  TSO VII
                               Street storm water
                               separation project
                               Change order no. 1 for a
                               contract regarding the new
81-2017            8-11-2017   water distribution and sewer TSO VII
                               maintenance facilities
                               located at Mill Street and
                               28th Street
                               Change order no. 2 for a
82-2017            8-11-2017   contract regarding the       TSO VII
                               Central Park Tennis Courts
                               Change order no. 3 for a
83-2017            8-11-2017   contract regarding the Mill  TSO VII
                               Street Building Project
84-2017            8-11-2017   Amending the salary schedule Not included
85-2017            8-24-2017   Authorizing the issuance of  TSO III
                               general obligation bonds
                               Professional services
86-2017            9-14-2017   agreement for compliance     TSO VII
                               services at the Wastewater
                               (Sewer) Treatment Plant
                               Adding position of public
                               information officer in the
87-2017            9-14-2017   Department of General        Not included
                               Government, Division of City
                               Manager
                               Memorandum of understanding
                               regarding encroachment upon
88-2017            9-14-2017   city rights-of-way for the   TSO IV
                               construction of the Kentucky
                               Wired Network
89-2017            9-14-2017   Amending the salary schedule Not included
                               Adopting the city s 2016
90-2017            9-14-2017   consolidated annual          Not included
                               performance evaluation
                               report (CAPER)
                               Change order no. 1 for a
                               contract regarding for the
91-2017            9-14-2017   Floyd Street/Skyline Drive   TSO VII
                               Waterline Replacement
                               Project
                               Adopting the city s 2016
92-2017            9-14-2017   consolidated annual          TSO VII
                               performance evaluation
                               report (CAPER).
93-2017            9-14-2017   Amending parking prohibition Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedule
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the revised 2017-2018 action
94-2017            9-14-2017   plan to the Department of    TSO IV
                               Housing and Urban
                               Development for a community
                               development block grant
                               Contract for the purchase of
95-2017            9-14-2017   stock and parts for a        TSO VII
                               waterline replacement
                               project
96-2017            9-28-2017   Contract for the purchase of TSO VII
                               gravel, stone and sand
                               Contract for the purchase
97-2017            9-28-2017   and installation of an HVAC  TSO IV
                               system
                               Declaring the Carp Precinct
                               adversely affected by the
                               legal sale of alcohol in the
                               neighboring Central and
98-2017            9-28-2017   Moore precincts, and calling Not included
                               for an election to be held
                               in the Carp Precinct to
                               consider allowing the legal
                               sale of alcohol therein
99-2017            10-12-2017  Agreement regarding the      TSO XIII
                               lease of a cell tower
                               Amending provisions          157.003;
100-2017           10-12-2017  regarding conditional uses   157.183;
                                                            157.207
                               Amending the comprehensive
101-2017           10-12-2017  hiring ordinance for police  TSO XVII
                               officers for the Department
                               of Police
                               Amending the authorized
102-2017           10-26-2017  positions of the policies    Not included
                               and procedures, compensation
                               plan and classification plan
103-2017           10-27-2017  Regarding a parking          TSO XVII
                               encroachment
                               Amending an agreement with
104-2017           10-27-2017  Community Assistance         TSO IV
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               (CARES)
105-2017           10-27-2017  Amending the FY 2017-2018    Not included
                               budget
                               Designating the city a
106-2017           10-27-2017  participant in the Boyd      TSO VII
                               County Solid Waste
                               Management Area
107-2017           10-27-2017  Regarding the Mill Street    TSO VII
                               Building Project
                               Regarding a public
108-2017           11-9-2017   transportation grant         TSO VII
                               agreement with Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Regarding a contract between
109-2017           11-9-2017   the city and Commonwealth    TSO IV
                               Economics Partners, LLC
                               Accepting a proposal to
                               provide management
110-2017           11-9-2017   consulting services for the  TSO VII
                               Department of Engineering
                               and Utilities
                               Amending the policies and
111-2017           12-14-2017  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
112-2017           12-14-2017  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
113-2017           12-14-2017  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Accepting the donation of
114-2017           12-14-2017  property located at 1401     TSO XIII
                               Winchester Avenue
                               Authorizing a grant
                               agreement with respect to    TSO IV;
1-2018             1-11-2018   the hotel redevelopment      TSO XVII
                               project; repealed by Ord.
                               177-2018
2-2018             1-11-2018   Designating handicapped      Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
                               Amending Ord. 41-1993 to
3-2018             1-11-2018   correct name of street re:   Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               parking prohibition
                               Authorizing contract for
4-2018             1-11-2018   security cameras for water   TSO VII
                               treatment plant
                               Amending abandoned property  157.280;
5-2018             1-11-2018   provisions to include        157.282
                               blighted property
                               Amending provisions of
6-2018             1-11-2018   adopted International        152.02
                               Property Maintenance Code
                               Authorizing contract for
7-2018             1-11-2018   sludge removal from          TSO VII
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               Authorizing contract with
8-2018             1-11-2018   for water main installation  TSO VII
                               on Louisa Street
                               Authorizing change order #1
9-2018             1-11-2018   to contract for water        TSO IV
                               distribution and wastewater
                               collection facility
                               Authorizing agreement re:
10-2018            1-25-2018   leasing of parking spaces on TSO XIII
                               parking lot at 15th Street
                               and Greenup Avenue
                               Authorizing agreed order
                               with Kentucky Energy and
11-2018            1-25-2018   Environment Cabinet,         TSO VII
                               Division of Enforcement re:
                               violations at wastewater
                               treatment plant
                               Authorizing contract re:
12-2018            1-25-2018   Catlettsburg water storage   TSO VII
                               tank
13-2018            1-25-2018   Authorizing task order #22   TSO VII
                               re: sewer overflow report
14-2018            1-25-2018   Amending the FY 2017-2018    Not included
                               budget
                               Authorizing contract for the
                               Debord Terrace concrete and
15-2018            1-25-2018   handrail project and HUD     TSO IV
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Authorizing contract with
                               for HVAC system at 1526 and
16-2018            1-25-2018   1538 Central Avenue through  TSO IV
                               HUD community development
                               block grant
17-2018            1-25-2018   Amending depositories of     37.021;
                               public funds                 37.022
                               Amending the policies and
18-2018            1-25-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing amended
19-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing amended
20-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing amended
21-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing amended
22-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing amended
23-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing amended
24-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing amended
25-2018            2-8-2018    agreement to change contact  TSO IV
                               information re: community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing pole attachment
26-2018            2-8-2018    license agreement for        TSO VII
                               security system at water
                               storage reservoir
                               Accepting proposal for water
27-2018            2-8-2018    treatment plant SCADA and    TSO VII
                               instrument systems
28-2018            2-8-2018    Amending oversight of        72.014
                               downtown residential parking
                               Amending the policies and
29-2018            2-8-2018    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Providing for rules and
30-2018            2-8-2018    regulations for Port of      TSO XVII
                               Ashland, Riverside Park
                               Contract for labor and
31-2018            2-8-2018    materials for concrete and   TSO VII
                               asphalt repair
                               Amending garbage, water and
32-2018            2-8-2018    sewer provisions; repealed   TSO XVII
                               by Ord. 36, 2023
                               Authorizing change order #2
33-2018            2-9-2018    to contract for proposed     TSO IV
                               downtown redevelopment
                               project
                               Authorizing agreement with
                               Kentucky Transportation
34-2018            2-9-2018    Cabinet for decorative       TSO IV
                               traffic signal at
                               intersection of U.S. 23 and
                               U.S. 60
                               Accepting engineering
35-2018            2-9-2018    services agreement for       TSO VII
                               renovation of Judd Plaza
                               Amending the policies and
36-2018            2-9-2018    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing memorandum of
37-2018            2-12-2018   understanding re: water      TSO VII
                               treatment plant filters
                               Accepting proposal for water
38-2018            2-22-2018   treatment plant filter       TSO VII
                               project
39-2018            3-8-2018    Adding beekeeping operations 157.003;
                               as conditional use           157.183
                               Authorizing memorandum of
40-2018            3-8-2018    agreement re: transportation TSO XI
                               planning process (MPO)
                               Amending the policies and
41-2018            3-8-2018    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
42-2018            3-8-2018    Amending street event        Not included
                               application form
43-2018            3-8-2018    Authorizing contract for     TSO VII
                               garbage and refuse disposal
                               Adopting the S-64, S-65 and
44-2018            3-22-2018   S-67 Supplements to the code Not included
                               of ordinances
45-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of      TSO VII
                               liquid chlorine
46-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of      TSO VII
                               poly-aluminum chloride
47-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of sand TSO VII
48-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of      TSO VII
                               liquid polymer
49-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of      TSO VII
                               powdered activated carbon
50-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of      TSO VII
                               liquid sodium permanganate
51-2018            3-22-2018   Authorizing purchase of      TSO VII
                               aluminum sulfate
                               Authorizing task order 2018-
52-2018            3-22-2018   01 for phase 2 storm water   TSO VII
                               MS4 compliance report
                               Authorizing change order #2
53-2018            3-22-2018   re: water distribution and   TSO IV
                               sewer maintenance facilities
                               at Mill and 28th Streets
                               Amending agreement with
                               Kentucky Transportation
54-2018            3-22-2018   Cabinet re: Ashland safe     TSO IV
                               routes to school federal
                               project
                               Authorizing five-year
55-2018            3-22-2018   extension to housing choice  TSO XVII
                               voucher program
                               Authorizing change order #1
56-2018            3-22-2018   re: Debord Terrace concrete  TSO IV
                               and handrail project
                               Authorizing agreement with
57-2018            3-22-2018   Boyd County Sanitation       TSO XI
                               District No. 4
                               Adopting housing choice
58-2018            3-22-2018   voucher program 2018 annual  155.04
                               and administrative plan
59-2018            3-22-2018   Establishing regulations for TSO XVII
                               sale of alcoholic beverages
                               Establishing grant
60-2018            3-22-2018   application guidelines;      TSO XVII
                               repealed
                               Executing a contribution-in-
61-2018            4-12-2018   aid-of-construction          TSO VII
                               agreement with Kentucky
                               Power Company
                               Approving change order No. 2
                               to a contract with Tribute
62-2018            4-21-2018   Contracting & Construction   TSO IV
                               LLC regarding a storm water
                               separation project
                               Creating the Department of   35.24;
63-2018            4-12-2018   Parks and Recreation;        35.25;
                               repealing Ord. 72-1999       98.15; 
                                                            98.22
                               Executing a contract with
64-2018            4-12-2018   A&J Properties for the       TSO IV
                               installation of a water line
                               extension
                               Amending permitted signs
65-2018            4-12-2018   regulations for general      158.05
                               business and industrial
                               districts
                               Amending the policies and
66-2018            4-12-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing a contract with
67-2018            4-26-2018   Mountain Enterprises, Inc.,  TSO IV
                               for placement of asphalt
                               material
68-2018            4-26-2018   Amending the city s stop     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               intersections schedule
                               Authorizing a contract with
69-2018            4-26-2018   Ashland Furnace Co., Inc.,   TSO VII
                               for the installation of an
                               HVAC system
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               GRW Engineers, Inc., for
70-2018            4-26-2018   water treatment plant and    TSO IV
                               field instrumentation needs
                               assessment
                               Contract for labor for
71-2018            4-26-2018   abatement of high grass and  TSO XVII
                               weeds; repealed by Ord. 84-
                               2018
                               Contract for labor for
72-2018            4-26-2018   abatement of high grass and  TSO VII
                               weeds
                               Contract regarding an
73-2018            5-10-2018   encroachment for a sign in   TSO VII
                               the city s right-of-way
                               Contract regarding a parking
74-2018            5-10-2018   encroachment in the city s   TSO VII
                               right-of-way
                               Amendment to contract for
75-2018            5-10-2018   the city s new water         TSO IV
                               distribution and wastewater
                               collection facility
                               Amending the policies and
76-2018            5-10-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending regulations
77-2018            5-10-2018   regarding political campaign 158.04
                               signs
78-2018            5-10-2018   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Amending the policies and
79-2018            5-21-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
80-2018            5-21-2018   Amending city parking        Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedules
81-2018            5-21-2018   Amending permitted loading/  Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                               unloading zones
                               Amending city parking
82-2018            5-21-2018   schedules for limited        Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking
                               Amending city parking
83-2018            5-21-2018   schedules regarding          Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               prohibited parking
84-2018            5-21-2018   Repealing Ord. 71-2018       Not included
                               Authorizing a memorandum of
                               understanding regarding
85-2018            5-21-2018   planning and funding         TSO IV
                               procedures for the Ashland
                               bus system
                               Amending a contract for the
86-2018            5-21-2018   Louisa Street water main     TSO IV
                               project
87-2018            6-14-2018   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               purchase of rock salt
88-2018            6-14-2018   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Fixing the regulatory
89-2018            6-24-2018   license fee from sale of     TSO XVII
                               alcoholic beverages
                               Authorizing a contract for
90-2018            6-14-2018   repair and painting of a     TSO VII
                               water storage tank
                               Approving a contract change
91-2018            6-14-2018   order for a storm water      TSO IV
                               separation project
                               Amending the policies and
92-2018            6-14-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the 2018 action plan to the
93-2018            6-14-2018   Department of Housing and    TSO IV
                               Urban Development for a
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Fixing tax levy for 2018 on
94-2018            6-25-2018   the bank deposits franchise  TSO XVIII
                               tax
                               Establishing regulations for 119.60;
95-2018            6-25-2018   food services, requiring     119.61;
                               hepatitis A inoculations     119.99
                               Amending the policies and
96-2018            6-25-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Accepting a proposal for
97-2018            6-25-2018   professional engineering and TSO VII
                               drafting services
                               Authorizing a contract for
98-2018            6-25-2018   the installation of a        TSO VII
                               playground
                               Authorizing a contract for
99-2018            6-25-2018   the removal and replacement  TSO VII
                               of a roof on a city building
100-2018           6-25-2018   Authorizing a School         TSO VII
                               Resource Officer agreement
101-2018           6-25-2018   Adopting the FY 2018-2019    Not included
                               budget
102-2018           6-28-2018   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               2018
                               Approving renewal with
103-2018           6-28-2018   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc.
                               (MEDBEN).
104-2018           6-28-2018   Amending budget for FY 2017- Not included
                               2018
                               Authorizing an agreement
105-2018           6-28-2018   with Community Assistance    TSO VII
                               Referral Service, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
106-2018           6-28-2018   with Boyd County Council on  TSO VII
                               Aging, Inc.
107-2018           6-28-2018   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with Hillcrest Bruce Mission
                               Authorizing an agreement
108-2018           6-28-2018   with the Ashland Child       TSO VII
                               Development Center, Inc.
109-2018           6-28-2018   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with shelter of Hope, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
110-2018           6-28-2018   with Ashland Community       TSO VII
                               Kitchen, Inc.
111-2018           6-28-2018   Approving loan No. 2018-ED-  TSO VII
                               001 to Alma s Italian, LLC
                               Approving loan No. 2018-ED-
112-2018           6-28-2018   002 to Bird Dog of the Tri-  TSO VII
                               State, d/b/a Advantaclean of
                               the Tri-State
                               Approving loan No. 2018-ED-
113-2018           6-28-2018   003 to Crossover Ventures,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
114-2018           6-28-2018   with Peoples Insurance       TSO VII
                               Agency, LLC
                               Authorizing a trust
                               participation agreement for
115-2018           6-28-2018   the Kentucky League of       TSO VII
                               Cities Insurance Services
                               General Insurance Trust for
                               FY 2018-2019
                               Amending the policies and
116-2018           6-29-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Adopting the Title VI
117-2018           7-26-2018   program for the Ashland Bus  TSO IV;
                               System; repealing Ord. 89-   TSO XVII
                               2009 and Ord. 89-2014
                               Authorizing an engineering
118-2018           7-26-2018   service contract with MSE of TSO VII
                               Kentucky, Inc.
                               Amending the prohibited
119-2018           7-26-2018   parking at all times         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               schedule
                               Authorizing short-term
                               rentals of parking spaces on
120-2018           7-26-2018   the city-owned parking lot   Not included
                               located on Greenup Avenue
                               between 15th and 16th
                               Streets
121-2018           8-9-2018    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Cosby Construction
122-2018           8-9-2018    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Morris Contracting Inc.
123-2018           8-9-2018    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Triple B Construction
                               Amending the policies and
124-2018           8-9-2018    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               as adopted by Ord. 51-2017
125-2018           8-9-2018    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               WB Hospitality, LLC
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 2 in the
126-2018           8-9-2018    contract with Mike Enyart &  TSO VII
                               Sons, Inc., adopted by Ord.
                               8-2018
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 3 in the
127-2018           8-9-2018    contract with Tri-State      TSO VII
                               Construction & Enterprise
                               LLC authorized by Ord. 77-
                               2017
128-2018           8-23-2018   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the FY 2018 grant
129-2018           8-23-2018   application to the Federal   TSO IV
                               Transit Administration for
                               the Ashland Bus System
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 in the
130-2018           8-23-2018   contract with Shield Roofing TSO VII
                               and Construction LLC adopted
                               by Ord. 99-2018
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit the annual Section 8
                               management assessment
131-2018           8-23-2018   program (SEMAP)              Not included
                               certification to the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development
                               Amending the policies and
132-2018           8-23-2018   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               as adopted by Ord. 51-2017
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 4 in the
133-2018           8-23-2018   contract with Tribute        TSO VII
                               Contracting & Construction,
                               LLC, adopted by Ord. 91-2018
                               Adopting the S-68, S-69 and
134-2018           9-13-2018   S-70 Supplements to the code Not included
                               of ordinances
135-2018           9-13-2018   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with JR Realty, Inc.
                               Authorizing a contract with
136-2018           9-13-2018   Network Innovation Solutions TSO VII
                               (NIS)
                               Authorizing an agreement
137-2018           9-27-2018   with Safe Harbor of          TSO VII
                               Northeast Kentucky, Inc.
138-2018           9-27-2018   Accepting a proposal of GRW  TSO VII
                               Engineers, Inc.
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               with Big Sandy Water
139-2018           9-27-2018   District to extend the       TSO VII
                               contract adopted by Ord. 77-
                               2013
                               Adopting the city s 2017
140-2018           9-27-2018   consolidated annual          Not included
                               performance evaluation
                               report (CAPER)
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 4 in the
141-2018           9-28-2018   contract with Tri-State      TSO VII
                               Construction & Enterprise
                               LLC authorized by Ord. 77-
                               2017
                               Amending the housing choice
142-2018           9-28-2018   voucher program 2018 annual  155.04
                               and administrative plan
                               adopted by Ord. 58-2018
                               Authorizing an agreement
143-2018           10-11-2018  with Graves West Virginia    TSO VII
                               Properties, LLC
144-2018           10-11-2018  Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Olive Hill Trucking, Inc.
                               Authorizing the submittal of
                               the analysis of impediments
                               to fair housing as required
145-2018           10-11-2018  by HUD to continue funding   155.04
                               of community development
                               block grant (CDBG) and
                               housing choice voucher (HCV)
                               programs in the city
                               Adopting the housing choice
                               voucher (HCV) program
146-2018           10-11-2018  payment standards for        155.04
                               Section 8 housing in the
                               city
                               Amending the policies and
147-2018           10-11-2018  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               as adopted by Ord. 51-2017
                               Authorizing a five-year
                               extension to the housing
                               assistance payments contract
148-2018           10-25-2018  with Harbor Hill, LLLP, for  155.04
                               housing choice voucher
                               program, adopted by Ord.
                               104-2009; repealing Ord. 55-
                               2018
                               Authorizing the submission
                               of an amended 2018 action
149-2018           10-25-2018  plan to the Department of    TSO IV
                               Housing and Urban
                               Development for a community
                               development block grant
                               Authorizing a public
150-2018           10-25-2018  transportation grant         TSO VII
                               agreement with the Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
151-2018           11-1-2018   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               with GRW Engineers, Inc.
                               Approving a change order
                               between the city and
152-2018           11-15-2018  Worldwide Industries Corp.,  TSO VII
                               for a contract regarding the
                               repair and painting of a
                               water tank
                               Approving a change order
                               between the city and Morris
153-2018           11-15-2018  Contracting regarding the    TSO VII
                               installation of up to 100
                               blow-off/flushing hydrants
                               Adopting the housing choice
154-2018           11-15-2018  voucher (HCV) program        155.04
                               utility allowance schedule
                               Amending regulations         92.01;
155-2018           11-15-2018  regarding consumer fireworks 92.04;
                                                            92.99
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract with
156-2018           11-15-2018  Arrow Electric Co., Inc.,    TSO VII
                               for the installation of a
                               traffic signal.
                               Adopting 2018 Kentucky
157-2018           11-15-2018  Building and Residential     151.01
                               Codes by reference;
                               repealing Ord. 116-2013
158-2018           11-15-2018  Amending building permit     151.17
                               fees
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement with
159-2018           11-15-2018  the Ashland City             TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706,
                               International Association of
                               Firefighters, AFL-CIO-CLC
                               Accepting the proposal of
                               Commonwealth Economics
160-2018           11-15-2018  Partners, LLC, for           TSO VII
                               consulting services for a
                               redevelopment project
161-2018           11-15-2018  Amending budget for FY 2018- Not included
                               2019
                               Approving a change order for
                               a contract with Morris
162-2018           11-29-2018  Contracting for the Debord   TSO VII
                               Terrace concrete and
                               handrail project
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement with
163-2018           11-29-2018  LJB Inc., for consulting     TSO VII
                               services regarding a lift
                               station renovation
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract with
164-2018           11-29-2018  Service Pump & Supply, Inc., TSO VII
                               for the purchase and
                               installation of equipment
                               Amending traffic schedule
165-2018           11-29-2018  relating to one-way traffic; TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 37, 2025
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.,
166-2018           11-29-2018  for the purchase of labor    TSO VII
                               and materials for tree
                               trimming for a two-year
                               period
167-2018           11-29-2018  Amending parking schedules   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               regarding two hour parking
                               Adopting amendment 8 for
                               city employees and amendment TSO V;
168-2018           11-29-2018  7 for the Fire Department    TSO VII
                               Union, Kentucky medical care
                               plan and summary plan
                               Establishing guidelines and
169-2018           11-29-2018  procedures for contributions TSO XVII
                               by the city; repealing Ord.
                               60-2018
                               Approving a change order to
                               a contract with Tri-State
170-2018           11-29-2018  Construction & Enterprise    TSO VII
                               LLC for a water distribution
                               and wastewater collection
                               facility
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               collective bargaining
171-2018           12-13-2018  agreement between the city   TSO V
                               and city police members,
                               Fraternal Order of Police,
                               Ashland Lodge #3
172-2018           12-13-2018  Police hiring regulations;   TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 71-2016
                               Amending the policies and
                               procedures, compensation
173-2018           12-13-2018  plan and classification plan Not included
                               as adopted by Ord. 51-2017,
                               as previously amended
                               Establishing procedural
                               regulations and prerequisite
174-2018           12-13-2018  qualifications for hiring    TSO XVII
                               within the Fire Department,
                               and repealing Ord. 73-2013
                               Approving a mediation
                               agreement and authorizing
                               the Mayor to execute a
175-2018           12-14-2018  quitclaim deed of conveyance TSO XIII
                               between the city and George
                               C. Borst III and Janetta C.
                               Borst regarding Pembroke
                               Place
                               Establishing the fee for the
                               purchase of a recycling
176-2018           12-14-2018  permit for use of the        54.10
                               Ashland Recycling Center by
                               nonresidents of the city
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a grant agreement
                               with WB Hospitality, LLC     TSO IV;
177-2018           12-14-2018  regarding the construction   TSO XVII
                               and financing of a hotel
                               redevelopment project, and
                               repealing Ord. 1-2018
                               Authorizing execution of
                               task order 2019-02 with HDR
1-2019             1-10-2019   Engineering, Inc., regarding TSO IV
                               the phase 2 storm water MS4
                               compliance report
                               Approving change order No. 3
                               regarding proposals for
2-2019             1-10-2019   drafting and design work for TSO IV
                               water distribution and sewer
                               maintenance facilities
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract for the removal and
3-2019             1-10-2019   disposition of sludge from   TSO VII
                               the city wastewater and
                               water treatment plants
                               Authorizing execution of a
4-2019             1-10-2019   contract for the             TSO VII
                               installation of security
                               cameras
                               Approving a change order
                               increasing the contact
5-2019             1-24-2019   amount and extending the     TSO IV
                               contract for the
                               installation of a fire alarm
                               system
                               Approving loan no. 2019-M-
                               001 to Kentucky Trophies LLC
6-2019             1-24-2019   d/b/a the Trophy House in    TSO VII
                               the amount of $25,000 for
                               the purchase of fixed
                               capital
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               contract for the purchase
                               and installation of fencing
                               for the Department of Public
7-2019             2-14-2019   Services and Utility         TSO VII
                               Operations, Division of
                               Water Distribution and
                               Wastewater Collection Mill
                               Street facility
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
8-2019             2-14-2019   and installation of a sewage TSO VII
                               station channel grinder
                               replacement project
                               Amending the authorized
9-2019             2-14-2019   positions of the policies    TSO VII
                               and procedures, compensation
                               plan and classification plan
                               Authorizing execution of a
10-2019            2-14-2019   contract for the abatement   TSO VII
                               of high grass and weeds on
                               residential lots in the city
                               Authorizing execution of a
11-2019            2-14-2019   deed of conveyance regarding TSO XIII
                               the donation of 11 lots
                               Authorizing execution of an
12-2019            2-14-2019   agreement regarding an       TSO VII
                               encroachment for a sign at
                               1516 Central Avenue
                               Authorizing the execution of
13-2019            2-14-2019   an agreement for             TSO VII
                               professional engineering
                               services
                               Amendment to Ord. 47-1982,
14-2019            2-14-2019   requiring application for    TSO VII
                               excavations in public
                               rights-of-way
                               Authorizing execution of a
                               mutual aid agreement between
15-2019            2-28-2019   the city, the Ashland Fire   TSO XI
                               Department, and the Tri-
                               State Airport Authority Fire
                               Rescue
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               task order #23 for the 2018
                               annual combined sewer
16-2019            2-28-2019   overflow reports for the     TSO IV
                               Department of Public
                               Services and Utility
                               Operations
                               Authorizing execution of a
17-2019            3-14-2019   contract for miscellaneous   TSO VII
                               concrete and asphalt repair
                               Authorizing execution of a
18-2019            3-14-2019   contract for renovations at  TSO VII
                               Safe Harbor of Northeast
                               Kentucky, Building #3
19-2019            3-14-2019   Amending the procurement     TSO XVII
                               regulations for the city
                               Requiring a fiscal note for
20-2019            3-14-2019   approval of expenditure of   37.007
                               city funds
                               Accepting a proposal to
                               provide professional
21-2019            3-14-2019   engineering and rate         TSO VII
                               development services for the
                               water and sewer systems
                               Accepting a proposal to
22-2019            3-14-2019   provide professional         TSO VII
                               engineering services for
                               replacement of waterlines
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
23-2019            3-14-2019   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan, regarding disciplinary
                               action
24-2019            3-14-2019   Adopting job descriptions    Not included
                               Authorizing execution of a
25-2019            3-14-2019   contract a suitable landfill TSO VII
                               location and for disposal of
                               garbage and refuse
26-2019            3-14-2019   Amending animals regulations TSO XVII
                               regarding investigations
                               Adopting Housing Choice
27-2019            3-28-2019   Voucher Program 2018 Annual  155.04
                               and Administrative Plan
                               Authorizing execution of a
28-2019            3-28-2019   bill of sale for the         TSO VII
                               purchase of a street light
                               system
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
29-2019            3-28-2019   of items for mastarms        TSO VII
                               installation for a
                               streetscape project
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
                               of certain chemicals for the
30-2019            3-28-2019   Department of Utilities,     TSO VII
                               Divisions of Water
                               Production and Wastewater
                               Treatment
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
31-2019            3-28-2019   of liquid polymer for the    TSO VII
                               water and wastewater
                               treatment plants
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
                               of chemicals for the
32-2019            3-28-2019   Department of Utilities,     TSO VII
                               Divisions of Wastewater
                               Treatment and Water
                               Production
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
33-2019            3-28-2019   of sand for the Department   TSO VII
                               of Utilities, Divisions of
                               Wastewater Treatment and
                               Water Production
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for purchase of
                               powdered activated carbon
34-2019            3-28-2019   for the Department of        TSO VII
                               Utilities, Divisions of
                               Wastewater Treatment and
                               Water Production
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for purchase of
                               liquid caustic soda for the
35-2019            3-28-2019   Department of Utilities,     TSO VII
                               Divisions of Wastewater
                               Treatment and Water
                               Production
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for purchase of
                               aluminum sulfate for the
36-2019            3-28-2019   Department of Utilities,     TSO VII
                               Divisions of Wastewater
                               Treatment and Water
                               Production
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract regarding a sewer
37-2019            3-28-2019   lining project for the       TSO VII
                               Department of Utilities,
                               Division of Wastewater
                               Collection
                               Providing a procedure for
                               reasonable accommodation in
38-2019            3-28-2019   the city s land use and      91.15;
                               zoning and building          91.22
                               regulations pursuant to fair
                               housing
                               Authorizing the execution of
39-2019            3-28-2019   a contract to refurbish and  TSO VII
                               reinstall a water intake
                               pump
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract regarding an
40-2019            3-28-2019   encroachment for parking and TSO VII
                               landscaping on the city s
                               right-of-way
41-2019            3-28-2019   Amending budget for FY 2018- Not included
                               2019
                               Authorizing the execution of
42-2019            4-11-2019   a contract for the removal   TSO VII
                               and replacement of an
                               underdrain
                               Authorizing the acceptance
43-2019            4-11-2019   of a proposal for the        TSO VII
                               purchase of a filter
                               underdrain
                               Authorizing the acceptance
44-2019            4-11-2019   of a proposal for a water    TSO VII
                               treatment plant filter
                               failure investigation
45-2019            4-11-2019   Adopting, amending and       Not included
                               adding job descriptions
                               Authorizing a change order
46-2019            4-11-2019   for a contract for           TSO VII
                               engineering and inspection
                               services
                               Authorizing and approving a
                               change order for a contract
47-2019            4-11-2019   for the purchase and         TSO VII
                               installation of an active
                               directory system
                               Authorizing the execution of
48-2019            4-11-2019   an amendment to a task order TSO VII
                               regarding the phase 2 storm
                               water MS4 compliance report
                               Establishing regulations     97.027;
49-2019            4-11-2019   regarding noxious weeds and  97.999
                               rank vegetation
50-2019            4-11-2019   Closing an unimproved        TSO XIV
                               portion of Cedar Street
                               Authorizing the execution of
51-2019            4-11-2019   a contract for the           TSO VII
                               renovation of a lift station
                               Authorizing the execution of
52-2019            4-11-2019   a contract for a waterline   TSO VII
                               replacement
                               Authorizing the execution of
53-2019            4-11-2019   a contribution in aid of     TSO VII
                               construction agreement for
                               electric system distribution
                               Authorizing the execution of
54-2019            4-11-2019   a contract for the repair    TSO VII
                               and painting of a water
                               storage tank
55-2019            4-25-2019   Adopting amendments to the   Not included
                               medical care plan
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the placement
56-2019            4-25-2019   and replacement of           TSO VII
                               bituminous asphalt material
                               for a street paving project
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a professional services
57-2019            4-25-2019   agreement for the            TSO VII
                               preparation of a
                               comprehensive plan
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for engineering
58-2019            4-25-2019   services for the coating,    TSO VII
                               painting and repairing of a
                               water storage tank
                               Amending the policies and
                               procedures, compensation
59-2019            4-25-2019   plan and classification plan Not included
                               to include a smoking/tobacco
                               use policy
                               Authorizing a change order
                               to increase the contract
60-2019            4-25-2019   amount for the installation  TSO VII
                               of fencing, gates and
                               appurtenances
                               Adopting by reference
61, 2019           4-25-2019   procurement regulations and  TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 87-1992
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contribution-in-aid- of-
62-2019            5-9-2019    construction agreement for   TSO VII
                               the installation of
                               underground service to
                               stoplights
                               Authorizing submission of
                               the FY 2019 grant
63-2019            5-9-2019    application to the Federal   TSO IV
                               Transit Administration for
                               the Ashland Bus System
                               Authorizing submission of
64-2019            5-9-2019    the 2019 action plan for a   TSO IV
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Accepting a proposal to
65-2019            5-9-2019    provide a human resources    TSO VII
                               system for the city
                               Authorizing the execution of
66-2019            5-9-2019    a contract regarding the     TSO VII
                               acceptance of the donation
                               of 3408 Central Avenue
67-2019            5-9-2019    Adopting revised job         Not included
                               description
                               Authorizing a change order
68-2019            5-21-2019   to increase the contract     TSO VII
                               amount for the Winchester
                               Avene streetscape project
                               Authorizing the execution of
69-2019            5-22-2019   a contract for the purchase  TSO VII
                               of rock salt
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contract for the purchase
70-2019            5-22-2019   and installation of exterior TSO VII
                               lighting for pickleball/
                               tennis courts
                               Authorizing the execution of
71-2019            5-22-2019   a contract for the           TSO VII
                               construction of road slips
                               Authorizing the execution of
72-2019            5-22-2019   a contract for the           TSO VII
                               replacement of playground
                               equipment
                               Fixing the regulatory
73-2019            5-22-2019   license fee from sale of     TSO XVIII
                               alcoholic beverages
                               Approving a change order to
74-2019            5-22-2019   the contract for renovations TSO VII
                               at Safe Harbor of Northeast
                               Kentucky
                               Approving a change order to
                               a contract for the
75-2019            5-22-2019   installation of security     TSO VII
                               cameras and monitoring
                               system
                               Approving renewal with
76-2019            5-22-2019   Medical Benefits             TSO VII
                               Administrators, Inc.
                               (MEDBEN)
77-2019            5-22-2019   Adopting the FY 2019-2020    Not included
                               budget
                               Authorizing the execution of
78-2019            5-22-2019   a software license agreement TSO VII
                               for a cloud-based software
                               solution
                               Authorizing the execution of
79-2019            6-6-2019    a contract for grout testing TSO VII
                               for water treatment plant
                               filters
80-2019            6-13-2019   Authorizing a School         TSO VII
                               Resource Officer agreement
                               Authorizing a professional
81-2019            6-13-2019   services agreement for a     TSO VII
                               cost of service study for
                               water and sewer systems
                               Authorizing a change order
                               to a contract for
82-2019            6-13-2019   refurbishing and re-         TSO VII
                               installing a water intake
                               pump
                               Authorizing a change order
83-2019            6-13-2019   to a streetscape project     TSO VII
                               contract
                               Authorizing a trust
                               participation agreement for
84-2019            6-13-2019   the Kentucky League of       TSO VII
                               Cities Insurance Services
                               General Insurance Trust for
                               FY 2019-2020
                               Authorizing the execution of
85-2019            6-13-2019   an agreement for insurance   TSO VII
                               and/or risk management
                               support services
                               Adopting the S-71, S-72 and
86-2019            6-13-2019   S-73 Supplements to the code Not included
                               of ordinances
87, 2019           6-13-2019   Amending procurement         TSO XVII
                               regulations
                               Authorizing a change order
88-2019            6-13-2019   to a contract for            TSO VII
                               engineering services
                               Authorizing a quitclaim deed
89-2019            6-13-2019   of conveyance for 3430       TSO XIII
                               Central Avenue
                               Authorizing the execution of
90-2019            6-13-2019   a voluntary disclosure       TSO VII
                               agreement for occupational
                               license fees
91-2019            6-13-2019   Amending FY 2018-2019 budget Not included
                               Authorizing an agreement for
92-2019            6-13-2019   reimbursement of utilities   TSO VII
                               and liability insurance
                               Authorizing an agreement for
93-2019            6-13-2019   reimbursement of operating   TSO VII
                               expenses and liability
                               insurance
                               Authorizing an agreement for
94-2019            6-13-2019   reimbursement of operating   TSO VII
                               expenses, food, supplies and
                               liability insurance
                               Authorizing an agreement
95-2019            6-13-2019   with Community Assistance    TSO VII
                               Referral Service, Inc., for
                               case manager staff salaries
                               Authorizing an agreement
96-2019            6-13-2019   with Hillcrest Bruce Mission TSO VII
                               for reimbursement of food
                               for a food pantry
                               Authorizing an agreement
97-2019            6-13-2019   with Shelter of Hope, Inc.,  TSO VII
                               for reimbursement of
                               operating expenses
98-2019            6-13-2019   Approving a loan to CCC      TSO VII
                               Management, LLC
99-2019            6-13-2019   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               2019
                               Executing an extension to a
100-2019           6-27-2019   housing assistance payments  TSO VII
                               contract
                               Authorizing the modification
101-2019           7-25-2019   of a parking space lease     TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Authorizing an engineering
102-2019           7-25-2019   services agreement for       TSO VII
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               expansion and improvements
103-2019           7-25-2019   Authorizing a contract for a TSO VII
                               concrete improvement program
                               Authorizing a change order
104-2019           7-25-2019   to a contract for a          TSO VII
                               waterline replacement
                               project
                               Authorizing a consulting
105-2019           7-25-2019   agreement regarding data     TSO VII
                               retention policies for the
                               city
                               Authorizing a contract for
106-2019           7-25-2019   labor, equipment and         TSO VII
                               materials to install filter
                               underdrain anchors
107, 2019          7-26-2019   Authorizing and approving    TSO VII
                               change order no. 2
                               Amending policies and
                               procedures, compensation
108, 2019          8-8-2019    plan and classification      Not included
                               plan, regarding disciplinary
                               action
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit the program year 2019
109, 2019          8-8-2019    amended action plan for a    TSO IV
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit the annual Section 8
110, 2019          8-8-2019    management assessment        TSO VII
                               program (SEMAP)
                               certification
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
111, 2019          8-8-2019    execute a utility keep cost  TSO VII
                               betterment agreement
                               Establishing the Ashland     35.27;
112, 2019          8-8-2019    Tourist and Convention       119.99;
                               Commission; repealing Ords.  TSO XVII
                               25-1982 and 8-1997
                               Approving an amended loan
113, 2019          8-8-2019    agreement with Tipton s      TSO VII
                               Traditions, LLC.
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 between
114, 2019          8-8-2019    the city and Southern Ohio   TSO XVII
                               Trenching & Excavating, Inc.
                               regarding the waterline
                               replacement
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreed order
                               between the city and the
115, 2019          8-22-2019   Commonwealth of Kentucky     TSO VII
                               Energy and Environment
                               Cabinet, authorizing the
                               payment of a civil penalty
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
116, 2019          8-22-2019   execute an amendment to the  TSO IV
                               grant agreement between the
                               city and WB Hospitality, LLC
                               Designating a handicapped
117, 2019          8-22-2019   parking spot on the east     Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               side of 16th Street in the
                               200 block
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
118, 2019          8-22-2019   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Bri-Den Roofing
119, 2019          8-22-2019   Repealing Ord. 21-1997       TSO XVII
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
120, 2019          8-22-2019   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Service Pump &
                               Supply, Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
121, 2019          8-22-2019   change order no. 1 between   TSO VII
                               the city and GRW Engineers,
                               Inc.
122, 2019          9-12-2019   Establishing the Ashland     35.21
                               Public Arts Council
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute task order no. 1
123, 2019          9-12-2019   between the city and LJB     TSO VII
                               Inc. regarding the waterline
                               replacement design
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute task order #1
124, 2019          9-12-2019   between the city and En      TSO VII
                               Engineering regarding the
                               renovation of Judd Plaza
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit the city s community
125, 2019          9-12-2019   development block grant 2018 TSO IV
                               consolidated annual
                               performance and evaluation
                               report (CAPER)
                               Prohibiting the carrying or
126, 2019          9-12-2019   possession of certain        130.17
                               specific items in the
                               Ashland City Building
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
127, 2019          9-12-2019   the city and Shield Roofing  TSO VII
                               and Construction, LLC for
                               roof replacement
                               Creating the position and
128, 2019          9-12-2019   adopting the job description Not included
                               of evidence clerk
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute task order #2
129, 2019          9-26-2019   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Howerton Engineering &
                               Surveying PLLC
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
130, 2019          9-26-2019   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Granite
                               Inliner, LLC
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
131, 2019          9-26-2019   execute a contract between   TSO VII
                               the city and Service Pump &
                               Supply, Inc.
132, 2019          9-26-2019   Amending the zoning map of   TSO XVI
                               the city
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
133, 2019          9-26-2019   execute an amended agreement TSO VII
                               between the city and GRW
                               Engineers, Inc.
                               Adopting the revised job
134, 2019          9-26-2019   description for various      Not included
                               positions
                               Repealing Ord. 114, 2019,
                               which approved a change
135, 2019          10-24-2019  order between the city and   TSO VII
                               Southern Ohio Trenching and
                               Excavating, Inc.
                               Authorizing a public
136, 2019          10-24-2019  transportation grant         TSO VII
                               agreement with the Kentucky
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Repealing Ord. 111, 2016
137, 2019          10-24-2019  adopting a fee schedule for  Not included
                               credit/debit card payments
                               Fixing tax levy for 2020 on
138, 2019          10-24-2019  the bank deposits franchise  TSO XVIII
                               tax
                               Authorizing a contract with
139, 2019          10-24-2019  Olive Hill Trucking, Inc.,   TSO VII
                               for the purchase of gravel,
                               stone and sand
                               Amending the medical care
140, 2019          10-24-2019  plan as adopted by Ord. 46-  Not included
                               2012
                               Amending regulations
141-2019           10-24-2019  regarding traffic flow for   TSO XVII
                               one-way streets and alleys;
                               repealed by Ord. 37, 2025
                               Granting a salary increase
142, 2019          10-25-2019  to certain city employees,   Not included
                               retroactive to June 30, 2019
                               Authorizing a contract with
143, 2019          10-25-2019  My Town TV to record,        TSO VII
                               broadcast and post City
                               Commission meetings
                               Authorizing an exception to
144, 2019          10-25-2019  the city salary chart,       Not included
                               retroactive to March 4, 2019
                               Authorizing a letter of
                               understanding with Roger
145, 2019          10-25-2019  Brooks International, Inc.,  TSO VII
                               for professional services to
                               create a fast-track
                               community action plan
146, 2019          11-15-2019  Prohibiting parking on       Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               certain streets
                               Authorizing a contract with
                               Marine Diving Services,
147, 2019          11-15-2019  Inc., for inspection         TSO VII
                               services and debris removal
                               at a water intake structure
                               Authorizing a contract with
148, 2019          11-15-2019  AWI for the purchase of      TSO VII
                               water treatment plant
                               equipment
                               Authorizing submission of
149, 2019          11-15-2019  the 2019 amended action plan TSO IV
                               for a community development
                               block grant
                               Accepting a proposal by
150, 2019          11-15-2019  Howerton Engineering &       TSO VII
                               Surveying PLLC, for
                               professional services
                               Approving a minority loan to
151, 2019          11-15-2019  Ashland Petro, Inc., to be   TSO IV
                               paid from a community
                               development block grant
                               Adopting the housing choice
152-2019           11-15-2019  voucher program revised      155.04
                               annual plan and the 2020A
                               administrative plan
                               Authorizing a contract with
153, 2019          11-15-2019  Guys Floor Covering, LLC for TSO VII
                               a flooring project
                               Authorizing a contract with
154, 2019          11-15-2019  Falcon Structures for the    TSO VII
                               purchase of equipment for a
                               police substation project
                               Adopting revised job
155, 2019          12-12-2019  descriptions for various     Not included
                               positions
                               Authorizing a change order
156, 2019          12-13-2019  to a contract with Shield    TSO VII
                               Roofing and Construction LLC
                               for a roof replacement
157, 2019          12-13-2019  Employee assistance program  TSO VII
                               management agreement
                               Authorizing an amended
                               agreement with Community
158, 2019          12-13-2019  Assistance Referral Service, TSO VII
                               Inc., for case manager staff
                               salaries
                               Authorizing an agreement for
159, 2019          12-13-2019  resurfacing/repairing of     TSO VII
                               various streets
160, 2019          12-13-2019  Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Authorizing a contract with
161, 2019          12-13-2019  Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc.,    TSO VII
                               for sludge removal
                               Authorizing a contract with
162, 2019          12-13-2019  Debcon, Inc., for a          TSO VII
                               renovation project
                               Authorizing a contract for
163, 2019          12-13-2019  the purchase and             TSO VII
                               installation of playground
                               equipment
                               Authorizing a contract for
164, 2019          12-13-2019  the purchase and             TSO VII
                               installation of playground
                               equipment
                               Authorizing a contract for a
165, 2019          12-13-2019  storm water, curb, gutter,   TSO VII
                               sidewalk, paving and
                               waterline project
166, 2019          12-13-2019  Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               excavation services
                               Authorizing a facility
1, 2020            1-23-2020   encroachment agreement for a TSO VII
                               waterline project
2, 2020            1-23-2020   Amending the FY 2019-2020    Not included
                               budget
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a general warranty deed of
                               conveyance regarding the
3, 2020            1-23-2020   purchase of property for a   TSO VII
                               project for the Department
                               of Community and Economic
                               Development
4, 2020            1-23-2020   Adopting job descriptions    Not included
                               for various positions
                               Authorizing execution of a
5, 2020            1-24-2020   task order for annual        TSO VII
                               combined sewer overflow
                               reports
                               Approving change orders
6, 2020            1-24-2020   regarding the Ashland sub-   TSO VII
                               station site preparation
                               Approving a change order
7, 2020            1-24-2020   regarding labor and material TSO VII
                               for the Ashland Senior
                               Center flooring project
                               Amending an ordinance
8, 2020            1-24-2020   authorizing the placement of Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               stop signs within the city
9, 2020            1-24-2020   Designating an handicap      Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               parking space
10-2020            1-24-2020   Designating a loading zone   Ch. 75, Sch. IV
11, 2020           1-24-2020   Amending the zoning map      TSO XVI
                               Approving a change order
12, 2020           2-28-2020   between the city and Womack  TSO VII
                               Excavating, LLC
                               Approving a change order
                               between the city and Debcon,
13, 2020           2-28-2020   Inc., increasing the         TSO VII
                               contract amount for a
                               renovation project
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contribution-in-aid- of-
14, 2020           2-28-2020   construction agreement for   TSO VII
                               an electric distribution
                               service
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contribution-in-aid- of-
15, 2020           2-28-2020   construction agreement for   TSO VII
                               an electric distribution
                               service
                               Authorizing the execution of
                               a contribution-in-aid- of-
16,2020            2-28-2020   construction agreement for   TSO VII
                               an electric distribution
                               service
                               Authorizing a contract
                               between the city and Boyd
17, 2020           2-28-2020   County Sanitary Landfill,    TSO VII
                               Inc., (Rumpke) for the
                               receipt and disposal of
                               garbage
                               Approving a contract for
18, 2020           3-26-2020   supplies for water and       TSO VII
                               wastewater treatment
                               Approving contract for
19, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of chemicals for    TSO VII
                               Department of Utilities
                               Approving contract for
20, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of chemicals for    TSO VII
                               Department of Utilities
                               Approving contract for
21, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of liquid polymer   TSO VII
                               for water treatment plant
                               Approving contract for
22, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of chemicals for    TSO VII
                               the Department of Utilities
                               Approving contract for the
23, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of sand for the     TSO VII
                               Department of Utilities
                               Approving a contract for the
24, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of liquid caustic   TSO VII
                               soda for the Department of
                               Utilities
                               Approving a contract for the
25, 2020           3-26-2020   purchase of aluminum sulfate TSO VII
                               for the Department of
                               Utilities
                               Approving a contract in
26, 2020           3-26-2020   conjunction with the street  TSO VII
                               paving program
27, 2020           3-26-2020   Authorizing a change order   TSO VII
                               regarding sewer lining
                               Authorizing a contract
28, 2020           3-26-2020   related to concrete and      TSO VII
                               asphalt repair work
29, 2020           3-26-2020   Authorizing a change order   TSO VII
                               on a contract
30, 2020           4-9-2020    Meeting time for scheduled   30.06
                               meetings
                               Amendment of section
31, 2020           4-9-2020    regarding a policy providing 31.100
                               for the submission of grant
                               applications
32, 2020           4-9-2020    Authorizing a change order   TSO VII
                               on a contract
33, 2020           4-9-2020    Authorizing an amended       TSO IV
                               action plan
34, 2020           4-9-2020    Analysis of impediments to   TSO IV
                               fair housing
35, 2020           4-9-2020    Adopting PHA five-year plan  TSO IV
36, 2020           4-9-2020    Adopting 2020 CDBG plan      TSO XVII
37, 2020           4-9-2020    Adopting 2020-2024 CDBG      TSO XVII
                               consolidated plan
38, 2020           4-9-2020    Adopting housing choice      155.04
                               voucher program
39, 2020           4-9-2020    Approving a change order     TSO IV
40, 2020           4-9-2020    Approving change orders      TSO IV
41, 2020           4-9-2020    Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Orders Construction Company
42, 2020           4-23-2020   Adopting medical care plan   Not included
43, 2020           4-23-2020   Grant application to Federal Not included
                               Transit Administration
44, 2020           4-23-2020   Accepting proposal for water TSO VII
                               quality study
45, 2020           4-23-2020   Program year 2019 amended    TSO IV
                               action plan
46, 2020           4-23-2020   Adopting CDBG plan;          TSO IV
                               repealing Ord. 36, 2020
47, 2020           4-23-2020   Adopting CDBG plan;          TSO IV;
                               repealing Ord. 37, 2020      TSO XVII
48, 2020           5-7-2020    Authorizing issuance of      TSO III
                               revenue bonds
49, 2020           5-7-2020    Adopting amendment to        Not included
                               medical care plan
50, 2020           5-14-2020   Approving change order       TSO IV
51, 2020           5-14-2020   Approving change order       TSO IV
52, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
53, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
54, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
55, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
56, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
57, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
58, 2020           5-14-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
                               Amendment to task order
59, 2020           5-27-2020   regarding storm water        TSO IV
                               compliance
60, 2020           5-27-2020   Approving change order       TSO IV
                               regarding renovation project
61, 2020           5-27-2020   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
62, 2020           5-28-2020   Agreement regarding Section  TSO IV
                               8 voucher program
63, 2020           5-28-2020   Authorizing an agreement;    TSO IX
                               repealing Ord. 103, 2017.
                               Authorizing a change order
64, 2020           6-11-2020   on contract for community    TSO IV
                               center project
                               Authorizing a change order
65, 2020           6-11-2020   on contract for community    TSO IV
                               center project
66, 2020           6-11-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
67, 2020           6-11-2020   Agreement regarding property TSO VII
                               and casualty insurance
68, 2020           6-11-2020   Agreement related to water   TSO VII
                               treatment plant
69, 2020           6-18-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
70, 2020           6-18-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
71, 2020           6-18-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
72, 2020           6-18-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
73, 2020           6-18-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
74, 2020           6-18-2020   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
                               Approving change order on
75, 2020           6-18-2020   contract regarding community TSO IV
                               center project
76, 2020           6-18-2020   Adopting Covid 19 housing    155.04
                               voucher waiver policy
77, 2020           6-18-2020   Authorizing amendment to     TSO VII
                               flexible benefit plan
                               Authorizing agreement for
78, 2020           6-18-2020   property and liability       TSO VII
                               insurance
79, 2020           6-18-2020   Authorizing contract for     TSO VII
                               rental of work uniforms
                               Amending an ordinance
80, 2020           6-18-2020   regarding the discharge of a 130.16
                               toy gun
                               Amending an ordinance
81, 2020           6-18-2020   prohibiting the discharge of 130.15
                               a firearm and providing an
                               exception
82, 2020           6-25-2020   Adopting 2020-2021 budget    Not included
83, 2020           6-25-2020   Fixing the license fee for   TSO XVIII
                               alcoholic beverages
84, 2020           6-25-2020   Fixing tax levy for the year TSO XVIII
                               2020
                               Authorizing an agreement
85, 2020           6-25-2020   regarding protected health   TSO VII
                               information
                               Authorizing an agreement
                               regarding health flexible
86, 2020           6-25-2020   spending, dependent care     TSO VII
                               program and health
                               reimbursement arrangement
                               Authorizing contract
87, 2020           6-25-2020   regarding COBRA              TSO VII
                               administration
                               Authorizing a group health
88, 2020           6-25-2020   business agreement with      TSO VII
                               Anthem
                               Authorizing an agreement
89, 2020           6-25-2020   regarding city s group       TSO VII
                               health plan
90, 2020           6-25-2020   Establish line of credit for Not included
                               operational expenses
                               Authorizing increase in
91, 2020           6-25-2020   pension fund for police and  Not included
                               fire
92, 2020           6-25-2020   Authorizing increase in      Not included
                               utility pension fund
                               Authorizing a contract with
93, 2020           6-25-2020   Ashland-Boyd County Health   TSO VII
                               Department for vaccines
                               Repealing parts of the
94, 2020           6-25-2020   policies and procedures,     Not included
                               compensation plan
95, 2020           6-26-2020   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               rock salt
                               Authorizing a change order
96, 2020           6-26-2020   on contract regarding water  TSO VII
                               treatment plant
97, 2020           6-26-2020   Adopting comprehensive plan; 156.01
                               repealing Ord. 103, 2013
                               Authorizing change order on
98, 2020           6-26-2020   contract regarding           TSO IV
                               renovation project
99, 2020           6-26-2020   Adopting medical care plan   Not included
100, 2020          6-26-2020   Adopting medical care plan   Not included
101, 2020          6-26-2020   Adopting medical care plan   Not included
102, 2020          6-26-2020   Establishing premium rates   Not included
                               for medical care plan
103, 202           6-26-2020   Establishing premium rates   Not included
                               for medical care plan
104, 2020          6-26-2020   Establishing premium rates   Not included
                               for medical care plan
105, 2020          6-26-2020   Establishing premium rates   TSO XVII
                               for medical care plan
106, 2020          6-26-2020   Amending the budget          Not included
                               ordinance
107, 2020          7-22-2020   Authorizing contract for     TSO VII
                               water replacement project
108, 2020          8-13-2020   Authorizing amendment        TSO IV
                               related to block grant funds
109, 2020          8-13-2020   Authorizing amendment        TSO IV
                               related to block grant funds
110, 2020          8-13-2020   Authorizing amendment        TSO IV
                               related to block grant funds
                               Authorizing contract for
111, 2020          8-13-2020   waterline replacement        TSO VII
                               project
112, 2020          8-13-2020   Authorizing contract for     TSO VII
                               storm drain project
113, 2020          8-13-2020   Approving change order for a TSO VII
                               contract
114, 2020          8-13-2020   Amending agreement with      TSO V
                               Fraternal Order of Police
115, 2020          8-13-2020   Adopting job descriptions    Not included
                               Approving change order for
116, 2020          8-13-2020   contract concerning repairs  TSO VII
                               and sewer cleaning
117, 2020          8-27-2020   Authorizing an agreement     TSO VII
                               related to city water system
                               Authorizing change order for
118, 2020          8-27-2020   16th Street Plaza renovation TSO VII
                               project
119, 2020          8-27-2020   Authorizing a School         TSO VII
                               Resource Officer agreement
120, 2020          8-27-2020   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
121, 2020          8-27-2020   Golf carts, utility vehicles 71.10
                               and all-terrain vehicles
                               Renaming Judd Plaza as
122, 2020          8-27-2020   Broadway Square and          TSO XV
                               repealing Ord. 140-1990
123, 2020          8-27-2020   Naming an area of the city   TSO XV
                               The District
                               Authorizing an agreement
124, 2020          8-27-2020   regarding the leasing of     TSO VII
                               parking spaces
125, 2020          8-27-2020   Loading/unloading zones      Ch. 75, Sch. IV
126, 2020          8-27-2020   Disabled parking spaces      Ch. 75, Sch. III
127, 2020          9-10-2020   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               related to block grant funds
128, 2020          9-10-2020   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               related to block grant funds
129, 2020          9-10-2020   Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               related to block grant funds
                               Authorizing change order for
130, 2020          9-10-2020   Pollard Mills drainage       TSO VII
                               improvement project
131, 2020          9-10-2020   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
                               Authorizing a contract for
132, 2020          9-11-2020   Debord Terrace sidewalk,     TSO XVII
                               stairs and handrail project
                               Adopting public
133, 2020          9-11-2020   transportation agency safety Not included
                               plan
134, 2020          9-11-2020   Fixing ad valorem tax levy   TSO XVIII
                               for the year 2020
                               Authorizing a contract for
135, 2020          9-25-2020   the CIPP Point repairs       TSO VII
                               project
                               Authorizing change order
136, 2020          9-25-2020   related to 16th Street Plaza TSO VII
                               renovation project
137, 2020          9-25-2020   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan.
                               Authorizing a contract for
138, 2020          - -         the Summit Tank              TSO VII
                               rehabilitation project
                               Authorizing change order for
139, 2020          10-22-2020  waterline replacement        TSO VII
                               project
140, 2020          10-23-2020  Authorizing a contract       TSO IV;
                               related to block grant funds TSO XVII
141, 2020          10-23-2020  Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               tree trimming
                               Authorizing a contract for
142, 2020          10-23-2020  the purchase of gravel,      TSO VII
                               stone and sand
143, 2020          10-23-2020  Housing choice voucher       155.04
                               program
144, 2020          10-23-2020  Housing choice voucher       155.04
                               program
                               Authorizing amendment to an
145, 2020          10-23-2020  agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant-CV funds
146, 2020          10-23-2020  Authorizing an agreement     TSO IV
                               related to assisted housing
                               Authorizing change order for
147, 2020          10-28-2020  filter underdrain and media  TSO IV
                               replacement project
                               Authorizing change order for
148, 2020          10-28-2020  Summit Tank rehabilitation   TSO VII
                               project
                               Authorizing change order for
149, 2020          11-20-2020  Pollard Mills drainage       TSO VII
                               improvement project
150, 2020          11-20-2020  Authorizing change order for TSO VII
                               CIPP Point repairs project
                               Authorizing change order for
151, 2020          11-20-2020  water treatment plant        TSO VII
                               project
                               Authorizing change order for
152, 2020          11-20-2020  Summit Tank rehabilitation   TSO VII
                               project
153, 2020          11-20-2020  Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
154, 2020          11-20-2020  Parking prohibitions         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               Authorizing change order for
155, 2020          11-20-2020  removal of sludge from       TSO VII
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               Authorizing addendum to
156, 2020          11-20-2020  engineering services         TSO VII
                               agreement
                                                            97.130;
157, 2020          11-20-2020  Special event ordinance;     97.140;
                               repealing Ord. 56-2009       97.999;
                                                            TSO XVII
                                                            96.02;
                               Rules and regulations for    96.03;
158, 2020          11-20-2020  the use of city parks        96.08;
                                                            96.09;
                                                            96.11
                               Rules and regulations for    96.25;
                               the use of the Port of       96.29;
159, 2020          11-20-2020  Ashland, Riverfront Park;    96.99;
                               repealing Ords. 99-2010, 97- TSO XVII
                               2013 and 30-2018
160, 2020          11-20-2020  Authorizing phase 2 of       TSO IV
                               apartment project
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               submit the city s community
161, 2020          12-11-2020  development block grant      TSO IV
                               consolidated annual
                               performance and evaluation
                               report (CAPER)
162, 2020          12-11-2020  Authorizing phase 3 of       TSO IV
                               apartment project
                               Authorizing a contract for
163, 2020          12-11-2020  the installation of carbon   TSO VII
                               fiber laminate on a pipe at
                               the water treatment plant
                               Authorizing a contract for
164, 2020          12-11-2020  the removal and installation TSO VII
                               of lamella modules at the
                               water treatment plant
                               Amending Section 8
1, 2021            1-28-2021   certificate and housing      155.04
                               voucher programs
                               Executing a task order
2, 2021            1-28-2021   between the city and Strand  TSO VII
                               Associates, Inc.
3, 2021            1-28-2021   Purchase agreement with      TSO VII
                               Sutphen Corporation
                               Adopting civil rights        TSO IV;
4, 2021            1-28-2021   assurance for bus system;    TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 117-2018
                               Change order to contract
5, 2021            1-28-2021   with May Construction Co.,   TSO VII
                               Inc.
                               Change order to contract
6, 2021            1-28-2021   with Tribute Contracting and TSO VII
                               Consultants LLC
                               Designating a loading/
7, 2021            1-28-2021   unloading zone in the 1600   Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                               block of Greenup Avenue
                                                            111.001;
                                                            111.006;
                               Establishing regulations for 111.020;
8, 2021            1-28-2021   sale of alcoholic beverages; 111.039;
                               repealing Ord. 59-2018       111.050;
                                                            111.062;
                                                            111.075;
                                                            111.999
9, 2021            1-29-2021   Approving phase 4 regarding  TSO IV
                               voucher housing development
10, 2021           1-29-2021   Amendment to agreement with  TSO IV
                               the Salvation Army
11, 2021           1-29-2021   Continued employment         TSO VII
                               agreement for City Manager
                               Grant application to the
12, 2021           1-29-2021   Federal Transit              TSO XI
                               Administration
13, 2021           2-25-2021   Authorizing change order for TSO VII
                               pipe repair project
                               Authorizing amendment to
14, 2021           2-25-2021   engineering services for     TSO VII
                               water treatment plant
                                                            50.021;
15, 2021           2-25-2021   Amending sewer provisions    50.028;
                                                            50.118
16, 2021           2-26-2021   Authorizing phase 5 of       TSO IV
                               apartment project
17, 2021           2-26-2021   Approving change order to    TSO VII
                               construction contract
18, 2021           2-26-2021   Agreement with Kentucky      TSO XI
                               Transportation Cabinet
                               Agreement regarding
19, 2021           3-25-2021   electrical engineering       TSO VII
                               design services for water
                               pump station
20, 2021           3-25-2021   Zoning map change            TSO XVI
21, 2021           3-25-2021   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               garbage disposal
                               Authorizing a contract for
22, 2021           3-25-2021   the purchase of aluminum     TSO VII
                               sulfate
                               Authorizing a contract for
23, 2021           3-25-2021   the purchase of potassium    TSO VII
                               permanganate
24, 2021           3-25-2021   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the purchase of sand
25, 2021           3-25-2021   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               liquid polymer
                               Authorizing a contract for
26, 2021           3-25-2021   chemicals for water          TSO VII
                               production and wastewater
                               treatment
                               Authorizing a contract for
27, 2021           3-25-2021   chemicals for water          TSO VII
                               production and wastewater
                               treatment
28, 2021           3-25-2021   Granting funds to Tourism    TSO IV
                               Commission
29, 2021           3-25-2021   Agreement for computer       TSO VII
                               services
                               Authorizing work order
30, 2021           3-25-2021   concerning software          TSO VII
                               licensing
31, 2021           4-8-2021    Agreement with Kentucky      TSO XI
                               Transportation Cabinet
32, 2021           4-8-2021    Agreement with Kentucky      TSO XI
                               Transportation Cabinet
33, 2021           4-8-2021    Revised job description      Not included
                               Executing amendment to
34, 2021           4-12-2021   agreement for water pump     TSO VII
                               station generator
                               installation project
35, 2021           4-12-2021   Authorizing phase 6 of       TSO IV
                               apartment project
36, 2021           4-12-2021   Submitting grant application TSO IV
                               for bus system
                               Approving change orders 2
37, 2021           4-12-2021   and 3 for construction       TSO VII
                               contract
38, 2021           4-12-2021   Designating 15-minute        Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking spaces
39, 2021           4-12-2021   Agreement concerning website TSO VII
                               services
40, 2021           4-22-2021   Granting increase to         Not included
                               employees
41, 2021           4-22-2021   Amending salary chart        Not included
42, 2021           4-23-2021   Submitting 2021 action plan  TSO IV
                               for CDBG
43, 2021           4-23-2021   Adopting CDBG plan and       TSO IV
                               repealing Ord. 47
                               Access agreement concerning
44, 2021           4-23-2021   future expansion of          TSO VII
                               wastewater treatment plant
45, 2021           4-23-2021   Contract for rock salt for   TSO VII
                               streets
46, 2021           4-23-2021   Agreement concerning         TSO VII
                               insurance
47, 2021           4-23-2021   Approving change order on    TSO VII
                               contract
48, 2021           4-23-2021   Revised job description      Not included
49, 2021           4-23-2021   Authorizing amended agreed   TSO VII
                               order
                               Authorizing contract for
50, 2021           4-23-2021   removal of sludge from water TSO VII
                               treatment plant
                               Occupational license fee;    115.01;
51, 2021           4-23-2021   repealing Ord. 155, 2007     115.13;
                                                            TSO XVII
52, 2021           4-23-2021   Authorizing a contract with  TSO VII
                               Guys Flooring, LLC
53, 2021           4-23-2021   Authorizing phase 7 of       TSO IV
                               apartment project
54, 2021           5-24-2021   Agreement related to block   TSO IV
                               grant funds
                               Change order no. 2 to a
55, 2021           5-24-2021   contract regarding a         TSO VII
                               waterline replacement
                               project
56, 2021           5-24-2021   Change order no. 4 to a      TSO VII
                               construction contract
                               Authorizing a contract for
57, 2021           5-24-2021   the purchase of reagentless  TSO VII
                               chlorine analyzers
58, 2021           5-24-2021   Authorizing a contract to    TSO VII
                               provide various vaccines
59, 2021           5-24-2021   Authorizing an agreement for TSO VII
                               inspection services
60, 2021           5-24-2021   Amending a housing           TSO VII
                               assistance payments contract
61, 2021           5-24-2021   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               the repair of a FLYGT pump
62, 2021           5-24-2021   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
63, 2021           5-24-2021   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               replacement pumps
                               Authorizing a contract for
64, 2021           5-24-2021   the purchase of station      TSO VII
                               controls
65, 2021           5-24-2021   Housing choice voucher       155.04
                               program
                               Change order to an agreement
66, 2021           5-24-2021   regarding the purchase of a  TSO VII
                               fire rescue vehicle
                               Changing the name of part of
67, 2021           5-25-2021   15th Street to Steve Gilmore TSO XV
                               Way
68, 2021           5-27-2021   Issuance of general          TSO III
                               obligation bonds
                               Renewal of agreement with
69, 2021           5-27-2021   Anthem Blue Cross/Blue       TSO VII
                               Shield Insurance for
                               administrative fees
70, 2021           6-10-2021   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
                               Adopting cellular antenna    157.295;
71, 2021           6-10-2021   tower and small cell tower   157.302
                               regulations
                               Establishing regulations     101.01;
72, 2021           6-10-2021   regarding chronic nuisance   101.09;
                               properties                   101.99
                               Requiring registration of
73, 2021           6-10-2021   residential housing units;   TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 58, 2024
                               Authorizing an agreement to
74, 2021           6-10-2021   record, broadcast and post   TSO VII
                               City Commission meetings
75, 2021           6-11-2021   Change order no. 5 to a      TSO VII
                               construction contract
                               Authorizing a contract for
76, 2021           6-11-2021   concrete and asphalt repair  TSO VII
                               work
                               Accepting a proposal to
77, 2021           6-11-2021   provide exterior inspection  TSO VII
                               services
78, 2021           6-11-2021   Adding permanent stop signs  Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               Authorizing a contract for
79, 2021           6-11-2021   the installation of eight    TSO VII
                               slurry (sand) pumps
                               Authorizing a contract to
80, 2021           6-11-2021   provide a public drop box    TSO VII
                               recycling service
81, 2021           6-11-2021   Agreement related to         TSO IV
                               encroachment permit
82, 2021           6-11-2021   Authorizing a contract for   TSO VII
                               roof replacement
83, 2021           6-24-2021   Adopting the 2021-2022       Not included
                               budget
84, 2021           6-24-2021   Fixing bank deposits         TSO XVIII
                               franchise tax levy for 2021
85, 2021           6-24-2021   Fixing the license fee for   TSO XVIII
                               alcoholic beverages
86, 2021           6-21-2021   Repealing Ord. 169-2018      TSO XVII
87, 2021           6-24-2021   Establishing premium rates   Not included
                               for medical care plan
88, 2021           6-24-2021   Establishing premium rates   Not included
                               for medical care plan
                               Establishing premium rates
89, 2021           6-24-2021   for medical care plan and    TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 105, 2020
90, 2021           6-24-2021   Adopting medical care plan   Not included
                               summary of benefits
91, 2021           6-24-2021   Amending parts of            Not included
                               compensation plan
92, 2021           6-25-2021   Authorizing a School         TSO VII
                               Resource Officer agreement
                               Change order No. 4 to a
93, 2021           6-25-2021   contract related to the      TSO VII
                               lining of the U.S. 23 sewer
                               line
                               Authorizing a contract for
94, 2021           6-25-2021   the purchase of 12 standby   TSO VII
                               power generators
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
95, 2021           6-25-2021   submit the 2019 CDBG annual  TSO IV
                               action plan substantial
                               amendment #2
                               Adopting the 2020-2024 CDBG
                               consolidated plan and
96, 2021           6-25-2021   program year 2020 action     TSO IV
                               plan substantial amendment
                               #1
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
97, 2021           6-25-2021   submit the 2021 CDBG annual  TSO IV
                               action plan substantial
                               amendment #1
98, 2021           6-25-2021   Approving phase 8 of         TSO IV
                               apartment project
99, 2021           6-25-2021   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for 2021
100, 2021          6-25-2021   Accepting a proposal for     TSO VII
                               life and AD&D insurance
101, 2021          6-28-2021   Authorizing an engineering   TSO VII
                               services agreement
102, 2021          6-28-2021   Authorizing an agreement to  TSO VII
                               provide engineering services
103, 2021          6-28-2021   Authorizing a contract to    TSO VII
                               install playground equipment
104, 2021          6-28-2021   Amending the salary chart    Not included
105, 2021          6-28-2021   Amending agreement with      TSO V
                               Fraternal Order of Police
106, 2021          6-28-2021   Amending the 2020-2021       Not included
                               budget
107, 2021          7-8-2021    Franchise granted to         TSO X
                               Kentucky Power Company
108, 2021          7-22-2021   Agreement with Ashland City  TSO V
                               firefighters, Local 706
109, 2021          8-12-2021   Contract with Best Equipment TSO VII
                               Co., Inc.
110, 2021          8-12-2021   Contract for street paving   TSO IV
                               program
111, 2021          8-12-2021   Agreement for engineering    TSO VII
                               services for design
                               Adopting the policies and
112, 2021          8-12-2021   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               and repealing Ord. 51-2017
113, 2021          8-12-2021   Contract for resurfacing     TSO VII
                               tennis courts
114, 2021          8-12-2021   Change order for             TSO VII
                               construction contract
115, 2021          8-26-2021   Zoning text amendments       157.003;
                                                            157.207
116, 2021          8-26-2021   Zoning text amendments       157.183
117, 2021          8-26-2021   Agreement for engineering    TSO VII
                               services for design
118, 2021          8-26-2021   Franchise granted to         TSO X
                               Kentucky Power Company
119, 2021          8-26-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
120, 2021          8-26-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
121, 2021          8-26-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
122, 2021          8-26-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
123, 2021          8-26-2021   Agreement for engineering    TSO VII
                               services for design
124, 2021          9-9-2021    Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
125, 2021          9-9-2021    Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
126, 2021          9-9-2021    Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
127, 2021          9-9-2021    Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
                               Contract for raw water
128, 2021          9-9-2021    intake pump removal and      TSO VII
                               reinstallation
129, 2021          9-9-2021    Contract for waterline       TSO VII
                               replacement project phase 2
130, 2021          9-9-2021    Public transportation grant  TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Amending the policies and
131, 2021          9-9-2021    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
132, 2021          9-10-2021   Contract to provide IT       TSO VII
                               services to the city
                               Amending the policies and
133, 2021          9-10-2021   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
134, 2021          9-10-2021   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Submission of CDBG Annual
135, 2021          9-10-2021   action plan substantial      TSO IV
                               amendment #2
136, 2021          9-10-2021   Adopting 2020-2024 CDBG      TSO IV
                               consolidated plan
137, 2021          9-10-2021   Contract for repair of 10th  TSO VII
                               and 18th Street outfalls
138, 2021          9-10-2021   Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               CARES
139, 2021          9-10-2021   Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               Ashland Community Kitchen
140, 2021          9-10-2021   Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               Hillcrest Bruce Mission
141, 2021          9-10-2021   Contract with Safe Harbor    TSO VII
                               Amendment to agreement
142, 2021          9-10-2021   between city and the Shelter TSO VII
                               of Hope
                               Building inspector services
143, 2021          9-10-2021   agreement with JGM           TSO VII
                               Consulting, LLC
144, 2021          10-14-2021  Amending time for Board of   30.06
                               Commissioners meetings
145, 2021          10-14-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
146, 2021          10-14-2021  Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               Ashland Community Kitchen
147, 2021          10-14-2021  Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               Boyd County Council on Aging
148, 2021          10-14-2021  Agreement with CARES about   TSO VII
                               CDBG funds
149, 2021          10-14-2021  Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               Bruce Hill Mission
150, 2021          10-14-2021  Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               the Salvation Army
151, 2021          10-14-2021  Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               the Salvation Army
152, 2021          10-14-2021  Amending agreement with      TSO IV
                               Ashland Community Kitchen
153, 2021          10-14-2021  Amendment to agreement with  TSO VII
                               Shelter of Hope
154, 2021          10-14-2021  Music performance license    TSO VII
                               agreement
                               Lease and service agreement  TSO VII;
155, 2021          10-14-2021  with Safe Haven Baby Boxes,  TSO XVII
                               Inc.
156, 2021          10-14-2021  Executing a highway safety   TSO IV
                               grant application
                               Adopting the S-74, S-75, S-
157, 2021          10-15-2021  76, S-77, S-78, S-79, S- 80  Not included
                               and S-81 Supplements to the
                               code of ordinances
158, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
159, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
160, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
161, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
162, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
163, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
164, 2021          10-15-2021  Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
                               Contract for purchase/
165, 2021          10-15-2021  upgrade of the Mission Scada TSO VII
                               System with on-site training
                               and startup
                               Adopting housing choice
166, 2021          10-15-2021  voucher program payment      TSO IV
                               standards
                               Contract with G20
167, 2021          10-15-2021  Technologies, LLC for        TSO VII
                               purchase of poly-aluminum
                               chloride (PAC)
168, 2021          10-15-2021  Amending one-way streets;    TSO XVII
                               repealed by Ord. 37, 2025
169, 2021          10-15-2021  Prohibiting parking on       Not included
                               certain streets
170, 2021          10-15-2021  Police hiring regulations;   TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 172, 2018
171, 2021          11-9-2021   Contract for placement of    TSO VII
                               bituminous asphalt material
                               Executing an agreement with
172, 2021          11-18-2021  the Kentucky Transportation  TSO IV
                               Cabinet
173, 2021          11-18-2021  Contract for purchase of     TSO VII
                               gravel, stone and sand
174, 2021          11-18-2021  Executing an agreement with  TSO IV
                               UK King s Daughters
                               Closing an unimproved
175, 2021          11-18-2021  portion of an unimproved     TSO XIV
                               alley
176, 2021          11-18-2021  Amending sewer rates         TSO XVII
177, 2021          11-18-2021  Contract to install          TSO VII
                               skatepark equipment
178, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
179, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
180, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
181, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
182, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
183, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
184, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
185, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
186, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
187, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
188, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
189, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
190, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
191, 2021          12-9-2021   Contract for removal of      TSO VII
                               debris
                               Adopting the housing choice
192, 2021          12-9-2021   voucher program 2022 utility 155.04
                               allowance schedule
                               Authorizing a collective
                               bargaining agreement between
193, 2021          12-9-2021   the city and the Ashland     TSO V
                               City police members,
                               Fraternal Order of Police,
                               Ashland Lodge #3
                               Amending animal regulations  90.15;
194, 2021          12-10-2021  regarding licensing of       90.33;
                               animals and rabies control;  90.99
                               repealing Ord. 105-2000
195, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               removal of debris
196, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               removal of debris
197, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               removal of debris
198, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               removal of debris
199, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               removal of debris
200, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               removal of debris
201, 2021          12-10-2021  Amending a contract for the  TSO VII
                               purchase of a fire pumper
                               Amending a contract
202, 2021          12-10-2021  regarding the removal and    TSO VII
                               installation of lamella
                               modules
                               Authorizing a professional
1, 2022            11-18-2021  services agreement for the   TSO VII
                               Pollard Mills drainage
                               improvement project
                               Executing a task order
2, 2022            1-13-2022   between the city and Strand  TSO IV
                               Associates, Inc.
                               Amending the policies and
3, 2022            1-13-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Executing agreement between
4, 2022            1-13-2022   the city and Commonwealth of TSO IV
                               Kentucky Transportation
                               Cabinet
5, 2022            1-13-2022   Amending the 2021-2022       Not included
                               budget
                               Amending agreement for
6, 2022            1-13-2022   engineering services for     TSO VII
                               abatement and demolition bid
                               documents
                               Executing contract for
7, 2022            1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
8, 2022            1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO XVII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
10, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
11, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
12, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
13, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO XVII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
14, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
15, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
16, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
17, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
18, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
19, 2022           1-27-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
20, 2022           1-27-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               building demolition
                               Executing amendment to
21, 2022           1-27-2022   agreement between the city   TSO IV
                               and HDR Engineering, Inc.
                               Submitting amended FY 2021
                               grant application to the
22, 2022           1-27-2022   Federal Transit              TSO IV
                               Administration on behalf of
                               bus system
                               Executing contract for
23, 2022           2-10-2022   purchase and delivery of     TSO VII
                               FLOWSERVE model 23 EPM raw
                               water intake pump
                               Executing contract for
24, 2022           2-10-2022   landfill location for        TSO VII
                               compacted garbage, refuse,
                               rubble and rubbish
                               Executing contract for
25, 2022           2-24-2022   engineering services for     TSO VII
                               roadway/streetscape
                               improvements project
                               Amending comprehensive
26, 2022           2-24-2022   hiring ordinance for police  TSO XVII
                               officers
                               Executing contract for free-
27, 2022           2-24-2022   standing sign and ATM        TSO VII
                               machine in city s right-of-
                               way
                               Executing change order no. 1
28, 2022           2-24-2022   regarding Central Park all-  TSO VII
                               inclusive playground
                               equipment
                               Amending the policies and
29, 2022           3-10-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
30, 2022           4-14-2022   Adopting the 2020 CDBG CAPER TSO IV
                               Executing contract for
31, 2022           4-14-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
32, 2022           4-14-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
33, 2022           4-14-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
34, 2022           4-14-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Accepting the proposal of
35, 2022           4-14-2022   Conventions Sports and       TSO IV
                               Leisure International, LLC
                               Executing contract for
36, 2022           4-15-2022   installation of an aerator   TSO VII
                               motor gearbox
                               Executing an engagement
37, 2022           4-15-2022   letter for preparation of a  TSO VII
                               classification and
                               compensation study
                               Executing agreement with the
38, 2022           4-15-2022   Kentucky Transportation      TSO IV
                               Cabinet
39, 2022           4-15-2022   Executing agreement for      TSO VII
                               design and agency approvals
                               Executing agreement for the
40, 2022           4-15-2022   installation of sidewalks,   TSO VII
                               curb and gutter and asphalt
                               paving along Dixon Street
                               Executing contract for
41, 2022           4-15-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
42, 2022           4-15-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
43, 2022           4-15-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
44, 2022           4-15-2022   Repealing Ord. 8, 2022       TSO XVII
                               Executing contract for
45, 2022           4-15-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
46, 2022           4-15-2022   Repealing Ord. 13, 2022      TSO XVII
                               Adding regulations for the   73.01;
47, 2022           4-15-2022   permitted operation of golf  73.06;
                               carts                        73.99
48, 2022           4-15-2022   Amending the prohibition     71.10
                               against golf carts
49, 2022           4-15-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               purchase of materials
50, 2022           4-15-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               purchase of materials
51, 2022           4-15-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               purchase of materials
52, 2022           4-15-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               purchase of materials
53, 2022           4-15-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               purchase of materials
                               Executing contract for
54, 2022           4-15-2022   removing and installing      TSO VII
                               Lamella Modules
                               Executing contract for the
55, 2022           4-15-2022   Floyd Street Pump Station    TSO VII
                               HVAC and exterior renovation
                               project
                               Executing a contract for the
56, 2022           4-15-2022   removal and disposition of   TSO VII
                               sludge from the wastewater
                               treatment plant
                               Executing a contract for the
57, 2022           4-15-2022   removal and disposition of   TSO VII
                               sludge from the wastewater
                               treatment plant.
                               Executing a contract for the
58, 2022           4-15-2022   installation of playground   TSO VII
                               equipment at Wendell Banks
                               Southside Park
                               Executing contract for
59, 2022           4-15-2022   removal and replacement of   TSO VII
                               fencing at Oliverio Park
                               Ball Fields
                               Closing the alley running
                               parallel to Winchester
60, 2022           4-15-2022   Avenue and Carter Avenue     TSO XIV
                               from 11th Street to 12th
                               Street
                               Executing contract for
61, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
62, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
63, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
64, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal.
                               Executing contract for
65, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
66, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
67, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
68, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
69, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
70, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
71, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
72, 2022           5-12-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
73, 2022           5-12-2022   Adopting the 2022 Housing    155.04
                               Choice Voucher Program
74, 2022           5-12-2022   Submitting 2019 CDBG         TSO IV
                               amendment
                               Submitting 2022 grant
75, 2022           5-12-2022   application to the Federal   TSO XI
                               Transit Administration on
                               behalf of the bus system
                               Amending the policies and
76, 2022           5-12-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Executing contract for
77, 2022           5-26-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
78, 2022           5-26-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Executing contract for
79, 2022           5-26-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Establishing an
80, 2022           5-26-2022   Entertainment Destination    TSO IV
                               Center in the downtown of
                               the city
                               Accepting donations of land
81, 2022           5-26-2022   known as the Community Trust TSO I
                               Parking Garage
                               Executing an agreement for
82, 2022           5-26-2022   purchase of real property    Not included
                               between the city and River
                               Metals Recycling LLC
                               Executing agreement for
83, 2022           5-26-2022   property and casualty        TSO VII
                               insurance broker/agent
                               placement services
                               Submitting an application to
84, 2022           5-26-2022   the U.S. Department of       TSO XI
                               Justice for a substance
                               abuse site-based program
85, 2022           5-26-2022   Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               Ashland Community Kitchen
                               Executing agreement for
86, 2022           6-9-2022    professional engineering     TSO VII
                               services
                               Adopting the May 2022
87, 2022           6-9-2022    transit asset management     TSO IV
                               plan for the bus system
88, 2022           6-9-2022    Approving renewal of health  TSO VII
                               insurance contracts
89, 2022           6-9-2022    Approving renewal of life    TSO VII
                               insurance contract
90, 2022           6-9-2022    Amending the list of         Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                               loading/unloading zones
91, 2022           6-9-2022    Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               Hillcrest Bruce Mission
                               Executing agreement with
92, 2022           6-9-2022    Mountain Comprehensive Care  TSO IV
                               Center Inc.
93, 2022           6-9-2022    Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               First Christian Church
94, 2022           6-9-2022    Adding a disabled parking    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                               space
95, 2022           6-9-2022    Amending where parking is    Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                               prohibited
                                                            111.003;
                                                            111.020;
                                                            111.022;
96, 2022           6-9-2022    Amending alcohol regulations 111.032;
                                                            111.036;
                                                            111.054;
                                                            111.062;
                                                            111.063
                               Amending and adopting the
97, 2022           6-10-2022   Standard Operating           33.02;
                               Procedures of the Fire       TSO XVII
                               Department
                               Executing a memorandum of
98, 2022           6-10-2022   agreement with the Kentucky  TSO XI
                               Division of Emergency
                               Management
                               Adopting regulations         113.01;
99, 2022           6-10-2022   regarding mobile food        113.02;
                               vendors                      113.99
                               Amending the collective
                               bargaining agreement with
100, 2022          6-10-2022   Ashland City police members, TSO V
                               Fraternal Order of Police,
                               Ashland Lodge #3
                               Executing contract for
101, 2022          6-10-2022   installation of camera       TSO VII
                               security system for city
                               parks
102, 2022          6-10-2022   Amending regulations         94.02;
                               regarding unlawful conduct   94.04
                               Amending the standards for
103, 2022          6-10-2022   issuance of special events   97.137
                               permits
                               Amending the policies and
104, 2022          6-10-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Executing contract for the
105, 2022          6-24-2022   concrete sidewalk grinding   TSO VII
                               sidewalk trip hazard repair
                               project
106, 2022          6-24-2022   Amending agreement with      TSO IV
                               Strand Associates, Inc.
107, 2022          6-24-2022   Amending the prohibited      96.03
                               activities in city parks
                               Accepting ownership,
108, 2022          6-24-2022   maintenance and operations   TSO I
                               responsibilities for Khanna
                               Court
                               Executing contract for
109, 2022          6-24-2022   professional engineering     TSO VII
                               services
                               Executing contract for
110, 2022          6-24-2022   professional engineering     TSO VII
                               services
111, 2022          6-24-2022   Executing a mutual aid       TSO XVII
                               agreement
                               Executing contract for
112, 2022          6-24-2022   purchase and installation of TSO VII
                               a garage door system
113, 2022          6-24-2022   Fixing the tax levy for the  TSO XVIII
                               year 2022
114, 2022          6-24-2022   Fixing the ad valorem tax    TSO XVIII
                               levy for the year 2022
                               Amending the policies and
115, 2022          6-24-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
116, 2022          6-24-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
117, 2022          6-24-2022   Amending 2021-2022 budget    Not included
118, 2022          6-24-2022   Approving and adopting the   Not included
                               2022-2023 budget
                               Fixing the regulatory
119, 2022          6-24-2022   license fee at 4 of the      Not included
                               gross receipts for the sale
                               of alcoholic beverages
                               Amending the collective
                               bargaining agreement with
120, 2022          6-24-2022   Ashland City police members, TSO V
                               Fraternal Order of Police,
                               Ashland Lodge #3
                               Authorizing a 7 increase for
121, 2022          6-24-2022   all members of the Policemen Not included
                               s and Firefighters Pension
                               Fund
                               Authorizing a 7 increase for
122, 2022          6-24-2022   all members of the Utility   Not included
                               Pension Fund
                               Restricting the use of
123, 2022          6-24-2022   $2,000,000 in the General    Not included
                               Fund for economic
                               development purposes only
124, 2022          7-14-2022   Submitting the 2022 action   TSO IV
                               plan for a CDBG grant to HUD
125, 2022          7-14-2022   Executing a mutual aid       TSO XI
                               agreement
                               Adopting the procurement
                               regulations by reference;
126, 2022          7-28-2022   repealing Ords. 52-1979,     TSO XVII
                               104-1980, 65-1982, 34-1987,
                               31-1988, 110-1988, 52-1991,
                               61-2019 and 87-2019
127, 2022          7-28-2022   Purchasing 120 20th Street   TSO XIII
                               Executing contract to
128, 2022          7-28-2022   provide and administer       TSO VII
                               hepatitis B vaccines to
                               employees
129, 2022          7-28-2022   Executing contract for       TSO VII
                               purchase of materials
                               Executing contract for
130, 2022          7-28-2022   miscellaneous concrete and   TSO VII
                               asphalt repair work
                               Approving change order no. 1
131, 2022          7-29-2022   decreasing a contract for    TSO VII
                               demolition
132, 2022          7-29-2022   Executing a mutual aid       TSO XI
                               agreement
133, 2022          7-29-2022   Executing a School Resource  TSO VII
                               Officer agreement
                               Authorizing and approving
                               leave up to 48 hours for
134, 2022          7-29-2022   police officers and          Not included
                               firefighters involved
                               directly in critical
                               incidents
                               Amending the policies and
135, 2022          7-29-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Executing contract for
136, 2022          7-29-2022   replacement and installation TSO VII
                               of new fencing at Central
                               Park
137, 2022          7-29-2022   Amending the development     37.098
                               incentive program
                               Renaming the west end of the
                               Port of Ashland Riverfront
138, 2022          8-11-2022   Park as Poage Landing Park   Not included
                               and renaming the east end as
                               Port of Ashland
                               Executing a KYWARN water/
139, 2022          8-11-2022   wastewater utility           TSO XI
                               intrastate mutual aid
                               agreement
140, 2022          8-11-2022   Executing a mutual aid       TSO XI
                               agreement
                               Executing contract for the
141, 2022          8-25-2022   Downtown Area Sidewalk       TSO VII
                               Replacement Project
                               Executing contract for the
142, 2022          8-25-2022   placement and replacement of TSO VII
                               bituminous asphalt material
                               Amending the policies and
143, 2022          8-25-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Approving rebate or
144, 2022          8-25-2022   retention of occupational    TSO XVIII
                               license fees
                               Executing agreement with the
145, 2022          8-25-2022   Kentucky Transportation      TSO IV
                               Cabinet
                               Executing agreement for
146, 2022          8-25-2022   recording, broadcasting and  TSO VII
                               posting of City Commission
                               meetings
                               Executing agreement with the
147, 2022          9-8-2022    Kentucky Infrastructure      TSO IV
                               Authority
                               Executing contract for
148, 2022          9-8-2022    remote sensing water leak    TSO XVII
                               detection
                               Executing agreement with
149, 2022          9-8-2022    Boyd County Council on       TSO IV
                               Aging, Inc.
150, 2022          9-8-2022    Adding the position of       TSO XVII
                               School Resource Officer
                               Amending the policies and
151, 2022          9-8-2022    procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Executing agreement with
152, 2022          9-22-2022   Ashland Community Kitchens,  TSO IV
                               Inc.
                               Executing agreement with
153, 2022          9-22-2022   Ashland Community Kitchens,  TSO IV
                               Inc.
154, 2022          9-22-2022   Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               Shelter of Hope, Inc.
155, 2022          9-22-2022   Executing agreement with     TSO IV
                               Hillcrest Bruce Mission
                               Amending the policies and
156, 2022          9-22-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
157, 2022          9-22-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Amending the policies and
158, 2022          9-22-2022   procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
                               Executing contract for
159, 2022          9-22-2022   demolition and debris        TSO VII
                               removal
                               Amending the Housing Voucher
160, 2022          9-23-2022   Program for Gla-Low          155.04
                               Apartments
161, 2022          9-23-2022   Adopting the PY2021 CDBG     TSO IV
                               CAPER.
162, 2022          9-23-2022   Executing agreement with TAJ TSO IV
                               Holdings LLC
                               Executing contract for the
163, 2022          9-23-2022   preparation of a strategic   TSO VII
                               plan
164, 2022          9-23-2022   Executing contract to repair TSO VII
                               two broken aerator blades
165, 2022          10-13-2022  Closing streets              TSO XIV
166, 2022          10-14-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
                               Amending economic
167, 2022          10-14-2022  development incentive        TSO XVIII
                               ordinance
168, 2022          10-14-2022  Repealing Ord. 148, 2021     TSO XVII
169, 2022          10-14-2022  Agreement with CARES re CDBG TSO IV
                               funds
170, 2022          10-14-2022  Agreement re CDBG funds      TSO IV
171, 2022          10-14-2022  Agreement re CDBG funds      TSO IV
172, 2022          10-14-2022  Agreement for grant funds    TSO IV
173, 2022          10-14-2022  Board meetings               30.06
                               Hiring ord - police          34.15;
174, 2022          11-17-2022  qualifications; repealing    34.32;
                               Ords. 170, 2021; 26-2022;    34.45;
                               150, 2022                    34.55
                               Amending the policies and
175, 2022          11-17-2022  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
176, 2022          11-17-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
177, 2022          11-17-2022  Agreement re CDBG funds      TSO IV
178, 2022          11-17-2022  Regulations for special      97.135
                               events
179, 2022          11-17-2022  Accepting firefighters grant TSO IV
180, 2022          12-15-2022  Amended action plan for CDBG TSO IV
181, 2022          12-15-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
182, 2022          12-15-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
183, 2022          12-15-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
184, 2022          12-15-2022  Memo of agreement re         TSO IV
                               convention center
185, 2022          12-15-2022  Fees for parking spaces      72.070
186, 2022          12-15-2022  Garbage                      TSO XVII
187, 2022          12-15-2022  Amending flexible spending   TSO VII
                               plan
188, 2022          12-19-2022  Grant assistance agreement   TSO IV
189, 2022          12-19-2022  HUD voucher standards        155.04
190, 2022          12-19-2022  Employee assistance program  TSO VII
                               agreement
191, 2022          12-19-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
192, 2022          12-19-2022  Handicap parking space       Ch. 75, Sch. III
193, 2022          12-19-2022  Establishing 30-minute       Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               parking space
194, 2022          12-19-2022  Contract                     TSO VII
195, 2022          12-19-2022  Compensation for Mayor and   Not included
                               Commissioners
196, 2022          12-19-2022  Alcohol time of sales        111.058
                               amended
1, 2023            1-26-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
2, 2023            1-26-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
3, 2023            1-26-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
4, 2023            1-26-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
5, 2023            1-26-2023   Agreement                    TSO VII
                               Adopting Supplements S-82
6, 2023            1-26-2023   through S-85 to the code of  Not included
                               ordinances
7, 2023            2-9-2023    Agreement re development     TSO IV
8, 2023            2-9-2023    Agreement re development     TSO IV
9, 2023            2-9-2023    Agreement re development     TSO IV
10, 2023           2-9-2023    Adopting revised job         Not included
                               description
11, 2023           2-9-2023    Adopting revised job         Not included
                               description
12, 2023           2-9-2023    Adopting revised job         Not included
                               description
13, 2023           2-9-2023    Amendment to agreement       TSO VII
14, 2023           2-9-2023    Grant application            TSO VII
15, 2023           2-9-2023    Ticket seller agreement      TSO VII
16, 2023           2-9-2023    Contract                     TSO VII
17, 2023           2-23-2023   Amending employee provisions Not included
18, 2023           2-23-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
19, 2023           2-9-2023    Contract                     TSO VII
20, 2023           2-23-2023   Grant application            TSO VII
21, 2023           2-23-2023   Agreement re encroachment    TSO VII
22, 2023           2-23-2023   Grant application            TSO VII
23, 2023           3-9-2023    Grant assistance agreement   TSO IV
24, 2023           3-9-2023    Engagement letter            TSO VII
25, 2023           3-9-2023    Amending employment process  Not included
26, 2023           3-9-2023    Contract                     TSO VII
                               Designating congressional    Ch. 75, Sch. II;
27, 2023           3-9-2023    visitor parking;             TSO XVII
                               repealing Ord. 90, 2007
28, 2023           3-9-2023    15-minute parking            Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
29, 2023           3-9-2023    Grant application for        TSO VII
                               firefighters
30, 2023           3-23-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
31, 2023           3-24-2023   Adopting classification and  Not included
                               compensation plan
32, 2023           3-24-2023   Change order to contract     TSO VII
33, 2023           3-24-2023   Change order to contract     TSO VII
34, 2023           3-24-2023   Contract for parking         TSO VII
                               equipment
35, 2023           3-24-2023   Application for grant        TSO VII
36, 2023           3-24-2023   Garbage, water and sewer     TSO XVII
                               provisions
37, 2023           4-27-2023   Qualifications for hiring    TSO XVII
                               within Fire Department
38, 2023           4-27-2023   Amend employment process     Not included
39, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
40, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
41, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
42, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
43, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
44, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
45, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
46, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
47, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
48, 2023           4-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
49, 2023           4-27-2023   Adopting procurement         37.035;
                               regulations                  TSO XVII
50, 2023           4-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
51, 2023           4-28-2023   Classification compensation  Not included
                               plan
52, 2023           4-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
53, 2023           4-28-2023   Memo of understanding re:    TSO IV
                               streetscape project
54, 2023           4-28-2023   Acceptance of right-of-way   TSO I
55, 2023           4-28-2023   Street closing               TSO XIV
56, 2023           4-28-2023   Zoning map change            TSO XVI
57, 2023           4-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
58, 2023           5-15-2023   Amending classification/     Not included
                               compensation plan
59, 2023           5-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
60, 2023           5-15-2023   CDBG application for housing TSO IV
                               and urban development
61, 2023           5-25-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
62, 2023           5-26-2023   Amendment to agreement       TSO VII
63, 2023           5-26-2023   Agreement                    TSO VII
64, 2023           5-26-2023   Removal and placement of     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               stop signs
65, 2023           5-26-2023   Residential parking          Ch. 75, Sch. X
66, 2023           5-26-2023   Prohibited parking           Ch. 75, Sch. VI
67, 2023           5-26-2023   Job description              Not included
68, 2023           6-8-2023    Adopting 2023-2024 budget    Not included
69, 2023           6-8-2023    Fixing the tax levy for the  TSO XVIII
                               year 2023
70, 2023           6-8-2023    Setting annual alcohol       Not included
                               license fee
71, 2023           6-8-2023    Amending salary chart        Not included
72, 2023           6-15-2023   Increase for police and fire Not included
                               pension fund
73, 2023           6-15-2023   Increase for utility pension Not included
                               fund
74, 2023           6-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
                               Amendment to police
75, 2023           6-15-2023   collective bargaining        TSO V
                               agreement
76, 2023           6-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
77, 2023           6-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
78, 2023           6-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
79, 2023           6-15-2023   Amending positions list for  Not included
                               Police Department
80, 2023           6-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
81, 2023           6-15-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
82, 2023           6-23-2023   Job description              Not included
83, 2023           6-23-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
84, 2023           6-23-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
85, 2023           6-23-2023   Amending the garbage, sewer  TSO XVII
                               and water ordinance
                                                            34.15;
86, 2023           6-23-2023   Recruitment of police        34.32;
                               officers                     34.45; 
                                                            34.55
87, 2023           6-23-2023   Ad valorem taxes             TSO XVIII
88, 2023           6-23-2023   Amending the 2022-2023       Not included
                               budget
89, 2023           6-23-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
90, 2023           6-23-2023   Adding job opening           Not included
91, 2023           6-23-2023   Mutual aid agreement         TSO XI
92, 2023           6-23-2023   Supplemental construction    TSO XI
                               agreement
93, 2023           6-23-2023   Landscaping agreement        TSO IX
94, 2023           7-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
95, 2023           7-27-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
96, 2023           7-27-2023   Prohibited parking           Ch. 75, Sch. VI
97, 2023           7-28-2023   Amending Ord. 138, 2018      TSO VII
98, 2023           7-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
99, 2023           7-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
100, 2023          7-28-2023   Amendment to agreement       TSO VII
101, 2023          7-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
102, 2023          7-28-2023   Preparation of housing       TSO IV
                               choice voucher (Section 8)
103, 2023          7-28-2023   Merchant application         TSO VII
                               agreement
104, 2023          7-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
105, 2023          7-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
106, 2023          7-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
107, 2023          7-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
108, 2023          7-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
109, 2023          7-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
110, 2023          7-28-2023   Screening services           TSO VII
111, 2023          7-28-2023   Amending policies and        Not included
                               procedures
                                                            110.01;
112, 2023          7-28-2023   Repealing and replacing      110.02;
                               distribution of handbills    110.99;
                                                            TSO XVII
113, 2023          7-28-2023   Approving change order no. 1 TSO VII
114, 2023          8-24-2023   Zoning map change            TSO XVI
115, 2023          8-24-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
116, 2023          8-24-2023   My Town TV agreement         TSO VII
117, 2023          8-24-2023   IT services agreement        TSO VII
118, 2023          8-24-2023   Amending Ord. 124, 2020      TSO VII
119, 2023          8-24-2023   Approving change order no. 2 TSO VII
120, 2023          8-24-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
121, 2023          8-24-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
122, 2023          8-24-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
123, 2023          8-24-2023   Subscription services        TSO VII
                               agreement
124, 2023          9-14-2023   Repealing Ord. 160, 2005     TSO XI
125, 2023          9-14-2023   Approving 2023 rent increase Not included
126, 2023          9-14-2023   Amending 15-minute parking   Ch. 75, Sch. VIII
                               spaces
127, 2023          9-14-2023   Improvements project         TSO VII
                               agreement
128, 2023          9-14-2023   Software maintenance         TSO VII
                               services agreement
129, 2023          9-14-2023   Distribution of opioid       Not included
                               litigation funds
130, 2023          9-28-2023   Approving change order no. 1 TSO VII
131, 2023          9-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
132, 2023          9-28-2023   Encroachment agreement       TSO IX
133, 2023          9-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
134, 2023          9-28-2023   Community development block  TSO VII
                               grant
135, 2023          9-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
136, 2023          9-28-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
137, 2023          10-6-2023   Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
138, 2023          10-6-2023   Adopting the PY2022 CDBG     TSO IV
                               CAPER
139, 2023          10-6-2023   Public transportation grant  TSO VII
                               agreement
140, 2023          10-6-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
141, 2023          10-6-2023   Approving change order no. 2 TSO VII
142, 2023          10-6-2023   School resource officer      TSO VII
                               agreement
143, 2023          10-6-2023   Contract                     TSO VII
144, 2023          10-12-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
145, 2023          10-26-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
146, 2023          10-26-2023  Encroachment agreement       TSO VII
147, 2023          10-26-2023  Water distribution agreement TSO VII
148, 2023          10-26-2023  Agreement                    TSO VII
149, 2023          10-26-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
150, 2023          10-26-2023  Amending positions list for  Not included
                               the Department of Utilities
                               Establishing the Ashland
                               Conference Center Advisory
151, 2023          11-6-2023   Committee as a temporary     Not included
                               committee of the Board of
                               Commissioners
152, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
153, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
154, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
155, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
156, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
157, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
158, 2023          11-16-2023  Community development block  TSO IV
                               grant
159, 2023          11-16-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
160, 2023          11-16-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
161, 2023          11-16-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
                               Amending positions lists for
                               the Police Department, the
162, 2023          12-14-2023  Department of Parks and      Not included
                               Recreation, and the
                               Department of Utilities
                               Adopting the housing choice
163, 2023          12-14-2023  voucher program payment      155.04
                               standards effective January
                               1, 2024
                               Establishing the line of
164, 2023          12-14-2023  authority for the City       TSO XVII
                               Manager; repealed by Ord. 1,
                               2025
165, 2023          12-14-2023  Employment agreement         TSO VII
166, 2023          12-14-2023  Amending flexible spending   TSO VII
                               plan
167, 2023          12-15-2023  Authorizing task order no.   TSO VII
                               24-01
168, 2023          12-15-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
169, 2023          12-15-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
170, 2023          12-15-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
                               Amending the policies and
171, 2023          12-15-2023  procedures, compensation     Not included
                               plan and classification plan
172, 2023          12-15-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
173, 2023          12-15-2023  Contract                     TSO VII
                               Contract between the city
1, 2024            1-25-2024   and General Heating and Air  TSO VII
                               Conditioning, Inc.
2, 2024            1-25-2024   Contract between the city    TSO VII
                               and Service Pump & Supply
3, 2024            1-25-2024   Contract between the city    TSO VII
                               and Service Pump & Supply
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
4, 2024            1-25-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               1620 Belmont Street
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
5, 2024            1-25-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               322 Ringo Street
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and Evonik
6, 2024            1-25-2024   Corporation in the amount of TSO VII
                               $2,500 and extending the
                               contract for a period of one
                               year
                               Traffic flow; amending Ord.
7, 2024            1-25-2024   137, 2000; repealed by Ord.  TSO XVII
                               37, 2025
8, 2024            1-25-2024   Stop signs; amending Ord.    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               169, 1995
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and C.J.
9, 2024            1-25-2024   Hughes Construction Co.,     TSO VII
                               inc. for the Oakview Road
                               culvert replacement project
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and a plus
10, 2024           1-25-2024   Contractors LLC for the      TSO VII
                               replacement and
                               reconfiguration of emergency
                               generators
                               Adopting Supplements S-86,
11, 2024           1-25-2024   S-87 and S-88 to code of     Not included
                               ordinances
                               Contract; a five-year
                               extension to the housing
12, 2024           1-25-2024   assistance payments contract TSO VII
                               between the city and Harbor
                               Hill, LLLP
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and Garage
13, 2024           1-25-2024   Door Operators for the       TSO VII
                               garage door system at
                               Ashland Fire Department
                               Central Station
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and C.J.
14, 2024           1-25-2024   Hughes Construction Co.,     TSO VII
                               Inc. for the Pollard Mills
                               infrastructure project,
                               phase 3
15, 2024           2-8-2024    Agreement with Safe Harbor   TSO VII
                               of Northeast Kentucky, Inc.
                               Agreement with Community
16, 2024           2-8-2024    Assistance Referral Service, TSO VII
                               Inc. (CARES)
                               Contract between the city
                               and General Heating and Air
17, 2024           2-8-2024    Conditioning, Inc. for the   TSO VII
                               replacement of one HVAC unit
                               at the Ashland Senior Center
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
18, 2024           2-8-2024    materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               2434 Clinton Street
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
19, 2024           2-8-2024    materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               3013 Central Avenue
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               (final) between the city and
20, 2024           2-8-2024    Midwest Tank Management, LLC TSO VII
                               for the Debord hill tank
                               mixing system
                                                            157.003;
21, 2024           2-8-2024    Amending zoning              157.183;
                                                            157.207
22, 2024           2-8-2024    Amending zoning              157.003
23, 2024           2-8-2024    Adopting 2024 utility        155.04
                               allowance schedule
                               Adopting the city s civil
24, 2024           2-8-2024    rights assurance program     TSO IV
                               (Title VI)
                               Executing a pre-award
                               compliance review report for
                               all applicants and
25, 2024           2-8-2024    recipients requesting EPA    TSO XI
                               financial assistance for the
                               Department of Community and
                               Economic Development
                               Approving minority loan no.
26, 2024           2-8-2024    2024-M-001 to Jerk Riley s   TSO IV
                               Billiards and Pub, LLC
                               Purchase agreement between
                               the city and Sutphen
27, 2024           2-8-2024    Corporation for the purchase TSO VII
                               of a Sutphen heavy monarch
                               package fire truck
                               Contract for services
28, 2024           2-22-2024   between the city and         TSO VII
                               Linebach Funkhouser, Inc.
                               Contract between the city
29, 2024           2-22-2024   and Service Pump & Supply in TSO VII
                               the amount of $42,390 for
                               repair of the vac truck
                               Contract between the city
                               and Service Pump & Supply in
30, 2024           2-22-2024   the amount of $65,704 for    TSO VII
                               the raw water intake pump
                               removal and spare
                               reinstallation
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and Bobby s
31, 2024           2-22-2024   Mulch extending the contract TSO VII
                               for the demolition and
                               clearance of 2824 Main
                               Street
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and Bobby s
32, 2024           2-22-2024   Mulch extending the contract TSO VII
                               for the demolition and
                               clearance of 4013 Skidmore
                               Street
                               Adopting job description for
33, 2024           2-22-2024   water/wastewater operator    Not included
                               intern
                               Lease agreement between the
                               city and Acme Auto Leasing,
34, 2024           2-22-2024   LLC for the leasing of       TSO VII
                               vehicles used for special
                               investigations
                               Amending authorized
                               positions list to add one
35, 2024           2-22-2024   public service officer in    TSO V
                               the Department of Police of
                               the classification and
                               compensation plan
                               Contract with Womack
                               Excavating, LLC for the
                               purchase of all labor,
36, 2024           2-23-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               3005 Lookout Street
                               Agreement with the Boyd
                               County Council on Aging,
                               Inc., the subrecipient of
37, 2024           2-23-2024   $9,000 from the 2023 program TSO VII
                               year community development
                               block grant for replacement
                               of one HVAC unit at the
                               Ashland Senior Center
                               Agreement with Neighbors
                               Helping Neighbors, Inc., the
                               subrecipient of $102,500
                               from the 2023 program year
38, 2024           2-23-2024   community development block  TSO VII
                               grant for replacement of six
                               HVAC units at the
                               neighborhood by General
                               Heating and Air
                               Conditioning, Inc.
                               Contract between the city
                               and Boyd County Sanitary
                               Landfill, Inc. (Rumpke) for
                               a suitable landfill location
39, 2024           2-23-2024   for the receipt and disposal TSO VII
                               of compacted garbage and
                               refuse, rubble and rubbish,
                               collected by the city for a
                               period of one year
                               Contract a contract with
                               Womack Excavating, LLC for
40, 2024           2-23-2024   the removal, disposal and    TSO VII
                               cleanup of all debris at
                               3100 Central Avenue
41, 2024           2-23-2024   Codification agreement with  TSO VII
                               American Legal Publishing
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
42, 2024           3-28-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               1825 Belmont Street
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
43, 2024           3-28-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               4116 Hart Street
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
44, 2024           3-28-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               462 29th Street
                               Agreement between the city
                               and Cleveland-Cliffs Steel
                               Corporation allowing the
                               city access to property
45, 2024           3-28-2024   located at 23rd and Front    TSO VII
                               Street as parcel 4 of the
                               Norton Landfill owned by
                               Cliffs for the purpose of
                               staging construction
                               trailers
                               Contract between the city
                               and Republic Services, Inc.
                               (Green Valley Landfill) for
46, 2024           3-28-2024   the removal and disposition  TSO VII
                               of sludge from the city s
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               and water treatment plant
                               Amendment to the agreement
47, 2024           3-28-2024   for engineering services     TSO VII
                               between the city and Bell
                               Engineering
                               Amendment no. 1 to the
48, 2024           4-5-2024    agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and GRW Engineers, Inc. to
                               provide engineering services
                               Grant application to the
                               KYOVA Interstate Planning
49, 2024           4-5-2024    Commission for a surface     TSO VII
                               transportation block grant
                               (STBG)
                               Contract with Brenntag Mid-
50, 2024           4-5-2024    South, Inc. for the purchase TSO VII
                               of liquid caustic soda
                               Contract with Citco Water
51, 2024           4-5-2024    for the purchase of sulfur   TSO VII
                               dioxide
                               Contract with Polydyne, Inc.
52, 2024           4-5-2024    for the purchase of liquid   TSO VII
                               polymer for the water
                               treatment plant
                               Contract with Shannon
53, 2024           4-5-2024    Chemical Corporation for the TSO VII
                               purchase of potassium
                               permanganate
                               Contract with Univar
54, 2024           4-5-2024    Solutions USA Inc. for the   TSO VII
                               purchase of hydrofluosilicic
                               acid
                               Contract with USALCO, LLC
55, 2024           4-5-2024    for the purchase of aluminum TSO VII
                               sulfate (liquid)
                               Service agreement between
56, 2024           5-9-2024    the city and Silversmith,    TSO XVII
                               Inc.; repealed by Ord. 68,
                               2024
57, 2024           4-5-2024    Request for fiscal year      Not included
                               appropriations
                               Repealing Ord. 73, 2021;
58, 2024           4-5-2024    residential housing units    TSO XVII
                               (Ch. 102)
                               Right of entry consent for
59, 2024           4-5-2024    reclamation and abatement    Not included
                               work between the city and
                               the Commonwealth
60, 2024           4-5-2024    Adopting revised job         Not included
                               descriptions
                               Authority for execution of a
                               conditional commitment
61, 2024           4-11-2024   letter for a Kentucky        TSO IV
                               Infrastructure Authority
                               (KIA) loan for the city
                               Execution of a deed of
                               conveyance between the city
                               and Boyd Company (f/k/
62, 2024           4-11-2024   a Whayne Supply) conveying a TSO I
                               parcel of land located on
                               U.S. Route 60 and in the
                               center of Marsh Run
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               in the contract authorized
63, 2024           4-12-2024   by Ord. 109, 2023 between    TSO VII
                               the city and Natare
                               Corporation for the Dawson
                               pool lining project
                               Submission of annual plan of
                               the Assisted Housing
                               Authority KY142 2024 annual
64, 2024           4-12-2024   plan for the city s          TSO IV
                               Department of Community and
                               Economic Development,
                               Division of Assisted Housing
                               (Section 8)
                               Contract services agreement
                               between the city and
65, 2024           4-12-2024   Kentucky Power Company for   TSO VII
                               electrical contracting
                               services
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and Spear
66, 2024           4-12-2024   Corporation for the Dawson   TSO VII
                               pool filtration system
                               project
                               Adopting the community
                               development block grant
67, 2024           4-25-2024   amended five-year            TSO IV
                               consolidated plan (2015 -
                               2019)
                               Repealing Ord. 56, 2024;
68, 2024           5-9-2024    agreement with Silversmith,  TSO XVII
                               Inc.
                               FY 2024 grant application to
69, 2024           5-9-2024    the Federal Transit          TSO VII
                               Administration on behalf of
                               the Ashland Bus System
                               Opioid litigation funding
70, 2024           5-9-2024    agreement amendment between  TSO VII
                               the city and Ramey-Estep
                               Homes, Inc.
                               Agreement between the city
71, 2024           5-9-2024    and CTB, Inc. for the city   TSO VII
                               hall exterior upgrades
                               Agreement between the city
                               and Fivco Area Development
72, 2024           5-9-2024    District setting forth the   TSO VII
                               duties of Fivco ADD as
                               project administrator
                               Amending 2 of Ord. 68, 2023,
                               which is commonly known and
73, 2024           - -2024     referred to as the FY2023-   TSO XVIII
                               2024 budget ordinance of the
                               city
                               Execute a conditional
                               commitment letter for a
                               state infrastructure
74, 2024           5-9-2024    authority loan for the city  TSO VII
                               s lead service line
                               inventory and assessment
                               project
                               Contract between the city
                               and CTB, Inc. for the
75, 2024           5-23-2024   Ashland Senior Center        TSO VII
                               storefront rehabilitation
                               project
                               Contract between the city
                               and Leighty Contracting, LLC
76, 2024           5-23-2024   for the Ashland water        TSO VII
                               treatment plant ramp
                               widening project
                               Agreement between the city
                               and Peoples Insurance
77, 2024           5-23-2024   Agency, LLC to provide       TSO VII
                               property and casualty
                               insurance broker/agent
                               placement services
                               Agreement for the Kentucky
78, 2024           5-23-2024   League of Cities Insurance   TSO VII
                               Services General Insurance
                               Trust for FY 2024-2025
                               Letter of agreement between
                               the city and Fivco Area
79, 2024           5-23-2024   Development District setting TSO VII
                               forth the duties of Fivco
                               ADD as project administrator
                               Contract between the city
80, 2024           5-29-2024   and Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc. TSO VII
                               to provide a public drop box
                               recycling service
                               Contract between the city
                               and Southern Ohio Trenching
81-2024            5-29-2024   & Excavating, Inc. for the   TSO VII
                               Chestnut Drive sanitary
                               sewer and waterline
                               replacement project
82, 2024           5-29-2024   Adopting revised job         Not included
                               description
                               Engagement letter with Frost
                               Brown Todd Attorneys to
83, 2024           5-29-2024   provide legal services in    TSO VII
                               connection with developing a
                               conference center
                               Amending 2 of Ord. 68, 2023,
                               previously amended by Ord.
84, 2024           6-13-2024   73, 2024, which is commonly  TSO XVIII
                               known and referred to as the
                               FY2023-2024 budget ordinance
                               Approving and adopting the
                               2024-2025 budget and
                               appropriating revenues on
85, 2024           6-13-2024   hand and to be received      TSO XVIII
                               during the year 2024-2025
                               for the payment of expenses
                               of the city
                               Fixing the tax levy for the
                               year 2024, payable in the
86, 2024           6-13-2024   year 2025, on the bank       TSO XVIII
                               deposits franchise tax for
                               revenue purposes
                               Fixing the regulatory
87, 2024           6-13-2024   license fee at 4 of the      TSO XVIII
                               gross receipts from the sale
                               of alcoholic beverages
                               Adding three firefighters in
                               the Department of Fire and
88, 2024           6-13-2024   to add one sergeant, one     TSO V
                               School Resource Officer and
                               reduce the number of police
                               officers by one
                               Amending Article 20 of the
                               agreement between the city
89, 2024           6-13-2024   and Ashland city police      TSO V
                               members, Fraternal Order of
                               Police, Ashland Lodge #3
90, 2024           6-13-2024   Amending salary chart        Not included
                               Authorizing a 4.6 increase
91, 2024           6-13-2024   for all members of the       Not included
                               Policemen s and Firefighter
                               s Pension Fund
                               Authorizing a 4.6 increase
92, 2024           6-13-2024   for all members of the       Not included
                               Utility Pension Fund
93, 2024           6-13-2024   Garbage; repealed by Ord.    TSO XVII
                               215, 2024
                               Renewal with Anthem Blue
                               Cross/Blue Shield Insurance
                               Company for administrative
94, 2024           6-14-2024   fees to administer the city  TSO VII
                               s health insurance coverage,
                               vision insurance and stop
                               loss coverage
                               Agreement with the Boyd
                               County Council on Aging,
95, 2024           6-14-2024   Inc., the subrecipient of    TSO VII
                               $167,673 from the community
                               development block grant
                               program
96, 2024           6-14-2024   Rent increase (2024) for     TSO VII
                               Harbor Hill Apartments
                               Amendment #1 to the
                               employment agreement between
97, 2024           6-14-2024   the city and Michael Graese  TSO VII
                               regarding his continued
                               employment as City Manager
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and Allard
98, 2024           6-14-2024   Excavation LLC for the       TSO VII
                               Winchester Avenue
                               improvements project
                               Amendment #1 to the
                               professional services
                               agreement adopted by Ord.
99, 2024           6-14-2024   160, 2023, between the city  TSO VII
                               and Palmer Engineering for
                               professional engineering
                               services
                               Amendment #1 to the
                               professional services
                               agreement adopted by Ord.
100, 2024          6-14-2024   161, 2023, between the city  TSO VII
                               and Palmer Engineering for
                               professional engineering
                               services
                               Approving minority loan no.
101, 2024          6-14-2024   2024-M-002 to Tracemark, LLC TSO VII
                               in the amount of $40,000
                               Approving minority loan no.
102, 2024          6-14-2024   2024-M-003 to the Mill Caf   TSO IV;
                               and Bakery, LLC; repealed by TSO XVII
                               Ord. 130, 2024
                               Approving minority loan no.
                               2024-M-004 to Broadway
103, 2024          6-14-2024   Books, LLC in the amount of  TSO XVII
                               $25,000; repealed by Ord. 9,
                               2025
                               Bill of sale between the
104, 2024          6-14-2024   city and Kentucky Power      TSO VII
                               Company for the purchase of
                               the streetlight poles
                               Authorizing the expenditure
                               of $2,180 to Gliding Swan
                               Properties LLC for a right-
105, 2024          6-14-2024   of-way easement for          TSO IX
                               electrical poles,
                               transmission lines and a
                               water tap
                               Authorizing the submission
                               the program year 2024 action
                               plan for a community
106, 2024          6-14-2024   development block grant to   TSO IV
                               the U.S. Department of
                               Housing and Urban
                               Development (HUD)
                               Contract between the city
                               and the Ashland-Boyd County
107, 2024          6-27-2024   Health Department to provide TSO VII
                               and administer hepatitis B
                               vaccines
                               Approving an additional
108, 2024          6-27-2024   vision coverage allowance    TSO VII
                               for all non-fire union
                               employees
                               Contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
109, 2024          6-27-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the demolition
                               and removal of all debris of
                               3032 Carter Avenue
                               Lease and service agreement
110, 2024          6-28-2024   between the city and Safe    TSO VII
                               Haven Baby Boxes, Inc.
                               Contract between the city
111, 2024          6-28-2024   and Morton Salt, Inc. for    TSO VII
                               the purchase of up to 1,000
                               tons of treated rock salt
                               Contract; change order no. 1
                               between the city and
                               Bluegrass Recreation Sales
112, 2024          6-28-2024   and Installation, LLC        TSO VII
                               increasing the contract
                               amount by $2,500 for the
                               East Central Park Playground
                               project
113, 2024          6-28-2024   Amending Ord. 1986, 101      157.003;
                                                            157.207
114, 2024          6-28-2024   Truck route                  71.56;
                                                            72.999
                               Adopting the revised Title
115, 2024          6-28-2024   VI program - civil rights    TSO IV
                               assurance program previously
                               adopted by Ord. 24, 2024
                               Procedural regulations for
116, 2024          - -2024     police officers; repealed by TSO XVII
                               Ord 205, 2024
                               Agreement between the city
117, 2024          6-28-2024   and BHG Ashland Real Estate  TSO VII
                               # 1, LLC regarding a public
                               ingress and egress easement
                               Executing a public perpetual
                               ingress and egress easement
                               between NNN Reit, LP, and
                               the city for vehicle and
118, 2024          6-8-2024    pedestrian traffic over and  TSO IX
                               across a parcel of land
                               located in the eastern most
                               corner of property owned by
                               National Retail Properties,
                               LP
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a School Resource
119, 2024          6-28-2028   Officer agreement between    TSO VII
                               the city and the Ashland
                               Independent School District
                               Board of Education
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
120, 2024          7-25-2024   execute an agreement with    TSO VII
                               the Boyd County Council on
                               Aging, Inc.
                               Approving the 2024 rent
                               increase for Gla-Low
                               Apartments effective October
121, 2024          7-25-2024   1, 2024 for the city,        TSO IV
                               Department of Community and
                               Economic Development,
                               Division of Assisted Housing
                               (Section 8)
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 2 between
                               the city and A Plus
122, 2024          7-26-2024   Contractors LLC for the      TSO VII
                               replacement and
                               reconfiguration of emergency
                               generators
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
                               the city and Hazen and
123, 2024          7-26-2024   Sawyer for professional      TSO VII
                               services regarding
                               management of the lead and
                               copper rule program
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
124, 2024          7-26-2024   the city and Service Pump &  TSO VII
                               Supply, Inc. for the raw
                               water intake pump repair
                               Authorizing the Mayor, to
                               execute a contract between
125, 2024          7-26-2024   the city and BLK             TSO VII
                               Construction, LLC for
                               miscellaneous concrete and
                               asphalt repair work
                               Authorizing the Mayor, to
                               execute an agreement with
                               Hillcrest Bruce Mission, the
126, 2024          7-26-2024   subrecipient of $11,302.95   TSO VII
                               from the 2024 program year
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement with
                               Ashland Community Kitchen,
127, 2024          7-26-2024   Inc., the subrecipient of    TSO VII
                               $15,000 for operating costs
                               from the 2024 program year
                               community development block
                               grant (CDBG)
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement with
                               the Salvation Army of
128, 2024          7-26-2024   Ashland, the subrecipient of TSO VII
                               $5,000 for operating costs
                               from the program year 2024
                               community development block
                               grant
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute a contract between
                               the city and Precision
129, 2024          7-26-2024   Property Development Inc.    TSO VII
                               for the Ashland Fire
                               Department central fire
                               station roofing and gutter
                               project
130, 2024          7-26-2024   Repealing Ord. 102, 2024;    TSO XVII
                               minority loan no. 2024-M-003
                               Fixing the ad valorem tax
                               levy for the year 2024,
                               payable in the year 2024, on
131, 2024          7-26-2024   real estate, personal        TSO XVIII
                               property, and franchises in
                               the city for the city
                               revenue purposes
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 2 between
132, 2024          7-25-2024   the city and Spear           TSO VII
                               Corporation for the Dawson
                               pool filtration system
                               project
                               Correcting job description
133, 2024          7-26-2024   for position of billing      Not included
                               clerk
                               Amending the policies and
                               procedures, compensation
134, 2024          7-26-2024   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan, as adopted by Ord. 51,
                               2017
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an amendment to the
                               School Resource Officer
135, 2024          7-26-2024   agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and the Ashland Independent
                               School District Board of
                               Education adopted by Ord.
                               142, 2023
                               Adopting civil rights
                               program, Title VI Program    TSO IV;
136, 2024          7-26-2024   Civil Rights Assurance for   TSO XVII
                               the bus system; repealing
                               Ord. 4, 2021
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
                               the city and Bell
137, 2024          8-22-2024   Engineering for engineering  TSO VII
                               services for design of the
                               Pollard Road box culvert
                               replacement project
                               Authorizing the Mayor, to
138, 2024          8-22-2024   execute an agreement with    TSO VII
                               Hillcrest Bruce Mission
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 between
139, 2024          8-22-2024   the city and BTI             TSO VII
                               Contracting, Inc. for the
                               placement and replacement of
                               bituminous asphalt material
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an engagement letter
140, 2024          8-22-2024   with Sturgill, Turner,       TSO VII
                               Barker & Moloney, PLLC to
                               provide legal services
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor, to execute an
141, 2024          8-22-2024   agreement between the city   TSO VII;
                               and Marc Shane Prince Rental TSO IX
                               LLC regarding an
                               encroachment
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 between
142, 2024          8-22-2024   the city and Rite Lite       TSO VII
                               Signs, Inc. for the city
                               entrance sign project
143, 2024          8-22-2024   Water rates; repealed by     TSO VII
                               Ord. 215, 2024
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 between
144, 2024          8-22-2024   the city and CTB, Inc. for   TSO VII
                               the 17th Street City Hall
                               entrance project
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an application and
                               subsequent grant agreement
145, 2024          8-22-2024   between the city and the     TSO VII
                               U.S. Environmental
                               Protection Agency for a
                               state and tribal assistance
                               grant
                               Amending the policies and
                               procedures, compensation
146, 2024          8-22-2024   plan and classification      Not included
                               plan, as adopted by Ord. 51,
                               2017
                               Authorizing the Mayor to
                               execute an agreement between
147, 2024          8-23-2024   the city and Dixon           TSO VII
                               Engineering, Inc. for
                               professional engineering
                               services
                               Authorizing the Mayor, to
                               execute a contract between
                               the city and Southern Ohio
148, 2024          8-23-2024   Trenching & Excavating for   TSO VII
                               the Pollard Mills
                               infrastructure phase 4
                               project
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a
149, 2024          8-23-2024   contract between the city    TSO VII
                               and Martin Painting &
                               Coating Company
                               Authorizing the issuance of
                               city general obligation
                               bonds, series 2024A in a
                               maximum aggregate principal
                               amount not to exceed
150, 2024          8-23-2024   $10,000,000, for the purpose TSO III
                               of financing the costs of
                               the acquisition,
                               construction, installation
                               and equipping of a new
                               conference center
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
151, 2024          8-23-2024   agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and My Town TV to record,
                               broadcast and post meetings
                               of the City Commission
                               Creating position of IT
152, 2024          8-23-2024   Coordinator and adopting job Not included
                               description for the position
                               Accepting the recommendation
                               of AP3, LLC for L.E. Gregg
153, 2024          8-23-2024   Associates to provide        TSO VII
                               geotechnical services and
                               Ayoroa Simmons, LLC to
                               provide an alta survey
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute and
                               submit an application to the
                               government resources
154, 2024          9-26-2024   accelerating needed          TSO IV
                               transformation (grant)
                               program for public benefits
                               improvements for the
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 1 between
                               the city and Mechanical
155, 2024          9-26-2024   Construction Company for the TSO VII
                               water treatment plant
                               geodesic dome tank cover
                               project
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a fixed
156, 2024          9-26-2024   fee agreement for consulting TSO VII
                               services between the city
                               and LJB Engineering
                               Professional Corporation
                               Authorizing and approving
157, 2024          9-26-2024   change order no. 1 between   TSO VII
                               the city and Southern Ohio
                               Trenching and Excavating
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
158, 2024          9-26-2024   amended public perpetual     TSO IX
                               ingress and egress easement
                               between NNN Reit, LP
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a
                               contract with Light s
                               Enterprises, Inc. for the
                               purchase of all labor,
159, 2024          9-26-2024   materials, equipment and     TSO VII
                               services for the commercial
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 120 20th
                               Street for the Fire
                               Department
                               Authorizing and approving
                               change order no. 2 between
160, 2024          9-26-2024   the city and Allard          TSO VII
                               Excavation LLC for the
                               Winchester Avenue
                               improvements project
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor Pro-Tem to execute
                               a subordination and
                               intercreditor agreement
161, 2024          9-26-2024   between the city and         TSO XI
                               Community Trust Bank, Inc.,
                               Horizon Bank, and Harbor
                               Hill, LLC regarding a
                               community development block
                               grant loan
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a
                               memorandum of agreement
162, 2024          9-26-2024   terms and conditions between TSO VII
                               the Commonwealth and the
                               city in the amount of
                               $25,000,000 for construction
                               of a conference center
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor, to execute an
                               agreement between the city
                               and the Paramount Arts
163, 2024          9-26-2024   Center, Inc. for the         TSO XIII
                               purchase of 1300, 1316 and
                               1322 Winchester Avenue, 332
                               13th Street and 333 14th
                               Street by the city
164, 2024          10-24-2024  Voucher program; city        155.04
                               development
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
165, 2024          10-24-2024  agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and Flottweg Separation
                               Technology Inc.
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
166, 2024          10-24-2024  agreement between the city   TSO VII
                               and Atlas Copco Compressors
                               LLC
                               Authorizing and directing
167, 2024          10-24-2024  the Mayor to execute an      TSO VII
                               agreement between the city
                               and Everett J. Prescott Inc.
                               Authorizing and approving
168, 2024          10-24-2024  change order no. 3 between   TSO VII
                               the city and A Plus
                               Contractors LLC
                               Adopting a relief plan for
                               net profit tax credit to
                               provide relief to qualifying
169, 2024          10-24-2024  businesses negatively        TSO IV
                               affected by the downtown
                               streetscape construction
                               project
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a
                               contract between the city
170, 2024          10-25-2024  and Mechanical Construction  TSO VII
                               Company for the 26th Street
                               pump station rehabilitation
                               project
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a bill
171, 2024          10-25-2024  of sale between the city and TSO VII
                               Kentucky Power Company for
                               the purchase of the
                               streetlight poles
                               Procedural regulations for   33.15 -
172, 2024          10-25-2024  hiring in the Fire           33.38
                               Department
                               Amending the family medical
                               leave policy under Part XVI
173, 2024          10-25-2024  (Appendix J) of the policies Not included
                               and procedures as adopted by
                               Ord. 51, 2017
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
174, 2024          10-25-2024  agreement with Community     TSO VII
                               Assistance Referral Service,
                               Inc. (CARES)
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
175, 2024          10-25-2024  agreement with Community     TSO VII
                               Assistance Referral Service,
                               Inc. (CARES)
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor Pro-Tem to execute
176, 2024          10-25-2024  an agreement with Safe       TSO VII
                               Harbor of Northeast
                               Kentucky, Inc.
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
                               agreement between the city
177, 2024          10-25-2024  and UK King s Daughters      TSO IX
                               regarding an encroachment
                               for the installation of
                               signs
                               Adopting the revised job
                               descriptions for the
                               positions of City Planner,
                               Economic Development
                               Specialist and Program and
                               Grant Administrator in the
178, 2024          10-25-2024  Department of Community and  Not included
                               Economic Development, of the
                               classification and
                               compensation plan as adopted
                               by Ordi. 31, 2023, as
                               previously amended,
                               specifically by Ord. 82,
                               2023
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute an
179, 2024          10-25-2024  agreement between the city   TSO IX
                               and Boyd Company for the
                               purchase of a generator and
                               automatic transfer switches
                               Authorizing and directing
                               the Mayor to execute a
180, 2024          10-25-2024  preliminary design services  TSO IX
                               agreement between the city
                               and AP3, LLC
                               Authorizing additional
                               public project to be
181, 2024          11-14-2024  financed with the proceeds   TSO III
                               of the general obligation
                               bonds, Series 2024A
                               Amending flexible spending
182, 2024          11-14-2024  plan adopted by Ord. 86,     TSO VII
                               2020
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Light s Enterprises,
                               Inc. for purchase of all
                               labor, materials, equipment
184, 2024          12-12-2024  and services for demolition  TSO XVII
                               and removal of debris of
                               1213 Gallaher Drive in the
                               amount of $3,200; repealed
                               by Ord. 46, 2025
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Light s Enterprises,
                               Inc. for purchase of all
185, 2024          12-12-2024  labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for demolition
                               and removal of debris of
                               3220 Hampton Street in the
                               amount of $4,900
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Light s Enterprises,
                               Inc. for purchase of all
186, 2024          12-12-2024  labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for demolition
                               and removal of debris of 804
                               Montgomery Avenue in the
                               amount of $7,900
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Womack Excavating, LLC
                               for the demolition, removal,
187, 2024          12-12-2024  disposal and cleanup of all  TSO VII
                               debris at 5340 Blackburn
                               Avenue in the amount of
                               $2,900
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Womack Excavating, LLC
188, 2024          12-12-2024  for the demolition, removal, TSO VII
                               disposal and cleanup of all
                               debris at 2156 Eltura Street
                               in the amount of $6,500
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Womack Excavating, LLC
189, 2024          12-12-2024  for the demolition, removal, TSO VII
                               disposal and cleanup of all
                               debris at 361 Ferry Street
                               in the amount of $3,200
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Womack Excavating, LLC
                               for the demolition, removal,
190, 2024          12-12-2024  disposal and cleanup of all  TSO VII
                               debris at 829 Montgomery
                               Avenue in the amount of
                               $3,000
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Womack Excavating, LLC
                               for the demolition, removal,
191, 2024          12-12-2024  disposal and cleanup of all  TSO VII
                               debris at 4914 Sherwood
                               Drive in the amount of
                               $4,800
                               Authorization of contract
                               with C.J. Hughes
                               Construction Co., Inc. for
193, 2024          12-12-2024  the Carr Street/Packard      TSO VII
                               Avenue and Iroquis Avenue
                               sanitary sewer line
                               replacement project in the
                               amount of $391,476
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Judy Construction
194, 2024          12-12-2024  Company for the Roberts      TSO VII
                               Drive screen replacement
                               project in the amount of
                               $2,968,000
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Prichard Lawncare, Inc.
195, 2024          12-12-2024  for purchase of all labor    TSO VII
                               and materials for tree
                               trimming for a two-year
                               period
                               Authorization of contract
196, 2024          12-12-2024  with BWC Trucking, Inc. for  TSO VII
                               purchase of gravel, stone
                               and sand
                               Revised job descriptions and
197, 2024          12-12-2024  compensation plans for       Not included
                               custodians and facilities
                               manager
                               Adding one part-time school
198, 2024          12-12-2024  resource officer in the      Not included
                               Police Department
                               Authorization contract with
                               Ashland Independent School
199, 2024          12-12-2024  District to add one          TSO VII
                               additional school resource
                               officer
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with James Westenhoefer for
200, 2024          12-12-2024  Shelter of Hope, Inc.        TSO VII
                               regarding garnishment of
                               funds
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of 2024 community
                               development block grant
201, 2024          12-12-2024  annual action plan amendment TSO IV
                               to the U.S. Department of
                               Housing and Urban
                               Development
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Coordinated
202, 2024          12-12-2024  System Consulting, Inc. for  TSO IV
                               the 42" raw water lines
                               rehabilitation project
                               Approving economic
                               development incentive
                               program application of Big
                               Sandy Distribution, Inc. for
203, 2024          12-12-2024  property located at 1325     TSO XVIII
                               Green Avenue, providing for
                               the reimbursement of parking
                               fees for the parking lot
                               located at 1405 Greenup
                               Avenue
                               Restricting use of
204, 2024          12-12-2024  $2,000,000 in general fund   Not included
                               for economic development
                               Comprehensive hiring
205, 2024          12-12-2024  ordinance for the Police     34.02
                               Department; repealing Ord.
                               116, 2024
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Light s Enterprises,
                               Inc. for purchase of all
                               labor, materials, equipment
206, 2024          12-13-2024  and services for the         TSO VII
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 100 Belmont
                               Street in the amount of
                               $5,800
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Light s Enterprises,
                               Inc. for purchase of all
                               labor, materials, equipment
207, 2024          12-13-2024  and services for the         TSO VII
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 2414 Beech
                               Street in the amount of
                               $7,600
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Womack Excavating, LLC
208, 2024          12-13-2024  for the demolition, removal, TSO VII
                               disposal and cleanup of all
                               debris at 3107 Powell Street
                               in the amount of $4,500
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Judy Construction
209, 2024          12-13-2024  Company for Johnson Fork,    TSO VII
                               Baugess Drive and Florida
                               Street water booster station
                               project
                               Authorization of change
                               order with the Department of
210, 2024          12-13-2024  Engineering and Consultants, TSO IV
                               LLC for the contract
                               regarding the water tank
                               replacement project
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of application to FEMA for
                               the assistance to
211, 2024          12-13-2024  firefighter s grant in the   TSO XI
                               amount of $650,000 for the
                               purchase of a regional air
                               and light truck for the Fire
                               Department
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of application to FEMA for
212, 2024          12-13-2024  the assistance to            TSO XI
                               firefighter s grant for
                               $65,000 for rescue training
                               and firefighting equipment
                               Authorization of agreement
213, 2024          12-13-2024  with Michael Graese          TSO VII
                               regarding his employment as
                               City Manager
214, 2024          12-13-2024  Establishing pedestrian      Ch. 74, Sch. VI
                               crosswalks
                               Regulations for garbage,
                               rubbish and related waste    50.190;
                               materials; establishment of  150.194;
                               solid waste division;        51.30;
                               establishing sewer and water 51.38;
215, 2024          12-13-2024  rates, tap fees,             54.01;
                               installation charges,        51.09;
                               service charges, industrial  55.01;
                               pretreatment charges,        55.04;
                               penalty and interest; and    55.99
                               repealing Ord. 93, 2024 and
                               Ord. 143, 2024
                               Authorization contract with
                               C.J. Hughes Construction
216, 2024          12-13-2024  Company, Inc. for the 2022   TSO VII
                               water and sewer capital
                               improvements plan sewer line
                               and repair project
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Martin Painting
217, 2024          12-13-2024  and Coating Company          TSO IV
                               regarding the Debord Hill
                               water tank rehabilitation
                               project
                               Amending the employee
218, 2024          12-13-2024  manual; repealing Ord. 91,   Not included
                               2011
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with Ashland Church of God
219, 2024          12-13-2024  for purchase of real estate  TSO VII
                               for the purpose of a water
                               utility easement
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with AP3, LLC for the
220, 2024          12-13-2024  development, design and      TSO IV
                               construction of the city
                               conference center project
                               Adopting employee
221, 2024          12-13-2024  classification and           Not included
                               compensation plan
1, 2025            1-10-2025   Repealing Ord. 164, 2023     Not included
2, 2025            1-10-2025   Board of Commissioners       30.06
                               meetings
                               Establishment of line of
3, 2025            1-10-2025   credit on behalf of the city Not included
                               to borrow sufficient funds
                               for operational expenses
                               Authorization of change
                               order for Mechanical
4, 2025            1-10-2025   Construction Company for the TSO IV
                               26th Street pump station
                               rehabilitation project
                               Adoption of Housing Choice
5, 2025            1-10-2025   Voucher (HCV) program        155.04
                               utility allowance schedule
6, 2025            1-10-2025   Conference Center Advisory   Not included
                               Committee appointment
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with the Kentucky
                               Transportation Department
7, 2025            2-11-2025   for construction of the      TSO XI
                               Winchester Avenue
                               streetscape project from
                               13th Street to 18th Street
                               Authorization of executive
                               task order with Strand
8, 2025            2-11-2025   Associations, Inc. for       TSO VII
                               preparation of 2024 combined
                               sewer overflow reports for
                               the Utilities Department
9, 2025            2-11-2025   Repealing Ord. 103, 2024     Not included
                               Amending employee
10, 2025           2-11-2025   classification and           Not included
                               compensation plan
11, 2025           2-11-2025   Adopting Police Department   34.02
                               rules and regulations
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Mechanical
12, 2025           2-17-2025   Construction Company for the TSO IV
                               26th Street pump station
                               rehabilitation project
                               Amending employee
13, 2025           2-27-2025   classification and           Not included
                               compensation plan
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Light s
14, 2025           2-27-2025   Enterprises, Inc. to         TSO IV
                               increase the contract amount
                               by $1,600 for the demolition
                               of 2414 Beech Street
15, 2025           2-27-2025   Ashland Conference Center    Not included
                               Committee appointment
                               Authorization of change
                               order for Mechanical
16, 2025           3-4-2025    Constriction Company for the TSO IV
                               26th Street pump station
                               rehabilitation project
                               Authorization of contract
                               with JMK Electric Company,
                               Inc. to furnish all labor,
17, 2025           3-4-2025    materials, supervision and   TSO VII
                               safety to install a backup
                               generator for the Police
                               Department
                               Approving loan to M&J s
18, 2025           3-4-2025    Rolling Caf , LLC in the     TSO IV
                               amount of $50,000
                               Authorization of
19, 2025           3-4-2025    appropriations for Ashland   Not included
                               Conference Center
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of application to KYOVA
20, 2025           3-4-2025    Interstate Planning          TSO IV
                               Commission for $750,000 for
                               Winchester Avenue
                               streetscape project
                               Authorization of bill of
                               sale with Kentucky Power
21, 2025           3-4-2025    Company for purchase of the  TSO VII
                               streetlight poles located on
                               Winchester Avenue
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with USALCO, LLC for the
22, 2025           3-27-2025   tank level monitoring system TSO VII
                               installation for the Utility
                               Department operations
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Judy Construction
23, 2025           3-27-2025   Company for the Roberts      TSO IV
                               Drive screen replacement
                               project
                               Authorization of change
24, 2025           3-27-2025   order with Leighty           TSO IV
                               Contracting, LLC for the
                               sidewalk replacement project
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Boyd County Sanitary
25, 2025           3-27-2025   Landfill, Inc. (Rumpke) for  TSO XI
                               a suitable landfill location
                               for one year
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Mechanical
26, 2025           3-27-2025   Construction Company for the TSO IV
                               26th Street pump station
                               rehabilitation project
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of Kentucky Pride Fund
                               recycling grant application
27, 2025           3-27-2025   to the Kentucky Department   TSO XI
                               for Environmental Protection
                               for household hazardous
                               waste program
                               Authorizing consulting
                               agreement with Harrison
                               Consulting, LLC to provide
28, 2025           3-27-2025   consulting services and      TSO VII
                               oversight of the
                               construction of a conference
                               center
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
                               for the purchase of all
29, 2025           4-1-2025    labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for the
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 2143 Thomas
                               Street
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
                               for the purchase of all
30, 2025           4-1-2025    labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for the
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 2200 Smith
                               Street
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
                               for the purchase of all
31, 2025           4-1-2025    labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for the
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 3128 Central
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
                               for the purchase of all
32, 2025           4-1-2025    labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for the
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 2740 Carter
                               Avenue
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Light s Enterprises, Inc.
                               for the purchase of all
33, 2025           4-1-2025    labor, materials, equipment  TSO VII
                               and services for the
                               demolition and removal of
                               all debris of 621 27th
                               Street
                               Authorizing contract with
                               Leighty Contracting, LLC for
34, 2025           4-1-2025    the purchase and             TSO VII
                               installation of concrete at
                               Dawson Pool
                               Authorizing execution of
                               amendment to agreement with
                               GRW Engineers, Inc. to
                               provide engineering services
35, 2025           4-1-2025    in connection with the       TSO VII
                               design, construction and
                               agency approvals of the 2022
                               water and sewer capital
                               improvements project
                               Authorizing change order
                               with C.J. Hughes
                               Construction Company, Inc.
36, 2025           4-1-2025    for the 2022 water and sewer TSO IV
                               capital improvements plan
                               sewer line and repair
                               project
                               Designating certain one
37, 2025           4-1-2025    direction streets; repealing Ch. 74, Sch. V
                               Ord. 137, 2000
                               Authorizing purchase
38, 2025           4-1-2025    agreement with Brooks Wells, TSO VII
                               Inc. for the purchase of 341
                               14th Street by the city
                               Authorization of
                               installation of stop signs
39, 2025           4-1-2025    on Central Avenue at its     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                               intersection with 23rd
                               Street, 24th Street and 25th
                               Street
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Rumpke of Kentucky,
                               Inc. for the removal and
40, 2025           4-1-2025    disposition of sludge from   TSO VII
                               the city wastewater
                               treatment plant and water
                               treatment plant for one year
                               Authorization of change
41, 2025           4-1-2025    order with CTB, Inc. for the TSO IV
                               17th Street city hall
                               entrance project
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of 2019 Community
                               Development Block Grant
42, 2025           4-8-2025    (CDBG) annual action plan    TSO IV
                               amendment to the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of 2020 Community
                               Development Block Grant
43, 2025           4-8-2025    (CDBG) annual action plan    TSO IV
                               amendment to the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development
                               Authorization of submittal
                               of 2023 Community
                               Development Block Grant
44, 2025           4-8-2025    (CDBG) annual action plan    TSO IV
                               amendment to the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development
                               Adopting the Community
45, 2025           4-8-2025    Development Block Grant      TSO IV
                               amended five-year
                               consolidated plan
46, 2025           4-24-2025   Repealing Ord. 184, 2024     Not included
                               Authorizing change order
                               with CTB, Inc. for the
47, 2025           4-24-2025   Ashland Senior Center        TSO IV
                               storefront rehabilitation
                               project
48, 2025           4-24-2025   Amending job descriptions in Not included
                               the Police Department
                               Authorization of purchase
                               agreement with Paramount
                               Arts Center, Inc. permitting
50, 2025           4-24-2025   the Paramount Arts Center,   TSO VII
                               Inc. to continue to operate
                               and lease the theater
                               through December 31, 2025
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Everett J.
                               Prescott, Inc. for
51, 2025           4-24-2025   installation of insertion    TSO IV
                               valves for the U.S. 23
                               waterline replacement
                               project
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with HDR Engineering
52, 2025           4-24-2025   Services for the             TSO VII
                               optimization and growth
                               distribution system modeling
                               project
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Allard
53, 2025           4-24-2025   Excavation, LLC for the      TSO IV
                               Winchester Avenue
                               improvements project
                               Authorization of change
                               order for C.J. Hughes
                               Construction Company, Inc.
54, 2025           4-25-2025   for the Carr Street/Packard  TSO IV
                               Avenue and Iroquois Avenue
                               sanitary sewer line
                               replacement project
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Brenntag Mid-South,
                               Inc. for the purchase of
                               powdered activated carbon at
55, 2025           4-25-2025   a price of $1.19 per pound,  TSO VII
                               hydrofluosilicic acid at a
                               price of $3.39 per pounds
                               and sodium hypochlorite at a
                               price of $1.8625 per gallon
                               for the Utility Department
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Chemrite, Inc. for the
56, 2025           4-25-2025   purchase of potassium        TSO VII
                               permanganate at a price of
                               $2.12 per pound for the
                               Utilities Department
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Citco Water for the
                               purchase of aluminum sulfate
57, 2025           4-25-2025   at a price of $1.761 per     TSO VII
                               gallon and sand at a price
                               of $0.107 per pound for the
                               Utilities Department
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Evonik Corporation for
58, 2025           4-25-2025   the purchase of peracetic    TSO VII
                               acid at a price of $0.797
                               per pounds for the Utilities
                               Department
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Polydyne, Inc. for the
                               purchase of liquid polymer
                               for the water treatment
                               plant at a price of $17.114
59, 2025           4-25-2025   per gallon, for the          TSO VII
                               wastewater treatment plant
                               at a price of $15.308 per
                               gallon and polymer cationic
                               at a price of $2.41 per
                               pound for the Utilities
                               Department
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Univar Solutions USA,
60, 2025           4-25-2025   Inc. for the purchase of     TSO VII
                               liquid caustic soda at a
                               price of $1.077 per gallon
                               for the Utilities Department
                               Authorization of contract
                               with USALCO, LLC for the
61, 2025           4-25-2025   purchase of poly-aluminum    TSO VII
                               chloride (PAC) at a price of
                               $3.2814 per gallon for the
                               Utilities Department
                               Authorization of agreement
62, 2025           4-25-2025   with King s Daughters and    TSO VII
                               Sons Home for a fence
                               replacement project
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Tri-State Construction
63, 2025           4-25-2025   for the King s Daughters and TSO IV
                               Sons Home fence replacement
                               project
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with Kentucky Combined Sewer
                               Overflow Coalition, Strand
                               Associates, Inc., and
64, 2025           4-25-2025   English, Lucas, Priest and   TSO VII
                               Owsley regarding regulatory
                               approaches to terminating
                               long-term control plans with
                               the Kentucky Energy and
                               Environmental Cabinet
                               Authorization of agreement
65, 2025           5-22-2025   with King s Daughters and    TSO IV
                               Sons Home for the parking
                               lot repaving project
                               Authorization of contract
                               with Tri-State Construction
66, 2025           5-22-2025   for the King s Daughters and TSO IV
                               Sons Home parking lot
                               repaving project
                               Authorization of change
67, 2025           5-22-2025   order with CTB, Inc. for the TSO IV
                               17th Street city hall
                               exterior upgrades project
                               Authorization of amended
68, 2025           5-22-2025   agreement with Hazen and     TSO IV
                               Sawyer for the lead and
                               copper rule program
                               Adopting the Streamlined
                               Public Housing Agency (PHA)
                               five-year plan and one-year
                               plan to comply with Section
69, 2025           5-22-2025   511 of the Quality Housing   TSO IV
                               and Work Responsibility Act
                               and ensuing HUD requirements
                               to be submitted to the U.S.
                               Department of Housing and
                               Urban Development
                               Adopting revised Civil
70, 2025           5-22-2025   Rights Assurance Program     TSO IV
                               (Title VI)
                               Authorization of change
                               order with Mechanical
71, 2025           5-22-2025   Construction Company for the TSO IV
                               26th Street pump station
                               rehabilitation project
                               Authorization of agreement
                               with Ashland Bus System and
72, 2025           5-22-2025   the Kentucky Transportation  TSO VII
                               Cabinet for a FY 2025
                               capital state match contract
                               grant
                                                          
 
