BLUE RIDGE MANOR, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the Blue
Ridge Manor Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Blue Ridge Manor irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Blue Ridge Manor, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
City Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the City Commission in
enacting any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held
unconstitutional the remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the
ordinance provides otherwise, or unless the remaining parts are so essentially
and inseparably connected with and dependent upon the unconstitutional part
that it is apparent that the City Commission would not have enacted the
remaining parts without the unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining
parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the intent of the City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of the City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to
the effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of the City Commission, as long
as the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of the City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until the City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
CHAPTER 11: CITY BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Official city boundaries
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The official city boundaries are kept by the City Clerk and are available,
upon request in the authorized manner from said City Clerk, for inspection by
the public.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan,” and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 through 83A.120
govern the city.
(KRS 83A.140(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission, and by
other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.140(2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
Statutory reference:
   Legislative body composition, see KRS 83A.030(2)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.17   Indemnification of elected officials for losses arising out of certain
tort actions
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk
   
31.32   City Treasurer/Tax Administrator
   
31.33   Bonds of Clerk and Treasurer/Tax Administrator
   
31.34   City Attorney
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this state, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by Ky. Const. § 228.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with Ky. Const. § 246, which provides that
the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per
annum.
      (2)   The City Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk and
City Treasurer/Tax Administrator.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials, and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as
security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s
control. The amount of the bond shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle. The city shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS 65.067)
**** ELECTED OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
§ 31.16 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), KRS 83A.040(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be submitted
through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail
address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation
shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City
Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs in the office of
Mayor which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the
City Commission or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the
appointment, shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130
through 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office, and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
§ 31.17 INDEMNIFICATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS FOR LOSSES ARISING OUT OF CERTAIN
TORT ACTIONS.
   In the absence of appropriate insurance coverage:
   (A)   The city shall provide for the defense of any elected official in any
action in tort arising out of an act or omission occurring within the scope of
his or her office;
   (B)   The city shall pay any judgment based thereon or any compromise or
settlement of any such action in tort except as provided in division (C) below;
and
   (C)   The city may refuse to pay a judgment or settlement in any action
against an elected official:
      (1)   If the city pays any claim or judgment against any elected official
pursuant to division (B) above, it may recover against said elected official
the amount of said payment and the cost to defend it if the elected official
failed to act because of fraud, malice, or corruption;
      (2)   The action was outside the scope of his or her duties; or
      (3)   The elected official willfully refused to assist in the defense of
the cause of action in good faith.
(Prior Code, § 31.22) (Ord. 220.19, passed 4-28-1986)
**** NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Treasurer/Tax Administrator; and
      (3)   City Attorney.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2) and 83A.080(3)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
City Clerk shall be subject to the supervision of the Commissioner for
Community Affairs and Public Records and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   To act as official custodian of all city records and keep the
minutes of the proceedings of the City Commission, prepare the meeting agenda,
and to provide the final draft minutes and agenda to the city officials on the
Friday prior to the Monday meeting;
      (2)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (3)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882. The Clerk in coordination with
the City Attorney shall handle and respond to all open record requests made to
the city;
      (4)   The City Clerk shall, no later than January 31 of each year, mail
to the Department for Local Government, a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the correct name of the Mayor, City
Commissioners, and the nonelected officials who are serving as of January 1 of
each year. The official title/address for the City of Blue Ridge Manor is:
         City Clerk, City of Blue Ridge Manor
         101 Shelby Pointe Drive
         Louisville, KY 40223
      (5)   In addition and in coordination with the City Attorney to the
duties specified above, the City Clerk is also responsible for the publication
of legal advertisements of the city and a summary or text of the budget
ordinance upon adoption.
   (B)   Compensation. The compensation for the position of City Clerk shall be
set by the City Commission and shall be established from time to time by
ordinance of the Commission.
   (C)   Oath. The City Clerk shall be required to take an oath of office as
set out in §
31.01 and execute a bond as set out in §
31.33.
   (D)   Duration of office. This nonelected officer serves at the will of the
City Commission. The term of office shall be for one calendar year. Each
December, the City Commission shall review this nonelected position and either
reappoint for another one-year term or appoint another person to the position.
However, this requirement shall in no way limit the at-will dismissal power of
the City Commission.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
   (E)   Supervision. The City Clerk shall work under the supervision of and in
coordination with the Commissioner in charge of Community Affairs and Public
Records.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 7-13-2011)
§ 31.32 CITY TREASURER/TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
City Treasurer/Tax Administrator are assisting and preparing the budget and
accounting for all city monies. In addition, the City Treasurer/Tax
Administrator shall perform the duties of tax collector.
   (B)   Compensation. The compensation for the position of City Treasurer/Tax
Administrator shall be established from time to time by ordinance of the
Commission.
   (C)   Bond. This nonelected official shall be bonded in an amount to be
determined by the Commission in accordance with §
31.33.
   (D)   Oath. The Treasurer/Tax Administrator shall take the oath as set out
in §
31.01.
   (E)   Duration of office. This nonelected officer serves at the will of the
City Commission. The term of office shall be for one calendar year. Each
December, the City Commission shall review this nonelected position and either
reappoint for another one-year term or appoint another person to the position.
However, this requirement shall in no way limit the at will dismissal power of
the City Commission.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
   (F)   Supervision. The Treasurer/Tax Administrator shall work under the
supervision of and in coordination with the Commissioner in charge of the
Department of Public Property and Finance.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 7-13-2011)
§ 31.33 BONDS OF CLERK AND TREASURER/TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Clerk and Treasurer/Tax Administrator shall each, before entering
upon the duties of their respective offices, execute a bond to the city in such
penal sum of $5,000, conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her
duties, including the duties of all offices of which he or she is ex officio
incumbent. The bonds shall be approved by the City Commission. The bond of the
Treasurer/Tax Administrator shall be filed with the Clerk, and the bond of the
Clerk shall be filed with the Chairperson of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 31.38)
§ 31.34 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The City Attorney serves as a general
legal officer and counsel for the city. The Attorney’s duties can include
advising city officials on legal matters pertaining to the interest(s) of the
city, representing the city in legal actions in which the city is an interested
party or arranging for representation of same and attendance at legislative
body meetings on a monthly basis, impose delinquent property liens, review all
open record requests, periodically (according to state law) conduct ordinance
review, and, in coordination with the City Clerk, officially publish all items
required by law to be published.
   (B)   Compensation. The compensation for the position of City Attorney shall
be established from time to time by ordinance of the Commission. The
compensation shall be established as an annual retainer. Any thing not covered
by the annual retainer shall be approved by the Commission.
   (C)   Oath. Each nonelected officer shall be required to take an oath of
office as set out in §
31.01.
   (D)   Duration of office. This nonelected officer serves at the will of the
City Commission. The term of office shall be for one calendar year. Each
December, the City Commission shall review this nonelected position and either
reappoint for another one-year term or appoint another person to the position.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 7-13-2011)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.35   Official city records
   
32.36   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.37   Publication requirements
   
32.38   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.39   Periodic review required
   
32.40   Municipal orders
   
32.41   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.42   Legislative immunity
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commission
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or
her election and shall be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the officials’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the City Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City
Commission which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment,
the City Commission or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the
appointment, shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on the City
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
(KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate these funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources.
   (E)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to ensure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his or her employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a city
administrative officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
**** RULES OF PROCEDURE ****
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.16
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The regular monthly meeting of the City Commission shall be held
at 6:00 p.m. on the fourth Monday of each month, unless the same being a legal
holiday or for other circumstances, in which event, the meeting shall be held
on the fourth Wednesday at 6:00 p.m. at the same location and time unless
otherwise noticed in compliance with the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (2)   All Commission meetings shall be held at the Trinity Presbyterian
Church located at 10200 Shelbyville Road Louisville, KY 40223. The provisions
of KRS 61.805 et seq. and 61.820 shall apply to all proceedings.
      (3)   Those requiring handicapped or other special requirements, please
contact the Mayor and/or City Clerk at (502) 822-1779 and/or
cityofblueridgemanorky@gmail.com.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under KRS 83A.060(8) and § 31.36, and
by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7))
(Ord. 130.1, passed 1-25-1982; Ord. 1-2024, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
**** ORDINANCES ****
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Blue Ridge Manor.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.37 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.34 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.35 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(A) and
32.36, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.36 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), KRS 83A.060(8)(b))
§ 32.37 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Commission. If the Commission elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.38 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.39 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.40 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be
in writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.41 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.42 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Commissioners shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Department of Public Property and Finance
   
33.02   Department of Public Works and Sanitation
   
33.03   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
33.04   Department of Community Affairs and Public Records
   
33.05   Department of Public Safety
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND FINANCE.
   The Commissioner shall have charge and direction over the following
functions:
   (A)   The Commissioner of Public Property and Finance shall supervise and
work in coordination with the City Treasurer/Tax Administrator on all financial
accounts of the city;
   (B)   Shall cause every officer (elected and nonelected alike) of the city
who receives or disburses money to keep proper accounts and records thereof;
   (C)   The City Treasurer/Tax Administrator shall be under the supervision of
the Commissioner for the Department of Public Property and Finance;
   (D)   In coordination with the City Treasurer/Tax Administrator shall
collect all license fees, franchises or other taxes, rents, and monies due to
the city;
   (E)   Shall report to the Commission all delinquent accounts and outstanding
amounts due to the city from any source with proposals for remedial action; and
   (F)   Shall have charge and supervision of all property belonging to or used
by the city and shall cause and supervise such improvements, repairs, and
cleaning of city property as may be necessary.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 33.02 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SANITATION.
   The Commissioner shall have charge and direction over the following
functions:
   (A)   Streets, sidewalks, including the construction, repairs, improvement,
and cleaning of public roadways within the city;
   (B)   Service, repair, and replacement of water and sewer distribution lines
and related facilities; and
   (C)   All matters involving sanitation and recycling, including the
contracting between the city and a third-party provider for sanitation/
recycling services and the pick-up of other debris from within the city.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 33.03 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Commissioner shall have charge, direction, and supervision over the
following functions:
   (A)   Planning and development of Hardesty Park and maintenance of park
playground equipment and such improvements, repairs, and cleaning of city
property including the parking area(s), benches, and picnic tables, as may be
necessary;
   (B)   Permits to use park areas; and
   (C)   Landscaping over park and public areas and general city
beautification.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 33.04 DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The Commissioner shall have charge and direction over the following
functions:
   (A)   Distribution of information to citizens, development and maintenance
of newsletter, and various forms of distribution of message;
   (B)   Public outreach and education;
   (C)   Grant procurement/writing; and
   (D)   City-wide events, picnics, concerts, and cleanup (Brightside).
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 33.05 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The Commissioner shall have charge and direction over the following
functions:
   (A)   Coordination between the Fire Department and law enforcement within
the city, including contracting with a law enforcement agency to provide a
specific number of patrol hours in the city; and
   (B)   Oversee and act as a liaison for all matters and activities relating
to the occurrence of disaster(s) or emergency and safety situations within the
city including, but not limited to, directional signage/lighting and street/
front entrance lighting.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
(KRS 61.870(9))
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records in any form for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of
a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or a written application by any person to inspect the
public records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
through e.
(KRS 61.870(10))
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
**** PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS ****
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail, or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884,
and the requested public records are immediately available, the custodian shall
deliver the records for inspection. A person may inspect public records at the
designated office of the city during the regular office hours, or in
appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of his, her, or its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by another statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or the commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining
to criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. of this
section; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in §
34.19, to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security
and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law, being
KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party.
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   (1)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to deny,
abridge, or impede the right of a public agency employee, including university
employees, an applicant for employment, or an eligible on a register to inspect
and to copy any record, including preliminary and other supporting
documentation, that relates to him or her. These records shall include, but not
be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions,
compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary
actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other supporting
documentation.
      (2)   A public agency employee, including university employees,
applicant, or eligible shall not have the right to inspect or to copy any
examination or any documents relating to ongoing criminal or administrative
investigations by an agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
   (E)    When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) above, the city shall not be required to make a copy of the recording
except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties shall not be
limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Finance and Revenue
   
35.01   Annual budget ordinance
   
35.02   Purchases and contracts
   
35.03   Economic development revenue bonds
Taxation
   
35.15   Ad valorem taxes on property
**** FINANCE AND REVENUE ****
§ 35.01 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Annual budget ordinance standards.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (2)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenues
from all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specific programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principal and interest due on debt, for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total of proposed activities.
      (3)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent with
form, to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (4)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in KRS 91A.030(7); and
         (b)   A budget summary, as specified in division (A)(5) below
supported by:
            1.   An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
division (A)(6) below;
            2.   An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the city;
            3.   Proposed expenditures; and
            4.   An estimate of anticipated transfers, as specified in division
(A)(9) below.
      (5)   At the head of the annual budget proposal, there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, and proposed expenditures by program, function,
activity, or objectives of the city, in such manner as to present a simple and
clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
      (6)   Each fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to
the amount by which assets are estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning
of the budget year.
      (7)   The ANTICIPATED REVENUES are the total of the amount of each item
actually received to the time of preparation of the annual budget proposal,
plus anticipated receipts for the remainder of the current fiscal year
estimated as accurately a possible; and the amount of each item anticipated to
be received during the budget year, estimated as accurately as possible.
      (8)   The PROPOSED EXPENDITURES are the total of the amount actually
expended to the time of preparation of the annual budget proposal plus the
expenditures for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as
accurately as possible; and the amount of each item to be appropriated for the
budget year.
      (9)   Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
   (B)   Current annual budget. The annual budget for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2025 and ending June 30, 2026 is hereby adopted as follows.
      (1)   Revenues.
General Fund interest         $6,000
Insurance tax                 $95,000
*Map Fund (includes interest) $15,000
Miscellaneous revenues        $4,000
Property tax                  $200,000
Rental property               $4,250
Total revenue                 $324,250
Notes to Table:
*The Map Fund is a restricted fund comprised of municipal aid funds provided
by the state and can only be utilized for road-related expenses.
 
      (2)   Expenditures.
 
Administration        $95,000
Community affairs/rec $31,250
Parks/Recreation      $78,000
Public safety         $20,000
Public works          $100,000
Total expenditures    $324,250
 
(Ord. 2-1990, passed 6-25-1990; Ord. 3-2025, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 35.02 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Every contract of the city shall be approved by the City Commission
and signed by the Mayor.
   (B)   No contract or purchase shall be made which is at variance with the
annual budget as amended.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures may be used for all items which are
reasonably expected to aggregate less than $7,500 for the fiscal year and such
items shall be determined in writing by the Commission at the beginning of the
fiscal year.
   (D)   All contracts which exceed $7,500 in the aggregate shall be awarded to
the lowest bidder through competitive sealed bidding; provided, the lowest
evaluated bid may be accepted if the basis for evaluation is stated in the
specifications.
   (E)   Competitive sealed bidding may be waived on recommendation of the
Finance Commissioner that an emergency exists which will cause public harm by
the delay required by competitive bidding.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 35.03 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   The City Commission does hereby approve and adopt the set of local
guidelines (the guidelines) and it is hereby ordered that each proposed
building project involving a bond issue must be brought before the City
Commission for discussion and must comply with said guidelines, after which the
City Commission shall pass an ordinance stating its position on the bond issue.
   (B)   The application form (the application) of the State Oversight
Committee is hereby adopted insofar as it is appropriate to be used as an
application for consideration of a bond issue by this City Commission.
   (C)   The Mayor and other appropriate city officials are hereby authorized
to take such further action as may be necessary to carry out the intent of this
section with reference to such economic development project and any other
industrial building projects which may be presented or proposed to the City
Commission pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 910.1, passed 11-15-1984)
**** TAXATION ****
§ 35.15 AD VALOREM TAXES ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   January 1, 2025, is hereby set as the assessment date for all real
property subject to city taxation within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The county assessment of property situated within the city is hereby
adopted as the city assessment for the city ad valorem taxation for the fiscal
year July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026.
   (C)   The tax bills shall be based on the assessment of property within the
corporate limits of the city by the County Property Valuation Administrator
(PVA). Said bills shall be prepared by the PVA and mailed by the City Clerk.
Each tax bill shall show the lot and block number, assessment of real property
and improvements, if any, the name of the supposed owner, the ad valorem tax
rate as set in division (E) below, and the total amount due.
   (D)   Upon delivery of such tax bills, the City Treasurer/Tax Administrator
shall receive all remittances and account to the city. Collection of all
delinquent taxes shall be made in the manner prescribed by law and division (F)
below.
   (E)   The ad valorem tax rate for the fiscal year July 1, 2025 to June 30,
2026 for the city is hereby fixed at $0.20 per $100 valuation of property
assessed for taxation. Said tax shall be due and payable as follows:
      (1)   If paid on or before September 15, 2025, face value of tax bill
less 15% discount;
      (2)   If paid on or before October 15, 2025, face amount of tax bill; and
      (3)   If paid after October 15, 2025, face value of tax bill plus a one-
time penalty of 15%, plus interest at the rate of 1% per month, or part thereof
until paid in full.
   (F)   If the tax bill is not paid by October 31, 2025, the City Clerk will
send a letter to the taxpayer informing them that the tax bill is delinquent
and include the outstanding balance owed with penalties and interest. If the
tax bill is not paid by November 15, 2025, the City Clerk will turn the matter
over to the City Attorney who will write the taxpayer a letter with an enclosed
unfiled delinquent tax lien informing the resident/owner that the lien will be
lodged against the subject property unless the current outstanding balance is
paid in full by December 1, 2025. If the bill is not satisfied or no response
is received by December 1, 2025, the City Attorney will file and record the
lien and provide copies to the City Clerk and Treasurer/Tax Administrator.
   (G)   The proceeds of such taxes are to be used to fund the general
operation of the city for the fiscal budget year July 1, 2025 through June 30,
2026.
(Ord. 2-2025, passed 6-23-2025)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Findings
   
36.03   Purpose and authority
   
36.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.17   Receipt of gifts
   
36.18   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
36.19   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.20   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.21   Post-employment restriction
   
36.22   Honoraria
   
36.23   Nepotism prohibited
Financial Disclosure
   
36.35   Who must file
   
36.36   When to file statements; amended statements
   
36.37   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
36.38   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
36.39   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
36.40   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
36.55   Board of Ethics created
   
36.56   Alternate members
   
36.57   Facilities and staff
   
36.58   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
36.59   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.60   Notice of hearings
   
36.61   Hearing procedure
   
36.62   Appeals
   
36.63   Limitation of actions
   
36.64   Advisory opinions
   
36.65   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Blue Ridge
Manor Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting his, her, or their public duties.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of his, her, or their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 State General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Blue Ridge Manor, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Manager;
      (5)   The City Administrator;
      (6)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
**** STANDARDS OF CONDUCT ****
§ 36.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; and/or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
   (A)   The prohibition in this division (A) shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee,
is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office,
or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in this division (A) shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
   (B)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall not apply if the contract
is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or
employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (C)
below are satisfied.
   (C)   The prohibition in this division (C) shall not apply in any case where
the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
      (3)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city agency
that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the
public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other
specific reasons; and
      (4)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.18 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.19 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.20 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course or his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the State Open Records Act, being KRS 61.872 through 61.884, at the
time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.21 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.22 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the appearance,
speech, or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s
service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.23 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
September 28, 2020.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
**** FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ****
§ 36.35 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $1,000.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.36 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than the city’s monthly meeting by December 31, 2007. All subsequent statements
of financial interest shall be filed no later than the city’s monthly meeting
in December of each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for the elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.37 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than the city’s monthly meeting
in November of each year. The failure of the Board, or the designated
administrative official, to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or
employee shall not relieve the officer or employee of the obligation to file
the statement.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.38 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the custodian as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.39 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.40 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
36.99
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 36.55 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body (if different from the executive authority). The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this codified ordinance. No member of the Board of Ethics
shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any
position of employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall
serve for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a
term of three years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a
resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment
and shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The members may be
re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if different from
the executive authority) for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of
duties.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority). If a vacancy is not filled by the
executive authority within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of his, her,
or their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a simple majority of the
members.
   (H)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum. In this instance, the presence of the two remaining
members will constitute a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.56 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body (if different than the executive authority) may appoint one alternate
member to the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of three years. Alternate members shall
meet all qualifications and be subject to all the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members of the Board.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.57 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.58 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations about alleged
violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
full City Commission, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter regarding all officers and
employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by issuing
appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the State Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884; and
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.59 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing
and signed by the complainant. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of
a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of
receipt. The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct an inquiry concerning the allegations contained in the
complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the complaint
an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The person shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be heard under oath,
and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall decide based on its inquiry whether the complaint is
within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges a minimal factual basis
to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board concludes that the
complaint is outside of jurisdiction, frivolous, or without factual basis, the
Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to
writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the complainant and to all
officers or employees against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances, such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, give a confidential reprimand to the
officer or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.60 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.61 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceeding.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence it its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal, from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.62 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.63 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.64 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the State Open
Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884, to establish criteria under which
it will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall
be public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.65 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in
a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   Any violation of §
36.16 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered in violation of §
36.16. Additionally, a violation of §
36.16 shall be grounds for removal from office or employment with the city in
accordance with any applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules,
or regulations of the city.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under §
36.40 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation according to §
36.59 or any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee of the city or
any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Specifications for garbage collection contractors
   
50.02   Administration; enforcement
§ 50.01 SPECIFICATIONS FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION CONTRACTORS.
   The specifications required by the city for the person, firm, or corporation
receiving the contract to collect garbage, debris, and refuse within the
corporate limits shall be as stated in the following divisions:
   (A)   To collect all garbage and waste disposal, except as noted
hereinafter, at each house and church, from the rear, within the corporate
limits of the city, said collection to be two days a week each week, including
those with holidays (days to be agreed upon), and to remove and dispose of same
outside of the corporate limits of the city. All collections shall be made from
one location at each house or church and all receptacles shall be returned to
that location in an orderly manner. Excepted from the above conditions of
collection shall be grass, dirt and yard debris which must be placed at the
side of the road or street by the occupant of the house or church. Branches or
other miscellaneous items too large to be placed into garbage cans shall be
tied into bundles, not to exceed four feet in length, and placed at the side of
the road or street by the occupant as noted above. This includes bagged leaves;
   (B)   To maintain adequate telephone facilities in order to receive any
complaints direct from the individual owners or occupants and to correct the
condition within a reasonable time;
   (C)   To carry necessary liability insurance in an amount of not less than
$100,000 and $300,000 and furnish evidence of such insurance and to also carry
full worker’s compensation insurance and furnish the certificate thereof;
   (D)   To furnish and maintain suitable garbage trucks that will comply with
state and local laws pertaining to the operation of such trucks used in the
collection of garbage from the city; to pay all charges connected with the
operation of the trucks;
   (E)   To indemnify, protect and save the city harmless from and against any
and all losses, damages, claims, liability, suits and actions at law or equity,
which may arise or grow out of any injury to or death of persons; and damage to
property occurring while such person or persons or property are on, approaching
or leaving the premises of said city or caused by, arising from or in any
manner connected with the use of said vehicles within said city;
   (F)   All trucks used for collection of garbage will be covered. The
successful bidder further agrees to furnish, at a cost to be agreed upon,
vehicles needed to haul trash and debris from the house in said city on such
special day, or days, as may be specified by the party of the first part, and
without cost to said city, to furnish vehicles to collect Christmas trees on a
day specified;
   (G)   The contractor agrees to perform the collection of garbage in an
orderly manner as to not litter lawns, driveways, or streets;
   (H)   The contractor agrees to render, prior to the fourth Monday of each
month, its invoice for services furnished in the preceding month;
   (I)   Garbage collection contracts extend for one year beginning January 1
of each year; and
   (J)   No solicitation of any type shall be made by the residents.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 830.2, passed - -1982; Ord. 830.7, passed 12-15-
1986; Ord. 830.8, passed 12-28-1987; Ord. 830.9, passed 11-28-1988; Ord.
830.10, passed 12-12-1989)
§ 50.02 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Sanitation shall be responsible for enforcement
and administration of this chapter; including collection of service charges,
the fixing of services charges for businesses, exemptions from payment of the
service charge for any dwelling unit, dates of collection, approval of disposal
device and the promulgation of such rules and guidelines as may appear
necessary for the efficient performance of the service. The Commissioner of
Sanitation may delegate any tasks required of him or her by this chapter to
such persons as he or she may select.
   (B)   Any person who is adversely affected by any act or decision in the
enforcement of this chapter may appeal such act or decision to the City
Commission in writing within two weeks after notice of such act or decision.
The Commission shall hear all evidence concerning the act or decision and any
reason therefor and within one week thereafter shall issue a decision in
writing confirming, modifying, or invalidating the act or decision.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.01   Obedience to signals
   
70.02   Stop or yield signs
   
70.03   Standard electric traffic signals
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Administrative official
 
   
70.99   Penalty
**** TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES ****
§ 70.01 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 STOP OR YIELD SIGNS.
   Stop or yield signs shall be posted on such streets at any intersection the
City Commission shall determine are necessary for proper traffic control.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 STANDARD ELECTRIC TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Standard electric traffic signals, with three colors on a side; or with red
facing one street and amber facing the intersecting street, shall be erected at
such street intersections as the City Commission shall determine to be
necessary for proper traffic control.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 70.15 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   Implementation and enforcement of all traffic regulations of the city shall
be administered by the Commissioner of Safety.
(Prior Code, § 70.10)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Speed limit
   
71.02   Obstruction of intersection or crosswalk
   
71.03   Truck weight limits; exception
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   The speed limit within the city limits shall be 25 mph unless posted
otherwise.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 1-25-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OBSTRUCTION OF INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter any intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of such intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of traffic in or in the intersecting street or crosswalk. This provision shall
be effective notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indicating to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TRUCK WEIGHT LIMITS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with a
gross weight of 18,000 pounds or more on the streets within the city limits.
   (B)   Any person, or his or her agent, may operate a motor vehicle in
violation of this section in order to load or unload furniture and personal
belongings when moving his or her residence either into, within, or out of the
city, or any person contracting with the city for services such as garbage
collection and fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for failure to observe the speed limit as stated in §
71.01 shall constitute a violation and carry a fine consistent with the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Any person violating §
71.02 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person violating §
71.03 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 1-2016, passed 1-25-2016)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.02   Display for sale or repair of parked vehicle
   
72.03   Loading and unloading
   
72.04   Restricting weight limit of parked vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway or alley;
      (2)   No vehicle shall park within ten feet of any fire hydrant; and/or
      (3)   In such a manner as to constitute double parking or to leave
available less than five feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement
of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.01)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on the public
streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way and/or easements within the city. Parking on
a public street (in the proper direction) shall be allowable, on a temporary
basis, when a resident’s driveway is full and a party and/or special event is
taking place at the residence.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle which causes damage
or injury to the surface, structure, and/or foundation of any public roadway
and/or sidewalks within the city by any means including, but not limited to,
oil spillage, hydraulic fluid, or any other injurious substance.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to deface, destroy, remove, or damage any
traffic-control signal/sign, traffic sign, or road marker/device within the
city.
      (4)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store, or
otherwise maintain a motorized boat, commercial van, commercial: pick-up truck,
box truck, tractor truck (an automotive vehicle with a driver’s cab used to
haul trailers), or any vehicle with dual axles and rear tires, truck trailer,
trailer, house trailer, camper, recreational vehicle, motor home, and/or
disabled vehicle within the city, unless it is enclosed within a garage or
other appropriate structure and it is not occupied as a dwelling or sleeping
place. In the event that no garage or appropriate structure exists, then said
vehicle may be stored in the back yard on hard surface (i.e., concrete,
asphalt, or paver blocks), provided it is not occupied as a dwelling or
sleeping place.
         (b)   In addition, a resident who drives a commercial van or pick-up
truck as his or her sole transportation shall be allowed to park the vehicle in
the driveway of the residence. Any vehicle prohibited above traveling within
the city for city business, emergencies, deliveries, and/or being used in
connection with improvements to or maintenance of a residence located in the
city, are hereby exempt from this provision.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(4) above, a city
resident may park his or her motorized boat, house trailer, camper,
recreational vehicle, and/or motor home in the driveway of his or her residence
for a period not to exceed 72 hours for the purpose of loading, unloading,
cleaning, repairing, and/or servicing.
      (6)   A motorized boat, house trailer, camper, recreational vehicle, and/
or motor home owned by a non-resident who is the guest of a resident, may be
parked for a period not to exceed 72 hours in the driveway of the residence in
which the recreational vehicle owner is a guest provided the vehicle is not
occupied as a dwelling or sleeping place.
      (7)   For purposes of this division (B), the time period of 72 hours need
not be continuous.
      (8)   Abandoned/inoperable vehicles must be enclosed within a garage or
structure and out of view of the general public.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 1-25-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 DISPLAY FOR SALE OR REPAIR OF PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, painting, or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   Loading zone signs shall be erected at such places along public
streets in front of business establishments and for such time as determined by
order of the City Commission; and no person shall use such area for any other
purposes during the time indicated on the sign. If no time is specified on the
sign, it shall mean between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
   (B)   No vehicle shall take on or let out passengers except on the right-
hand side of the vehicle which shall be within two feet of the right-hand curb
or edge of the street.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTING WEIGHT LIMIT OF PARKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the streets or public ways of
the city, other than passenger automobiles and trucks of no larger than three-
fourths-ton capacity.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
72.01(A) and
72.02 through
72.04 shall be guilty of a public offense and the police of the city, shall,
after giving 48 hours notice of such violation, be authorized to cause the
offending vehicle to be removed from the city. Further, any person, firm, or
corporation violating §§
72.01(A) and
72.02 through
72.04 shall be fined an amount of not less than $20 nor more than $50 for each
offense. Each day shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   The violation of §
72.01(B)(1) shall constitute a violation and carry a fine consistent with the
Kentucky Revised Statutes. Continuing offenses shall constitute separate and
distinct offenses subject to additional fines.
      (2)   The violation of §
72.01(B)(2) and (B)(3) shall constitute a violation and carry a fine of $100
plus applicable court cost(s) and restitution if warranted. Continuing offenses
shall constitute separate and distinct offenses subject to additional fines.
      (3)   The violation of §
72.01(B)(4) and (B)(6) shall constitute a violation and carry a fine of $150.
Continuing offenses shall constitute separate and distinct offenses subject to
additional fines.
      (4)   The violation of §
72.01(B)(8) shall constitute a violation and carry a fine of $100. Continuing
offenses shall constitute separate and distinct offenses subject to additional
fines.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 1-2016, passed 1-25-2016)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Application to traffic code
   
73.02   Operation of bicycles
   
73.03   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.04   Skating and coasting
   
73.05   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 APPLICATION TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey all traffic signs, signals, and
laws applicable to motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 73.01)
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
   (D)   Bicycles shall be operated on the streets as near to the right-hand
curb or edge as practicable and the operator of a motor vehicle shall not
overtake and pass a bicycle unless it can be done with reasonable safety,
maintaining a space of not less than five feet between the bicycle and motor
vehicle. (Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.03 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a sidecar
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.04 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large; restraint
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act, being KRS 258.095 through 258.500, or
subject to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) above arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court
may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person, in
addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (C)(1)(b) above, the court may order the sale,
conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of the
offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
**** DOGS ****
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, regardless of age.
   OWNER. All persons having a right of property in the dog, or who keeps or
harbors a dog, or who has it in his or her care, or who acts as its custodian,
or who permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name and
address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration the
owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as established
by City Commission for each dog. The license tag shall be valid for one year
from the date of issue. A new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner
and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the owner
or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; RESTRAINT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either
licensed or unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to
be at large and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden,
schoolyard, playground, or on any other public or private property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner in charge of a dog to permit such
dog to be on the streets of the city unless said dog is on leash or otherwise
under absolute control of the owner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog found in the city running at large and not on a leash or otherwise
under absolute control of the owner of his or her agent shall be taken
physically by the police to the dog pound of the City of
Animals Louisville.
(Prior Code, § 90.21)
§ 90.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
91.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
91.04   Abatement procedure
   
91.05   Nuisance created by others
   
91.06   Suspension of license
Weeds, Trash, and Debris
   
91.20   Lots to be kept free from weeds, trash, and debris
   
91.21   Depositing of debris prohibited
Noise Control
   
91.35   Loud or unnecessary noise prohibited
   
91.36   Specific prohibitions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(b))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(h))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(j))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 91.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the
commonwealth as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded
against as is provided in this chapter or in accordance with any other
provision of law.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any premises within
a local government to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of
filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or inoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines, or
other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of a:
         (a)   Licensed automotive recycling dealer as described in KRS 190.010
(8);
         (b)   Used motor vehicle dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(6); or
         (c)   Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(11).
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private premises by automobile collectors, whether as a hobby
or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   An owner shall not permit any structure upon his or her premises to
become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit
conditions to exist on the structure or premises which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the local
government.
   (D)   A local government may provide by ordinance for the abatement and
decontamination of a property where a methamphetamine contamination notice has
been posted as provided in KRS 224.1-410. Pursuant to divisions (E) and (F)
below, notice and an opportunity to request a hearing shall be afforded to an
owner prior to decontamination of the property. A lien for all fees, charges,
and costs incurred by the local government in the enforcement of an ordinance
related to decontaminating a property where a methamphetamine contamination
notice has been posted pursuant to KRS 224.1-410 shall be placed on the
property pursuant to division (G) below. Notwithstanding division (J) below and
KRS 65.8840(13), the costs of abatement and decontamination of a property where
a methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted are recoverable
throughout the county.
   (E)   The city may establish by ordinance reasonable standards and
procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes. Any
ordinance establishing these procedures may be enforced by any means authorized
by law. Proper notice shall be given to owners before any action is taken
pursuant to this section, and, prior to the decontamination of a property where
a methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted pursuant to KRS 224.1-
410 or the demolition of any unfit or unsafe structure, the opportunity to
request a hearing shall be afforded the owner.
   (F)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the local government shall send, within 14 days
of a final determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the owner, a
copy of the determination to any lien holder of record of the subject premises
by first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of record may,
within 45 days from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited or
elect to pay all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and
fees incurred by the local government in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs, as permitted by division (G) below.
   (G)   The city shall have a lien against the property for all civil fines
assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs.
The affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take
precedence over all other liens, except state, county, school board, and city
taxes, except as provided in division (H) below. The city shall possess the
lien for ten years following the date of the final, nonappealable order of a
code enforcement board or final judgment of the court. The lien may be enforced
by judicial proceeding.
   (H)   The lien provided in division (G) above shall not take precedence or
priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The city failed to provide the lien holder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (F) above; or
      (2)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (F) above, and the lien holder corrected the violations or paid all
civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the
local government in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including
abatement costs.
   (I)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (E) above or any
other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a premises upon which a lien has
been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the
amount of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for the violation and
all charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt
owed. The failure of the city to comply with division (F) above, and the
failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as provided in
division (H) above, shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the city has
against the owner of the premises.
   (J)   The provisions of divisions (E), (G), and (I) above shall not apply to
an owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land located
in an unincorporated area if the owner, occupant, or person is not the
generator of the rubbish or is not dumping or knowingly allowing the dumping of
the rubbish and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping of rubbish
by other persons onto the premises.
   (K)   The right to request a hearing pursuant to this section shall be
limited to a period of 30 days after notice has been placed on the property and
has been sent by certified mail return receipt requested.
(KRS 65.8840(3) through (12) and (14)) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 91.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Commission may suspend the license of the person
or persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Commission may remove the
suspension.
**** WEEDS, TRASH, AND DEBRIS ****
§ 91.20 LOTS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM WEEDS, TRASH, AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   All owners of lots in the corporate limits of the city shall be
required to keep mowed or cut all obnoxious weeds, high grass, and all other
types of undesirable vegetation which could tend to cause unhealthful,
unsightly, or menacing conditions.
   (B)   As an alternative remedy, after an owner has been notified by the city
police of conditions resulting in a nuisance, and who refuses to mow or cut
weeds, high grass, or other types of vegetation, the city may have the weeds,
grass, or other vegetation cut or mowed, and the cost thereof shall be added to
the annual tax bill and collected as in the case of other taxes.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 DEPOSITING OF DEBRIS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit upon any vacant or unoccupied property in
the city any trash, grass cuttings, trees, tree limbs, dirt, or any garbage or
debris of any nature.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** NOISE CONTROL ****
§ 91.35 LOUD OR UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise which
either annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others unless the making and continuing of the same be necessary for the
protection or preservation of property or the health, safety, life or limb of
said person.
(Prior Code, § 92.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Sound any horn or signal device on any vehicle not in motion,
except as a danger warning if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of
control;
      (2)   Sound any horn or signal device on any vehicle in motion except as
a danger warning after or as an attempt is made to decelerate the vehicle by
the application of brakes;
      (3)   Sound any horn or signal device on any vehicle for an unnecessary
and unreasonable period of time or in such manner as to create an unreasonably
loud or harsh sound;
      (4)   Use or operate any vehicle which produces, or use or operate any
vehicle so out of repair or so loaded with any material as to cause any loud
and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other loud and excessive noise;
      (5)   Discharge into the open air the exhaust of any vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (6)   Create any loud and excessive noises in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle; or
      (7)   Use any mechanical loud speaker or amplifiers on any moving or
standing vehicle for advertising or other purposes.
   (B)   As used in this section, the word VEHICLE shall include any device in,
upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon
any street in the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   After the owner has had notice of §
91.20 and the conditions of an existing nuisance insofar as obnoxious
vegetation is concerned and still refuses to comply, shall be guilty of a
violation punishable by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
91.21,
91.35, or
91.36 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
CHAPTER 92: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
92.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
92.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
92.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
92.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
92.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
92.20   Blasting permit
   
92.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, FIREWORKS means any
composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible
effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the
definition of “consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display
fireworks” as defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the United
States Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
FIREWORKS does not include the following.
      (1)   Exception number one. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number two. Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception number three. Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents
of these devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division
1.4G Class C explosives by the United States Department of Transportation and
include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the United States Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include the following.
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers, and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and
1507, and are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department
of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of these items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 92.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division (A) shall
be transferable. For the purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining
within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an
employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display
operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18
years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the United States Department of the Interior or any equivalent
or local agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
92.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
92.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
92.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
92.01(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
92.01(B)(1), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands,
or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
92.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
92.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
92.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
92.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 92.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 through 227.750 shall restrict a local
government from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks
within its jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
**** FIRE PREVENTION ****
§ 92.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting the permit, may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.02 or
92.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Littering
   
93.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
93.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
93.03   Hauling loose material
   
93.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
93.05   Litter on private property
Temporary Storage Units and Dumpsters
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   Regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
**** LITTERING ****
§ 93.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
93.99
**** TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS AND DUMPSTERS ****
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTERS. A collection unit that is intended for the collection of
discarded materials such as construction debris, large quantities of yard
waste, and discarded personal property, excepting traditional trash collection
devices provided by waste management companies under contract with the city.
However, a DUMPSTER that is provided by a commercial service provider for the
recurring collection of trash and waste that is not emptied by a commercial
service provider shall be considered a “temporary storage unit” pursuant to the
definition set out below.
   EXEMPTIONS.
      (1)   Trash cans capable of holding not more than 100 gallons;
      (2)   Portable storage containers located in an enclosed area, such as a
garage;
      (3)   The City Commission shall be allowed to suspend the enforcement of
this subchapter in whole, or in part, in the event of special circumstances and
emergencies including, but not limited to, flood, fire, tornado, ice storm, and
the like; and
      (4)   Commercial, business, or multi-family zoned property that are
provided recurring waste disposal services through a commercial services
provider is exempted from this subchapter provided that the provider is in
compliance with federal, state, and local law and regulation, and the dumpster
is emptied at least monthly. In the event that the recurring waste is not
emptied once per month, it will be considered a “temporary storage unit”
pursuant to the definition contained below and require Commission approval.
   TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS. An accessory structure that is intended for
temporary storage of personal property, construction/building materials, and/or
other personal property. This definition includes, but is not limited to,
portable on demand storage units (PODS), modular units (trailers), and/or any
other vehicle, trailer, or device used for the purposes above. Lastly,
bagsters, or their equivalent, are subject to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-27-2014)
§ 93.21 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Temporary storage units and dumpsters may be placed on the owner’s
property, in an appropriate location for 14 calendar days without approval from
the City Commission.
   (B)   Temporary storage units and dumpsters may be placed on an owner’s
property for longer than 14 calendar days only with the written approval of the
City Commission or its designated agent and a fee of $20 paid to the City
Clerk. Written approvals shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
   (C)   No temporary storage unit or dumpster shall be allowed to remain in
excess of 30 calendar days or allowed to hold, store, or dispose of any
hazardous material.
   (D)   No more than one storage unit or dumpster shall be placed on a
residential lot at one time.
(Ord. passed 1-27-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
93.20 or
93.21 or any provision thereof shall be guilty of a violation and fined $150 in
addition to all cost(s) associated with the prosecution of this matter. All
continuing violations shall be considered separate and distinct offenses and
separate penalties may be imposed for each day that the violation continues.
      (2)   Any person who violates §§
93.20 or
93.21 or any provision thereof shall be subject to a civil penalty in the
amount of $150 for each violation. All continuing violations shall be
considered separate and distinct offenses and separate penalties may be imposed
for each day that the violation continues.
      (3)   The civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a civil action in
the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the violation within 20 days
of the date of notice of the violation. The civil penalty may be used as an
alternative or in conjunction with the criminal penalty authorized in division
(C)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 1-27-2014)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Application
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Necessary execution of terms or performance by officials
Use and Conditions of Park and Recreational Areas
   
94.15   Structures, plants, trees, earth, and rubbish
   
94.16   Operation of vehicles
   
94.17   Firearms; weapons; tools
   
94.18   Explosives and fireworks
   
94.19   Advertising; assemblages; entertainment
   
94.20   Merchandise; sales prohibited
   
94.21   Ignitable and combustible materials
   
94.22   Alcoholic beverages; controlled dangerous substances; alms; gambling
   
94.23   Disorderly or prohibited conduct
   
94.24   Picnic areas
   
94.25   Park hours
   
94.26   Regulated activities
Permit Requirement
   
94.40   Permit for special events required
   
94.41   Application
   
94.42   Standards of issuance
 
   
94.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for the use
of and conduct in the parks and recreation areas of the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 94.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply in all parks and recreation areas under the
jurisdiction of the city, unless expressly exempted.
   (B)   For the issuance of permits, temporary designations, authorizations,
granting of approval, and other actions the approving governing agency shall be
the City Commission or its designee.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Includes cats, dogs, horses, any fowl or birds, and any living
creatures within the jurisdiction of the park or recreation area.
   APPROVING GOVERNING AGENCY. The Commission of the city or its designee.
   CROSSING. Any crossing whether marked by a pavement or otherwise; the
extension to any sidewalk space across any intersecting drive, street, or
highway.
   CURB. Any boundary of any street, road, avenue, boulevard, or drive, whether
or not marked by a curb.
   PARK ATTENDANT. Any person employed by the Commission as a parks attendant
to perform duties or tasks within the park and recreation areas.
   PATH. Any footpath, walk, or any path maintained for pedestrians.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person afoot.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the
approving governing agency permitting a special event or activity on park
facilities.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, firm, or copartnership.
   SOLICITING. Persons selling goods or services by sample or taking orders for
future delivery with or without accepting advance payment for the goods.
Persons seeking any form of contributions.
   STOPPING OR STANDING. When prohibited, means any cessation of movement of a
vehicle occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
pedestrians or other traffic including horses and bicycles.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles, either singly
or together.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance (except baby carriages) including motor vehicles,
trailers of all types, campers, tricycles, bicycles, motorized or not, sleds,
sleighs, pushcarts, or vehicles propelled by other than muscular power. Also
any horse or horse-drawn conveyance.
   VENDING. Selling or trading any item or service.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 94.04 NECESSARY EXECUTION OF TERMS OR PERFORMANCE BY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed
by any officer or employee of the Commission or city in line of duty or work as
such, or by any person, by his or her agent or employees, in the proper and
necessary execution of the terms of any agreement with the City Commission or
city.
   (B)   Any requirement or prohibitions of any act shall respectively extend
to and include the causing and procuring, directly or indirectly, of such act.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
**** USE AND CONDITIONS OF PARK AND RECREATIONAL AREAS ****
§ 94.15 STRUCTURES, PLANTS, TREES, EARTH, AND RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or remove
any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, pavings or
paving materials, water lines, or other public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities, or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, whether real or personal;
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition. No person over the age of six years shall use the restrooms
and washrooms designated for the opposite sex;
   (C)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs or plants or
other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting,
or other means or agency;
   (D)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service utility into, upon,
or across such lands, except on special written permit issued hereunder;
   (E)   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant, or remove any plant, or injure
the bark, or pick flowers or seed of any tree or plant, dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area;
   (F)   Climb any tree or walk; climb, stand, or sit upon monuments, vases,
planters, fountains, railings, fences, or upon any other property not
designated or customarily used for such purpose;
   (G)   Attach any rope or cable or other contrivance to any tree, fence,
railing, bridge, bench, or other structure;
   (H)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountains, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing
into such water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid, or solid, which will
or may result in the pollution of said waters;
   (I)   Take into, carry through, or put into any park, any rubbish, refuse,
garbage, or other material. Such refuse and rubbish shall be deposited in
receptacles so provided. Where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish
or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its
presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
   (J)   Bring any glass container into any park or recreation area;
   (K)   Tie or hitch an animal to any tree or plant;
   (L)   Hunt, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot, or
throw missies at any animal, wildlife, reptile, or bird; nor shall he or she
remove or have in his or her possession the young of any wild animal, or the
eggs or nest, or young of any reptile or bird. Exception to the foregoing is
made in that snakes known to be deadly poisonous may be killed on sight;
   (M)   Walk a dog without a leash, or otherwise not under the control of the
owner;
   (N)   Ride a horse; and/or
   (O)   Walk a domestic animal without a leash, said leash to be no longer
than six feet. Further, the owner or person having custody of said domestic
animal shall be responsible for removal of any animal solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or parking
areas, or such areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as temporary
areas;
   (B)   Park a vehicle anywhere except on a designated parking area;
   (C)   Leave a vehicle standing or parked in established parking areas or
elsewhere in the park and recreation areas during hours when the park and
recreation area is used. During a snow storm and for three days thereafter
established, parking areas in parks and recreation areas may be utilized for
parking, but not by trailers of any kind;
   (D)   Leave a bicycle in a place other than a bicycle rack when such is
provided and there is space available;
   (E)   Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard to the safety of others;
   (F)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against trees, or
in any place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured by
them;
   (G)   Wash any vehicle;
   (H)   Drive or operate within the parks any bus or vehicle adapted for more
than 12 passengers; any hearse, truck or tractor, or vehicle used for
advertising provided that taxis, buses, and trucks may be used to carry
visitors to the parks and recreation areas;
   (I)   Use the parks, park drives, parking places, or parkways for the
purpose of demonstrating any vehicles, or for the purpose of instructing
another to drive or operate any vehicle, nor shall any person use any park
area, including parking places, for the repairing or cleaning of any vehicle,
except in an emergency; and/or
   (J)   Cause or permit a vehicle in tow of another vehicle to enter the parks
or proceed therein, except that in case of a breakdown a disabled vehicle may
be towed to the nearest exit; or operate or drive a vehicle containing any
person or object projecting or hanging outside of or beyond the side or the
rear thereof.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 FIREARMS; WEAPONS; TOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or have in his or her
possession in any park or recreation area:
   (A)   Any pistol or revolver or objects upon which loaded or blank
cartridges may be used. Official starters, at authorized track and field
events, are excepted from this restriction;
   (B)   Any burglar tools; and/or
   (C)   Any rifle, shotgun, BB gun, air gun, spring gun, slingshot, bow, or
other weapon in which the propelling force is gunpowder, a spring, or air.
(Prior Code, § 95.22) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or set
off any fireworks. Permits may be given for conducting properly supervised
fireworks in designated park areas.
(Prior Code, § 95.23) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 ADVERTISING; ASSEMBLAGES; ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No person shall post, paint, affix, distribute, deliver, place, cast,
or leave about, any bill, billboard, placard, ticket, handbill, circular, or
advertisement.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following without a permit, provided
that no permit shall be required for any action or event sponsored by the city
or the City Commission:
      (1)   Display any advertising signs or other advertising matter, provided
that a sign attached to a vehicle to identify the vehicle, or a sign lawfully
on a taxi or bus, is not prohibited;
      (2)   Operate for advertising purposes any musical instrument,
soundtrack, or drum;
      (3)   Hold public assemblages;
      (4)   Conduct exhibitions; and/or
      (5)   Hold a parade.
(Prior Code, § 95.24) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 MERCHANDISE; SALES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall expose or offer for sale any article in any park or
recreation area, without a license as a concessionaire.
(Prior Code, § 95.25) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 IGNITABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain, or use a fire except in places
provided for such purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and
direction of a competent person from the time it is kindled until it is
extinguished. No person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar,
cigarette, tobacco, paper, or other material within or against any building,
vehicle, or under any tree or in underbrush.
(Prior Code, § 95.26) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES; ALMS; GAMBLING.
   While in a public park or recreation area, all persons shall conduct
themselves in a proper and orderly manner, and in particular, no person shall:
   (A)   Bring alcoholic beverages, or controlled dangerous substances, drink
or use the same at any time nor shall any person be under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or a controlled dangerous substance in a park or recreation
area;
   (B)   Solicit alms or contributions for any purpose, whether public or
private;
   (C)   Play any game of chance or have possession of any instrument or device
for gambling; and/or
   (D)   Play, engage, or take part in any game or competitive sport for money,
or other valuable thing, without a written permit.
(Prior Code, § 95.27) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 DISORDERLY OR PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Camp or stay overnight anywhere except in areas designated for camping
or staying overnight in vehicles or trailers;
   (B)   Take part in the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise
propelled objects except in those areas designated for such forms of
recreation;
   (C)   Play football, baseball, basketball, soccer, or lacrosse, except in
areas designated for which games;
   (D)   Roller skate or use skateboards except in those areas specifically
designed for such pastimes;
   (E)   Enter an area posted as closed to the public;
   (F)   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public
peace;
   (G)   Fail to produce and exhibit any permit he or she claims to have, upon
request of any authorized person who shall desire to inspect the same for the
purpose of enforcing compliance with any ordinance or rule;
   (H)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a permit; and/
or
   (I)   Erect or occupy any tent, stand, or other structure in any park or
playground, or sell or give away from any such tent, stand, or other structure
any food, drink, or other thing, without a permit.
(Prior Code, § 95.28) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 PICNIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to hold a picnic in
any park, except in areas set aside or specifically designated as picnic areas.
A permit must be secured for any picnic with more than 20 participants.
(Prior Code, § 95.29) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   The Hardesty Park operating hours shall be from sunrise to sunset
throughout the year. An exception shall exist for any group who has the written
permission of the City Commission to camp in a designated area of the park.
   (B)   A sign shall be posted at the entrance(s) to Hardesty Park indicating
the operating hours.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 3-24-2014) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities are permitted only at times and in areas so
designated for that purpose and are prohibited elsewhere within the park:
   (A)   Ice skating, sledding, skiing;
   (B)   Model airplane flying;
   (C)   Baseball;
   (D)   Archery;
   (E)   Horseshoe pitching;
   (F)   Tennis;
   (G)   Picnicking;
   (H)   Camping;
   (I)   Football and track;
   (J)   Basketball;
   (K)   Soccer;
   (L)   Bicycle riding;
   (M)   Throwing or propelling any objects; and/or
   (N)   Roller skating.
(Prior Code, § 95.31) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
**** PERMIT REQUIREMENT ****
§ 94.40 PERMIT FOR SPECIAL EVENTS REQUIRED.
   Permits for special events in parks and recreation areas shall be obtained
by application to the City Commission or its designee in accordance with the
procedure set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.40) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.41 APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application
stating:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation, or
association sponsoring the activity, if any;
   (C)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
   (D)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired;
   (E)   Any other information reasonably necessary to a determination as to
whether a permit should be issued hereunder; and
   (F)   Variances required from park rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 95.41) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 94.42 STANDARDS OF ISSUANCE.
   Standards for issuance of a use permit shall include the following findings:
   (A)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public’s enjoyment of the park;
   (B)   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with or
detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety, and recreation;
   (C)   The proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated will not
include violence, crime, or disorderly conduct;
   (D)   The proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or burdensome
expense or police operation by the duty; and
   (E)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use on the
date and hour requested in the application.
(Prior Code, § 95.42) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
94.15 through
94.24 or §
94.40 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Violation of §
94.25 shall constitute a violation and carry a fine of $100 to $500 for each
violation. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense and subject to
multiple fines.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 700.1, passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 1-2014, passed 3-24-
2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
116.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon forms to be furnished
by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the city and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk
and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the license is not
issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted,
in a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Commission at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Commission may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case may be,
shall within three business days have the right to appeal to the City
Commission from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall
be filed in writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing, which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk
shall notify the City Commission of the time and place of the hearing not less
than 24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of the City Commission members
shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The appellant may appear and be
heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of
the City Commission present at the meeting declare in favor of the applicant,
the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise
the order appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   “No knock” registry established
   
111.04   Application requirements
   
111.05   Standards of conduct
   
111.06   License duration and revocation
   
111.07   Exemptions (noncommercial speech)
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any person who goes from house to house for the primary purpose
of advocating for a religious, political, or charitable cause, or distributing
handbills or literature not for commercial gain.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR or PEDDLER. Any person, firm, corporation, or entity
who goes from house to house, street to street, or place to place, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, or merchandise or offering to sell or take orders
for such goods, wares, merchandise, or services.
   DUSK. The specific time occurring 30 minutes prior to the official sunset
time for that day as published by the United States Naval Observatory.
   NO KNOCK REGISTRY. A list maintained by the City Clerk containing the
addresses of city residents who have voluntarily indicated their desire not to
receive uninvited solicitation.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
commercial solicitor or peddler within the corporate limits of the city without
first obtaining a license from the City Clerk in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 “NO KNOCK” REGISTRY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall establish and maintain a “no knock registry.”
   (B)   Any resident of the city may request to have their address added to
the registry at no charge. Addresses shall remain on the registry until the
resident requests removal or the city determines the residence has been
vacated.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall provide a current copy of the no knock registry
to every commercial solicitor at the time a license is issued.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any commercial solicitor
to knock, ring the doorbell, or otherwise attempt to make contact at any
residence listed on the no knock registry.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file a sworn application
with the City Clerk containing the following:
   (A)   Identification. A copy of a valid government-issued photo
identification (driver’s license, passport, or state ID) for every individual
who will be soliciting;
   (B)   Background check. A current criminal background check (issued within
the last 60 days) from the State Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) or
State Police for every individual applicant;
   (C)   Business information. The name, permanent address, and telephone
number of the business entity the applicant represents;
   (D)   Surety bond. The applicant shall file with the City Clerk a surety
bond in the penal sum of $5,000, executed by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state. The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
observance of this chapter and shall indemnify any citizen of the city against
loss or damage resulting from the applicant’s fraudulent or illegal conduct;
and
   (E)   Fee. A non-refundable application fee of $50 per individual applicant
to cover the administrative cost of processing the license.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026)
§ 111.05 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   Every commercial solicitor licensed under this chapter shall comply with the
following standards.
   (A)   Possession of documents. At all times while soliciting, the individual
must carry:
      (1)   The city-issued license;
      (2)   A valid government-issued photo ID; and
      (3)   A current copy of the city’s no knock registry. These documents
must be presented immediately upon request by any police officer or resident.
   (B)   Time restrictions. Commercial solicitation is permitted only between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and dusk. Solicitation on Sundays and federal holidays
is prohibited.
   (C)   Trespassing. It shall be unlawful to enter upon any private premises
when the same is posted with a sign stating “No Soliciting,” “No Peddlers,” “No
Trespassing,” or words to that effect, regardless of whether the address is on
the city registry.
   (D)   False statements. No solicitor shall make any false or misleading
statements regarding the product or service being sold, nor shall they claim to
have the endorsement of the city.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE DURATION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses shall be valid for a period of 30 days from the date of
issuance.
   (B)   The city may revoke any license immediately if the holder is found to
be in violation of any provision of this chapter, including, but not limited
to: knocking on a registry home, soliciting after dusk or failing to present
ID.
   (C)   Upon revocation, the surety bond may be forfeited to satisfy any
judgmentnts or claims against the solicitor.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026)
§ 111.07 EXEMPTIONS (NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH).
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regarding §§
111.02,
111.04, and
111.03 shall not apply to:
      (1)   Candidates for public office or political canvassers;
      (2)   Religious organizations or their representatives;
      (3)   Bona fide charitable organizations soliciting donations for
noncommercial purposes; and
      (4)   Students soliciting for school-sponsored activities.
   (B)   Note: While exempt from the registry and permit requirements, these
groups remain subject to all applicable criminal trespass laws and must respect
private property posted with “No Trespassing” or “No Soliciting” signage.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   Each residence solicited in violation of this chapter shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-2026, passed 3-23-2026)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Commission, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public of all persons who have left any property
that has been pawned or sold, and the names as verified by:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;   
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted.
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division (A)(4), “full description” includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)    Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C) Prior to the release of property to a representative of law enforcement,
the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker a case
report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses, and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(D) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city for the calendar year 1992, and thereafter on a calendar year
basis.
(Ord. 113.06-1991, passed 9-23-1991)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 113.06-1991, passed 9-23-1991)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insurance
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Worker’s Compensation Act, being
KRS Chapter 342, and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employee under KRS 18A.225(2).
(Ord. 113.06-1991, passed 9-23-1991)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 113.06-1991, passed 9-23-1991)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 113.06-1991, passed 9-23-1991)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   License required; fees
   
114.02   Payment of fees
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Every person, firm, organization, or corporation holding a license for
the dispensing of alcoholic beverages from the state and the county must obtain
a license from the city. This license is in addition to any occupational
license fees provided in Chapter 110 of this code and shall cover the following
categories, in the following amounts:
 
Beer retailer. For selling beer at retail for consumption on or off the
premises (Subject to provisions of KRS 243.040(3))                      $150
Annual renewal                                                          $200
Original issue, per annum
Distilled spirits by the drink. For consumption on the premises         $1,600
Distilled spirits by the package. For consumption off the premises. To  $1,200
be sold by the package only
Private club liquor drink. For consumption on the premises only         $300
Special temporary liquor by the drink. For consumption on the premises  $200
only
Special temporary retail beer license. For consumption on the premises, $25
per month or part of month
 
   (B)   The person, firm, organization, or corporation desire to sell,
distribute, or dispense alcoholic beverages must obtain a license in the form
prescribed from the city before commencing the sale, distribution, or
dispensing of alcoholic beverage control.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 3, passed 2-25-1980; Ord. 410.1, passed 4-27-1987)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The payment of the fees mentioned in §
114.01 shall be made when the licensee receives notice of the amount claimed
from the county. On receiving this notice, the licensee shall be required to
pay the city the amount mentioned in §
114.01. A receipt will be given and the amount paid shall, as provided under
state statutes, be deducted from any amount paid due to the county.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 3, passed 2-25-1980; Ord. 410.1, passed 4-27-1987)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Term
   
115.03   Significance of franchise
   
115.04   Partial listing of rights reserved to the city
   
115.05   Application
   
115.06   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
115.07   Indemnity
   
115.08   Bond; insurance
   
115.09   Franchise consideration
   
115.10   Franchise territory
   
115.11   Time schedule after franchise granted
   
115.12   Installation and extension of service
   
115.13   Service to customers
   
115.14   System design
   
115.15   Privacy
   
115.16   Interconnection authorized
   
115.17   Emergencies
   
115.18   Rates
   
115.19   Police powers
   
115.20   Transfer and assignments
   
115.21   Abandonment by franchisee
   
115.22   Conditions of street occupancy
   
115.23   Arrangements by franchisee with others
   
115.24   Review, renewal, termination, and cancellation
   
115.25   Revocation of franchise
   
115.26   Foreclosure; receivership
   
115.27   Books and records of the franchisee
   
115.28   New developments
   
115.29   Time of essence
   
115.30   Franchisee not to contest validity of franchise or chapter
   
115.31   Prohibited activities
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL GROSS RECEIPTS. Any and all compensation, revenue, and other
consideration derived directly or indirectly, in any form whatsoever, by a
franchisee, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parents from or in connection with,
the operation of a cable communications system in the city.
   APPLICANT. The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, joint venture, or organization of any kind which applies for a
franchise to be granted under this chapter.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. Any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly or indirectly, and amplifies or otherwise modifies, signals
which transmit nonbroadcast services, or programming broadcast or furnished by
one or more television or radio stations or similar facility, and distributes
such signals by wire or cable to subscribing members of the public who pay for
such service. Such definition shall not include any similar facility that
serves only the residents of one or more apartment or condominium dwelling
under common ownership, control, or management, or otherwise, and commercial
establishments located on the premises of such an apartment, house, or
condominium dwelling.
   CATV. A community antenna cable communications system, composed of, without
limitation, antenna, cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, laser beams, or
any other conductors, converters, equipment, or facilities, designed,
constructed, or wired for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, and
distributing coaxial cable audio or visual radio, television, electronics, or
electrical signals to and from persons, subscribers, and locations in the city
hereinafter defined.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. Approval required by the FCC in order for a
franchisee to begin operation within the city.
   CONVERTER. An interface device which may be furnished to subscribers in
order that nonstandard television channels carried on the cable communications
system may be received on a conventional home television receiver, or to
prevent interference from strong broadcast signals.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer, under no compulsion to
buy, would pay to a willing seller under no compulsion to sell.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission as that agency is presently
constituted by the Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq.,
as amended, or any successor agency.
   FRANCHISE. The nonexclusive rights granted hereunder to construct and
operate a cable communications system along the streets, alleys, and public
ways in the city.
   FRANCHISEE. The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, joint venture, or organization of any kind, and the
lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of same, granted a franchise by the
City Commission under this chapter.
   SERVICE. All communications, maintenance, repair, and installation services
provided by the franchisee, including the delivery of broadcast signals and
programming covered by the regular monthly charge paid by all subscribers,
including such standard type of service that is normally furnished by CATV
franchisees for a regular monthly charge and such additional communications
services as are furnished as a part of the cable communications system in the
way of two-way, return-path services.
   STREET. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, or other public rights-of-way, including
public utility easements or rights-of-way and any temporary or permanent
fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the city
which shall entitle the city and the franchisee to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing, operating, repairing, and maintaining the franchisee’s
cable communications system. STREET shall also mean any easement now or
hereafter held by the city for the purpose of public travel and shall include
other easements or rights-of-way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the
city, which shall within their proper use and meaning entitle the city and the
franchisee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or transmitting
cable communications transmission over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts,
conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, compliances, attachments, and other
property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable communications
system.
   SUBSCRIBEE. Any person who contracts the purchase, orally or in writing, of
any service as may be provided by a franchisee’s cable communications system.
   SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION. The point at which sufficient distribution
facilities have been installed by the franchisee so as to provide service to at
least 90% of the dwelling units in the franchise territory as described in §
115.10.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.02 TERM.
   The City Commission hereby creates the right, privilege, and franchise to
construct, operate, and maintain a community antenna television system in the
streets of the city, subject to the conditions and restrictions as hereinafter
provided; and said right, privilege, and franchise shall be offered to
potential applicants and granted by the City Commission to the applicant
presenting the best legal, character, financial, technical, and other
qualifications, and whose construction plans and arrangements can be shown to
be both feasible and adequate to meet the minimum requirements herein
established. The franchise shall run for a period of 15 years commencing on the
date the franchise is awarded at the end of which time it may be renewed
subject to the approval of the City Commission and the provisions of the
constitution and the state statutes governing term and sale of franchises then
in force and effect. Any such franchise hereunder shall designate and be
conditioned upon the acceptance by a franchisee of all the terms of this
chapter and any amendments properly made thereto.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.03 SIGNIFICANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereafter by the city shall not be exclusive,
and the city reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any other
persons or entities at any time.
   (B)   No privilege or exemption shall be inferred from the granting of any
franchise unless it is specifically proscribed.
   (C)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall give to the franchisee the right
and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify, and maintain in, upon,
along, above, over, and under the streets, alleys, and public places of the
incorporated areas of the city such towers, antennas, cables, electronic
equipment, and other network appurtenances necessary for the operation of a
cable communications system in the city; provided, however, that the exercise
of such right and privilege shall not interfere with the use of such streets,
alleys, and public places by the city and such others as are permitted by the
city to use same, and the City Commission may demand the removal of the
foregoing as have been constructed by or under contract with a franchisee at
such time as the City Commission determines that same are interfering with the
use of said streets, alleys, or public places.
   (D)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be a privilege to be held for
the benefit of the public.
   (E)   Prior approval of the City Commission shall be required and obtained
where ownership or control of more than 25% of the right of control of any
franchisee is acquired, disposed of, or transferred by a person or group of
person acting in concert. Approval of the City Commission to such a transfer of
interest shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the mortgage or
the pledge of the network or any part thereof or a leasing by a franchisee from
another person of said network or part thereof for financing purposes or
otherwise. However, any such mortgage, pledge, or lease shall be subject to the
rights of the City Commission under this chapter, a franchise granted
hereunder, and all other applicable laws.
   (G)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall not relieve the franchisee of
its obligation to obtain necessary pole or conduit use agreements as are
necessary.
   (H)   The award of any franchise hereunder shall not impart to the
franchisee any right of ownership of streets or city-owned property.
   (I)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be binding upon the franchisee,
it successors, lessees, or assignees.
   (J)   A franchisee, at its expense, shall comply with all applicable laws,
orders, ordinances, and regulations of federal, state, city, county, or
municipal authorities, including those established to protect historic
districts or designated landmark sites.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.04 PARTIAL LISTING OF RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   (A)   The city reserve such rights and powers which, under applicable
federal or state law or regulations, the city must reserve and maintain. The
franchisee agrees to comply with any action or requirements of the city in the
exercise of such rights and powers which either have been or shall, subsequent
to the grant of said franchise, be enacted or established.
   (B)   The city may designate and transfer its obligations and duties under
the franchise to any elected official, officer, employee, department, agent,
board, or commission of the city, and a franchisee shall recognize the
authority of such transferee.
   (C)   The city may inspect all construction or installation work performed
pursuant to the franchise granted under this chapter.
   (D)   Neither the granting of any franchise hereafter nor any provisions
hereof shall constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental
right or power of the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.05 APPLICATION.
   Applications for an original franchise grant hereunder shall be filed with
the City Clerk and shall contain the following written information and
provisions.
   (A)   Applications shall be submitted with the bid bond as required by the
requirements of §
115.08, and shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee of $250 payable
to the city.
   (B)   The application shall include:
      (1)   A full disclosure of the ownership of the facilities to be used in
rendering the service;
      (2)   A detailed schedule of the rates to be charged for these services
offered, the facilities to be employed, the service area or areas, the
commencement and completion dates of construction of the CATV system, and the
proposed dates the service will be available to the areas named; and
      (3)   A detailed schedule of rates to be charged for the services offered
to residential, apartment, commercial, and other users of service.
   (C)   All applications shall be open to public inspection and shall be kept
on file a reasonable length of time. Any intentional misrepresentation in an
application shall be grounds for its rejection or for termination of the
franchise.
   (D)   All applications shall be considered firm and final and shall be
signed and verified by the applicants, whose relationship to the applicant
shall be set forth, and shall bind the applicant to the provisions thereof and
to the applicant’s responses thereto.
   (E)   All applications shall include financial ownership information, along
with recent financial statements of the franchisee.
   (F)   The City Commission reserves the right to require such supplementary,
additional, or other information that it deems reasonably necessary for its
determination.
(Prior Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.06 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges,
and authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after
the effective date of an ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder, provided
that on or before said date the franchisee shall:
      (1)   File with the city an unconditional acceptance of the franchise
grant and enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by
the City Commission consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter
and such other terms and provisions as were negotiated by the franchisee and
the City Commission consistent with the application of the franchisee;
      (2)   File certificates of insurance as set forth in §
115.08;
      (3)   File such bond or bonds as required in §
115.08 herein;
      (4)   Reimburse the city for the cost of publication of this chapter,
awarding the franchise, together with incidental expenses and reasonable
attorney’s fees; and
      (5)   Advise the City Commission in writing of the franchisee’s location
and its address for mail and official notifications from the City Commission.
   (B)   In the event the franchisee fails to comply in full with division (A)
above, then it shall be conclusively considered that the franchisee has
abandoned its application and rights to such grant and award of the franchise,
and any such rights that the franchisee may have acquired under the ordinance
shall immediately terminate, and the franchisee shall have no right, privilege,
or authority whatsoever under this chapter.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the city for
or on account of any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any
provisions or requirements of this chapter or the ordinance awarding the
franchise or any amendments thereto or rules or regulations thereunder.
   (D)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded hereunder,
acknowledges that it has relied upon its own investigation and understanding of
the power and authority of the City Commission to grant such a franchise.
   (E)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded hereunder,
acknowledges that it has thoroughly examined and is familiar with the terms and
conditions of this chapter, the ordinance awarding the franchise, and such
other contracts and documents entered into by the franchisee relative to the
franchise.
   (F)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded hereunder,
acknowledges and agrees that the matters contained in the franchisee’s
application for franchise or supplements thereto, shall be incorporated into
the ordinance awarding the franchise as though set out verbatim and shall
thereafter be considered an integral part of such ordinance in all
communications, correspondence, filings, or applications with all appropriate
regulatory agencies; including the FCC.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.07 INDEMNITY.
   The franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend,
and save harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, and employees
against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability, and judgments for damage
or penalty arising out of the operation of the CATV franchise, including all
out-of-pocket expenses such as attorney fees and all other costs of litigation,
including the reasonable value of any services rendered by the City Attorney or
his or her assistants or any employee of the city, except that the franchisee
shall not be required to indemnify the city or its officers, boards,
commissions, or employees for acts or claims arising from their own negligence
or intentional acts. The damages or penalties to be indemnified shall include,
but not be limited to, damages arising out of copyright infringement and all
other damages arising out of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the
CATV system authorized herein, whether or not such acts or omissions complained
of are authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.08 BOND; INSURANCE.
   (A)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their application bonds solely for the protection of
the city with corporate surety or sureties as follows.
      (1)   A bid bond in the amount of $10,000 which shall indemnify the city
up to the full amount of the bond for any damages or losses arising out of the
failure of the franchisee to execute an agreement in the form proposed under
this chapter.
      (2)   A construction bond in the amount of $25,000 to be effective from
the date of execution of the franchise agreement and the effective date of the
ordinance awarding the franchise hereunder, and thereafter until the cable
communications system referred to therein is certified completed by the Mayor.
The bond required under this section shall indemnify the city in its own right
and as trustee for subscribers up to the full amount of said bond from any
damages or losses arising out of the failure of the franchisee to faithfully
perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the cable communication
system in accordance with this chapter and any agreement or ordinance in
connection with, including but not limited to, the cost of removal of any
construction.
      (3)   A bond with a corporate surety in the amount of $25,000, to be
effective upon the execution of the franchise agreement and the effective date
of the ordinance awarding the franchise hereunder, and conditioned that in the
event that the franchisee fails to comply with any provision of this chapter or
the agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, then
there shall be recovered jointly and severally from the principals and surety
any and all damages or costs suffered or incurred by the city or any subscriber
as a result thereof, including, but not limited to, costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees of any action or proceeding, and including the full amount of
any compensation, indemnification, or costs of removal or abandonment of any
property or other costs which may be in default, up to the full principal
amount of such bond. This condition shall be a continuing obligation during the
entire term of any agreement of ordinance or ordinances awarded the franchisee
in accordance herewith and thereafter until the franchisee shall have satisfied
in full any and all obligations to the city which arise out of or pertain to
same.
      (4)   None of the provisions of this section, nor any bond accepted by
the city pursuant thereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder,
shall be construed to excuse the faithful performance by or limit the liability
of the franchisee under this chapter or any agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith for damages either to the full amount of said
bond or otherwise.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the granting of the franchise and at all times
during the term of the franchise, the franchisee shall obtain and pay all
premiums for the following.
      (1)   A general comprehensive public liability insurance policy
indemnifying, and saving harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions,
agents, or employees from any and all claims by any person whatsoever on
account of injury to or death of a person or persons occasioned by the
operations of a franchisee under the franchise herein granted, or alleged to
have been so caused or incurred with a minimum liability of $250,000 for bodily
injury or death of any one person and $500,000 for bodily injuries or death to
two or any more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Property damage insurance indemnifying, defending, and saving
harmless the city or its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees
from and against all claims by any person whatsoever for property damage
occasioned by the operation of the franchisee under the franchise herein
granted, or alleged to have been so lost or incurred with a minimum liability
of $250,000 for property damage to any one person, and $500,000 for property
damage to two or more persons in any one occurrence.
   (C)   Such insurance as provided for in this section shall be kept in full
force and effect by the franchisee during the existence of the franchise with
insurance companies qualified to do business in the state. The polices shall
required 30 days’ written notice to both the city and the franchisee herein
prior to any cancellation thereof, and copies of said policies shall be filed
with the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.08) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.09 FRANCHISE CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A franchisee herein shall pay to the city as consideration during the
life of the franchise the sum of not less than 3% of the annual gross receipts
of such franchise. Such payment shall be in addition to any other payment owed
to the city by the franchisee, and shall not be construed as payment in lieu of
personal or real property taxes levied by state, city, or county authorities. A
franchisee shall annually file with the city 45 days after the expiration of
each fiscal year a financial statement showing in detail the gross receipts as
defined herein of the franchisee during that fiscal year. It shall be the duty
of the franchisee to pay to the city at the time of filing the financial
statement to the sums of consideration hereinabove prescribed.
   (B)   In the event the franchise should be terminated or forfeited prior to
the end of the 15-year term, the franchisee shall immediately submit to the
City Commission a financial statement prepared as before required, showing the
gross receipts of the franchisee for the time elapsed since the last period it
paid to the city the require percentage of gross annual receipts, and the
franchisee shall pay to the city not later than 30 days following the
termination of the franchise, a like percentage of such gross receipts and any
other sums legally due and owing to the city.
   (C)   In the event that any statement or payment is not made on or before
the applicable date fixed in division (A) above, interest on such payments
shall apply from such date at the current prime interest rate.
   (D)   The city shall have the right to inspect a franchisee’s records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
shall have the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid
under the franchise. No acceptance of any payment by the city shall be
construed as a release of or an accord or satisfaction of any claim the city
might have for further or additional sums payable under the terms of this
chapter or for any other performance or obligation of a franchisee hereunder.
   (E)   Payments of compensation made by a franchisee to the city pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered in the nature of a tax,
but shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or hereafter
required to be paid by any law of the United States, the state, or the city.
   (F)   Sales taxes or any other taxes which are collected from subscribers by
a franchisee, and are to be remitted to a governmental agency, shall be
deducted from the annual gross revenues.
   (G)   Should the FCC or other governmental agency cease to regulate the
amount of percentage sums payable hereunder, then in that event the City
Commission and any franchisee shall have the right to immediately renegotiate
the sum and manner of calculation of franchise payments payable hereunder, to
be conditioned upon and subject to agreement and same between the city and any
franchisee.
(Prior Code, § 115.09) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.10 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   (A)   Any ordinance awarding a franchise to operate a cable communications
system in accordance herewith shall apply to its operation throughout all of
the incorporated areas of the city as now or may in the future exist.
   (B)   The franchisee shall endeavor to offer cable communications service to
all residents of the city. To the extent that the franchisee intends not to
provide service to any specific area, street, building, or other location, the
franchisee shall designate same and clearly indicate in its application for a
franchise in accordance herewith the technical or economic reason for its
inability to provide service in the enumerated locations.
   (C)   The franchisee is not required under this chapter or any contract
granted hereunder to extend its facilities to any area unless there exists in
that area a potential of at least 35 subscribers per mile of trunk cable
system. When the potential of 35 subscribers per mile does not exist, the
company may make a charge at actual cost, including labor and material for
cable extension, for service in this portion of the system.
(Prior Code, § 115.10) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.11 TIME SCHEDULE AFTER FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   The franchisee shall adhere to the following time schedules.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the effective date of the ordinance awarding the
franchise, the franchisee shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all
necessary permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its
business, including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment
agreements, microwave carrier licenses, and any other permits, licenses, and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the operation of CATV systems, or their associated microwave
transmission facilities.
   (B)   The company agrees to comply with all of the procedural requirements
of the FCC. The franchisee shall notify all necessary parties, including the
FCC, within 30 days following the effective date of the ordinance awarding a
franchise hereunder, of its intent to operate a cable communications system,
and shall begin construction within the time period set forth in the
franchisee’s application for a franchise hereunder. If for any reason the
franchisee has not notified all parties within the 30 days, then the franchise
shall be considered null and void.
   (C)   Within the time period specified in the franchisee’s proposal, the
franchisee shall have achieved substantial completion of construction. However,
the date to substantially complete construction shall be extended by the number
of days of delay of the franchisee caused by strikes, lockouts, fire, unusual
delay in transportation, unavoidable casualties, or other such delays
authorized by the City Commission. (Prior Code, § 115.11) (Ord. 240.2, passed
5-25-1981)
§ 115.12 INSTALLATION AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall extend cable to new developments and subdivisions
and to other areas, including, but not limited to, blocks or streets,
simultaneously with the installation of electric power and telephone utility
facilities, provided it is contiguous to any part of the installed CATV system.
If it is not, than service shall be extended as soon as same is contiguous to
any part of the installed CATV system.
   (B)   In all cases where new development and subdivisions are to be
constructed and to be served in whole or in part by both underground power and
telephone utilities, the owner or developer of such areas shall provide the
franchisee a trench, backfill, and all necessary substructures for cables in
order that the franchisee may install all necessary electronic cable
communication facilities. In no event shall such undergrounding be at any cost
or expense to the city.
   (C)   Failure to install cable in accordance with the construction timetable
as provided in §
115.11, or to extend cable within 90 days of a subscriber’s request for service
to new developments, subdivisions or other areas in instances controlled by
divisions (A) and (B) above shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and a
material breach of any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith
shall subject the franchisee to all the penalties and remedies prescribed in
this chapter as well as all other remedies, both legal and equitable, which are
available to the city.
   (D)   Cable communications service shall be made available to all individual
dwellings, residences, including apartments, condominiums, cooperative or
associate building, institutions, organizations, businesses, and all other
entities within the designated franchise area as the same now or in the future
may exist.
   (E)   Installation and service fees for the first television set of any
subscriber shall be uniform for all entities listed in division (D) above.
Installation or subscriber use of cable communications system service which
involves retransmission of the cable signal to multiple reception points within
a structure shall be negotiated separately by the franchisee and the owner of
the structure or the subscriber. Service to condominium buildings shall be on
such conditions as the governing body of the tenants in common may provide and
as are agreed upon by the franchisee. Neither the franchisee nor the city shall
be responsible or liable for any failure to provide cable communications
service to a lessee or condominium owner whose lessor or governing body refuses
the installation of such service. The provisions of cable communications
services to any multiple dwelling structure shall not be conditioned upon the
purchase by the owner, lessor, or governing body of such structure of any
service of the franchisee or any persons designated by it.
   (F)   Residential installation, including multiple drops, shall be offered
as the federal line passes the dwelling unit.
   (G)   All of the franchisee’s cable equipment shall be removed within a
reasonable time, such time not to exceed one month from a subscriber’s property
at the subscriber’s written request.
      (1)   Where such removal interferes with the provision of cable
communications services to another subscriber, it shall be the obligation of
the subscriber so affected to secure a legal agreement which will enable the
franchisee to provide the subscriber the cable communications service the
subscriber desires.
      (2)   Where attachment to or use of a non-subscriber’s property is
necessary for the provision of cable communications services to a subscriber,
it shall be the obligation of such subscriber to secure a legal agreement which
will enable the franchisee to provide the service the subscriber desires.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a representation,
promise or guarantee by the city that any permit or other authorization
required under any city law for the construction or installation of a cable
communications system shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 115.12) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The cable communications system shall be designed for operation 24
hours per day and shall endure service interruptions only for good cause and
for a reasonable time. Permissible interruptions of service shall be for the
shortest possible time.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in the county which shall be
open to the general public during normal business hours.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have a publicly listed telephone number, and the
franchisee shall employ an operator or maintain a telephone answering device 24
hours per day, each day of the year to receive subscriber complaints.
   (D)   The franchisee shall maintain a maintenance and repair service capable
of responding to subscriber complaints or requests for repairs within 24 hours
after the receipt of the complaint or request. If the franchisee or any of its
shareholders owning at least 3% of its stock, or any subsidiary, parent, or
affiliated corporation of the franchisee engages in the business or activity of
selling, leasing, repairing, dismantling, or installing television or radio
receivers, or accessories for such receivers, cameras, audio or video tape
machines, videotapes, microphones, control boxes, modulators, or other
equipment utilized by users or subscribers in the operation of any cable
communications system, the franchisee shall not condition cable communications
service or the continuation thereof or usage of cable communications facility
on a subscriber’s purchase of or failure to purchase any of such services or
equipment.
   (E)   In the event that its service to subscribers is interrupted for 48 or
more consecutive hours, except for acts of God, riots, or a state or emergency
declared by the President of the United States, the Governor of the state, or
the County Judge/Executive, the franchisee shall grant the affected subscriber
a pro rata credit or rebate for the duration of the interruption. An
unreasonable interruption of subscriber services shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and a breach of any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance
herewith, and shall subject the franchisee to all of the penalties and remedies
prescribed in the agreement as well as all other remedies, both equal and
equitable, which are available to the city.
   (F)   The franchisee shall not deny or delay service or use of cable
communication facilities or otherwise discriminate against subscribers or users
on the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex, national origin, or marital
status.
   (G)   The franchisee shall maintain in constant readiness equipment capable
of providing standby powering of the headend, transportation, and trunk
amplifiers for a minimum of four hours.
      (1)   Said equipment shall be constructed so as to revert automatically
to a standby mode when alternating current power returns.
      (2)   The franchisee shall comply with all utility and other safety
regulations to prevent a standby generator from powering the dead utility line
so as to prevent injury to any person.
(Prior Code, § 115.13) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 SYSTEM DESIGN.
   The franchisee shall install a first quality cable system, using equipment
designated by a major supplier of CATV equipment.
   (A)   All necessary return-path, amplifiers, or amplifier modules shall
provide maximum two-way service capability, and shall be installed at the time
of initial construction.
   (B)   The number of channels to be proved and their use shall be described
in the franchise proposal.
(Prior Code, § 115.14) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.15 PRIVACY.
   The franchisee shall strictly observe the privacy and property rights of
subscribers. The subscriber’s rights of privacy shall be protected at all times
by the franchisee. Individual subscriber preferences, viewing habits, beliefs,
philosophy, creeds, religions, or political beliefs shall not be revealed to
any person, firm, agency, governmental unit, police department, or
investigating agency unless upon the authority of a court of law or upon prior
voluntary valid written authorization of the subscriber, which shall not in any
event be required as a condition of receiving service.
   (A)   Without the authorization described herein, neither the franchisee nor
any other person shall in any manner activate, utilize, or otherwise operate
any channel from a subscriber’s location.
   (B)   Every subscriber shall have the absolute right to deactivate the
return path from the subscriber’s receiver at the franchisee’s sole cost.
   (C)   The franchisee shall not tabulate any test results, nor permit the use
of its cable communications system for such tabulation, which would reveal the
commercial product preferences or opinions of subscribers, members of their
families, or their invitees, licensees, or employees.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this section of this chapter shall be
considered a material breach of this chapter and any agreement or ordinance
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall subject the franchisee
to all penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter, as well as all other
legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
   (E)   Each compilation, publication, tabulation, or other dissemination of
each piece of information made or permitted to be made in violation of this
section shall be considered a separate violation of this chapter.
   (F)   A subscriber may at any time revoke any authorization previously made
by delivering to the franchisee in writing a substantial indication of his or
her intent to so revoke. Any such revocation shall be effective on receipt by
the franchisee.
(Prior Code, § 115.15) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 INTERCONNECTION AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to as to prohibit the franchisee
from interconnecting its network with other similar networks either in the city
or in other municipalities, counties, states, or countries. Any applicable
revenues derived therefrom shall be equitably allocated in the calculation of
annual gross subscriber revenues.
(Prior Code, § 115.16) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.17 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency or disaster, a franchisee shall, upon the
request of the County Judge/Executive, make available its facilities to the
city or to the county, state, or federal government, at no cost for emergency
use during the period of such emergency or disaster, and shall provide such
personnel as necessary to properly operate the system under the circumstances.
   (B)   The franchisee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability of
an override alert system whereby the County Judge/Executive, in a time of
crisis, may be able to introduce a bulletin on all channels simultaneously.
   (C)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary in the reasonable judgment of the Mayor of the city, to cut or
move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, or another appurtenances to the
network of the franchisee, such cutting or moving may be done, and any repairs
rendered necessary thereby shall be made by the franchisee, at its sole expense
provided that such repairs are not necessitated by a negligence act of the
city, in which case cost for repairs shall be borne by the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.17) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.18 RATES.
   (A)   The City Commission expressly reserves the right and retains its
jurisdiction to authorize, establish, and approve all rates which the
franchisee charges subscribers, including rates for subscriber service,
equipment, maintenance, and repair. By acceptance of a franchise, the
franchisee agrees that the City Commission shall have such power, right, and
jurisdiction. All rates and charges shall be nondiscriminatory.
   (B)   No rate, fee, or charge of any kind shall be charged or collected from
subscribers by the franchisee without the authorization and approval of the
City Commission. Violation of this section shall be deemed to be a breach of
any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith and shall subject the
franchisee to all remedies and penalties prescribed in this chapter and to all
other remedies, legal and equitable, which are available to the city.
   (C)   The initial rates to be charged and collected from subscribers shall
be in conformity with the franchisee’s application hereunder, and established
in the agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall remain
in force for a minimum of 30 months from and after the date of execution of the
said agreement and the effective date of the ordinance awarding the franchise;
provided, however, that should the City Commission determine to amend any
franchise within the purview of §
115.28 hereof, the franchisee may request rate increases or decreases in
accordance with this section.
   (D)   The franchisee shall file with the City Clerk on December 31 each year
a full schedule of all subscriber and user rates and all other charges made in
connection with the operation of the cable communications system.
      (1)   Any and all special rates for institutions, motels, hotels, inns,
multiple-family dwelling units, or any other type of subdwelling units, or any
other type of subscriber shall be included.
      (2)   All rates shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the reduction
or waiving of charges in conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose
of attracting subscribers of users.
   (F)   The franchisee shall neither impose nor collect any additional charge
for the disconnection of any installation or outlet.
   (G)   In the event that a subscriber fails to pay a properly due and owing
fee or charge, the franchisee may disconnect the subscriber’s service outlet,
upon giving ten days’ written notice thereof.
   (H)   The franchisee shall establish and conform to the following policy
regarding refunds to subscribers and users.
      (1)   If the franchisee collects a deposit or advance charge on any
service or equipment requested by a subscriber or user, the franchisee shall
provide said service or equipment within 30 days of the collection of the
deposit or charge or it shall refund said deposit or charge within five days
thereafter.
         (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any responsibility to subscribers or users under any contractual
agreements into which it enters with them.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the
franchisee’s liability for penalties which may be imposed under this chapter or
for the violation or breach of any of its provisions.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
franchisee’s liability for damages because of its failure to provide the
service for which the deposit or charge was made.
      (2)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service during the first
12 months because of the failure of the franchisee to render the service in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter, or in any agreement
or ordinance in accordance herewith, the franchisee shall refund to such
subscriber an amount equal to the initial applicable installation or
reconnection charge paid by the subscriber.
         (a)   In the event that such subscriber has made an advance payment,
the amount so advanced shall be refunded to such subscriber by the franchisee.
         (b)   Nothing in this provision shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any liability established under any other provision of this
chapter or any agreement or ordinance in accordance herewith.
      (3)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service prior to the end
of a prepaid period, the pro rata portion of any prepaid subscriber fee which
represents payment for services which are no longer to be rendered shall be
refunded promptly, but in no case more than 30 days after receipt of the
request for termination.
   (I)   The franchisee shall not charge a converter security deposit greater
than the converter’s actual cost to the franchisee. Any converter security
deposit collected by the franchisee shall be returned to the subscriber 36
months after the installation of such converter or within 60 days upon
termination of service by the subscriber and return of converter undamaged,
with allowance for reasonable wear and tear, and payment of any outstanding
balance due and payable.
   (J)   A franchisee may, from time to time, subject to the limitation
contained in division (C) above, request of the City Commission rate increases
or decreases. A franchisee shall be allowed to increase its rates and charges
if it is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Commission that it
is unable to realize a fair return on its investment without a rate or charge
increase. The City Commission shall establish the procedure for hearings and
review of any such request. The City Commission may allow a rate or charge
reduction at any time if it shall determine that the existing rates and charges
unreasonably restrict the growth of cable television in the city and that the
proposed rates and charges will continue to allow the franchisee a reasonable
profit. Any such request shall be made not less than 60 days in advance of the
effective date of the charge or charges requested.
   (K)   A franchisee may, at any time, request of the City Commission
establishment, authorization, and approval of rates and charges for new or
additional services which the franchisee desires to offer its subscribers. Any
such request shall be made no less than 60 days in advance of the offering of
such new or additional services.
   (L)   In the event the franchisee for the city also has a CATV franchise for
the unincorporated area of the county, the rates for like services in the city
shall not exceed the rates charged for identical services in the unincorporated
areas of the county.
   (M)   No charge shall be made to the city for its use of government access
channels, and under no circumstances shall the city be obligated to pay to a
franchisee any fee for service rendered to the city under the terms of the
franchise.
   (N)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the setting of special
rates for certain classes of citizens as for certain types of subscriber
service, when, by the determination of the City Commission, and at is sole
discretion, such special rates are justified by the potential of such service
to assist with the health, care, or safety of such citizens.
(Prior Code, § 115.18) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.19 POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any agreement or ordinance in accordance
herewith shall be construed as an abrogation by the city of any of its police
powers.
(Prior Code, § 115.19) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.20 TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not transfer, assign, sell, lease, or dispose of
its interest in any franchise, ordinance, or agreement awarding a franchise in
accordance herewith or in its cable communications system without the prior
written authorization of the City Commission. A merger or consolidation shall
be deemed a transfer or assignment.
   (B)   During the term of any franchise, the franchisee shall not sell,
transfer, assign, lease, dispose of, exchange, or release more than 25% of the
ownership of its cable communications system to a person, (hereinafter
“proposed transferee”) without the prior written authorization of City
Commission. The City Commission may require such information as it reasonably
deemed necessary from the franchisee in connection with a proposal to sell,
transfer, assign, lease, dispose of, exchange, or release of more than 25% of
the ownership of its cable communications system.
   (C)   Any proposed transferee shall execute an agreement, in the form and
containing the conditions approved by the City Attorney, that it will assume
and be bound by all of the provisions, terms, and conditions of this chapter
and any agreement or ordinance in accordance herewith and all applicable
federal, state, and local laws, and, further, that it shall be primarily liable
and obligated under said documents without, however, relieving the franchisee
from its obligations to the city under said document.
   (D)   No transfer under divisions (A) or (B) above shall be made within 13
months of the termination date of the term of franchise agreement.
   (E)   Nothing in any approval by the City Commission of any transfer or
assignment of any ownership interest pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above
shall be construed to waive or release any rights of the city in and to the
streets, public ways, and public places of the city or as a release of any of
the city’s police powers.
   (F)   The occurrence of any event which constitutes either grounds for entry
of an order for relief under the United States Bankruptcy Code, or placement of
the franchisee into receivership, or the issuance of any order to the
franchisee or any of its stockholders by a government agency or court of
competent jurisdiction to divest any interest related to the cable
communications system hereunder, or the entry of any judgment against the
franchisee which, in the opinion of the City Commission, impairs the
franchisee’s credit shall be deemed an unauthorized transfer and assignment
under the provisions of this section and shall:
      (1)   Be deemed a material breach and default of any agreement or
ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith; and
      (2)   Subject the franchisee to all penalties and remedies prescribed in
the agreement and to all other remedies, legal and equitable, which are
available to the city.
   (G)   The occurrence of an unauthorized transfer or assignment may, at the
option of the city, terminate any agreement or franchise and accelerate all of
the obligations and rights thereunder including, inter alia, the right of the
city to purchase the cable communications system at book value or to award a
franchise to another person. The franchisee shall notify the City Clerk of any
occurrence which constitutes an unauthorized transfer under the provisions of
division (F) above and of the entry of any judgment against it within 24 hours
of such occurrence.
   (H)   From and after any of the occurrences enumerated in division (F)
above, the franchisee shall not make, execute, or enter into any deed, deed of
trust, mortgage, contract, conditional sales contract, or any loan, lease,
pledge, sale, pole agreement, or any other agreement or hypothecation
concerning any of the facilities or property, real or personal, of the cable
communications system without the written approval of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 115.20) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.21 ABANDONMENT BY FRANCHISEE.
   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for any
reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event
such system or property has been installed in any street or public place
without complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, cancelled, or have expired, the franchisee
shall promptly remove from the streets and public places all such property and
poles of such system, other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned
in place. In the event of such removal, the franchisee shall promptly restore
the street or other area from which such property has been removed to a
condition satisfactory to the City Commission. Any property of a franchisee to
be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in such manner as City Commission may
prescribe. Upon a permanent abandonment of the property of a franchisee in
place, the franchisee shall submit to the City Commission an instrument to be
approved by the City Commission transferring to the city ownership of such
property.
(Prior Code, § 115.21) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.22 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmissions and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the franchisee within the city shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public
ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of said streets,
alleys, or other public places. The cable communications system shall be
constructed and operated in compliance with all adopted local and national
construction and safety codes.
   (B)   The installation of the cable communications system shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the state and the city affecting electrical installations and buildings, now
or hereafter in effect.
   (C)   Except when absolutely necessary to service a subscriber and not
simply because it shall be more convenient, economical, or profitable for the
franchisee to so operate, and then only when expressly permitted in writing by
the City Engineer or the Mayor, under such conditions as he or she shall
prescribe for the public welfare, the franchisee shall not erect, authorize, or
permit others to erect any poles or other facilities within the streets of the
city for conduct of its cable communications system, but shall use the existing
poles and other equipment of the appropriate electrical power and telephone or
other utility companies under such terms and agreements as the franchisee shall
negotiate with these companies. The franchisee shall use its best efforts to
ensure that the terms and agreements between the franchisee and any utility
company are concluded in a reasonable time with no unnecessary delay.
   (D)   Should the franchisee be required to place any lines or other
equipment on any boulevard, parkway, or other property under control of the
Metropolitan Parks and Recreation Board, the manner of placement and location
thereof shall be subject to the control of said Board.
   (E)   The franchisee may trim trees which infringe upon easements, rights-
of-way, or streets of the city to prevent the trees from coming in contact with
the cable communications system.
   (F)   The franchisee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate, or remove any property of the franchisee located on
streets, public places, rights-of-way, and easements of the city, when required
by the City Commission because of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines,
and tracks or any other type of structures or improvements by the city or the
state. If the franchisee fails to do so, the city or the state may cause the
necessary work to be completed and the franchisee shall pay the cost thereof
within ten days of receipt of an itemized account of such cost.
   (G)   Whenever the city or the state shall require the relocation or
reinstallation of any property of the franchisee in any of the streets or
public places of the city, it shall be the obligation of the franchisee upon
notice of such requirement to immediately remove and relocate or reinstall said
property as may be reasonably necessary at the sole cost of the franchisee.
   (H)   Whenever in any place within the city, all or any part of the electric
or telephone utilities shall be located underground, it shall be the obligation
of the franchisee to locate or to cause its property to be located underground
within such places. If the electric or telephone utilities shall be located
underground, in any place within the city after the franchisee shall have
previously installed its property, nevertheless, the franchisee shall, at the
time or immediately thereafter, remove and relocate its property also
underground in such places. If the franchisee shall in any case be unable for
operational reasons only, to locate or relocate any part of its property
underground, then in that event, the City Engineer or the Mayor, upon being
satisfied as to the facts thereof and subject to the concurrence of the City
Commission, may permit such property to remain above the ground even though
other facilities may be placed underground in the area. However, any such
permission shall be upon such conditions as the City Commission may require for
the public welfare. Any facilities of the franchise placed underground at the
property owner’s request, in an area where electric and telephone facilities
are aerial, shall be installed with the additional expense paid by the property
owner.
   (I)   In the case of disturbance of any street caused by the franchisee, the
franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
City Engineer or the Mayor, replace and restore such street in such condition
as before the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (J)   The franchisee shall upon request temporarily raise or lower its wires
to permit the moving of buildings or other things. The expense of such
temporary removal, raising, or lowering of the wires shall be paid by the
person requesting the same and the franchisee shall have the authority to
require such payment in advance. The franchisee shall be given not less than 72
hours’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(Prior Code, § 115.22) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.23 ARRANGEMENTS BY FRANCHISEE WITH OTHERS.
   There is hereby granted to the franchisee authority to lease, rent, or in
any other manner obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other
equipment and facilities from any and all holders of public licenses and
utilities within the city, including, but not limited to, the South Central
Bell Telephone Company and Louisville Gas and Electric Company, and in each
instance the franchisee shall make its own contractual arrangements with such
entity in order to obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other
facilities and shall report their arrangements to the City Engineer or the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 115.23) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.24 REVIEW, RENEWAL, TERMINATION, AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Review and renewal. The procedure for renewal or termination of any
franchise, agreement, or ordinance awarding the franchise in accordance
herewith shall require public hearings prior to action by the City Commission.
Hearings in connection with a renewal of a franchise shall take place not less
than 90 days prior to the termination of the franchise. The City Commission
shall, after hearing, take such action as it deems appropriate, which may
include any of the following:
      (1)   The City Commission may renew the franchise agreement and ordinance
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith upon such conditions as it may
direct;
      (2)   The City Commission may authorize the franchisee to transfer the
cable communications system to another acceptable franchisee or cable
communications system to another acceptable franchisee or cable operator;
      (3)   The City Commission may solicit proposals for and execute a new
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance with this chapter and any
amendments hereto; or
      (4)   The City Commission may determine not to authorize the award of any
further franchise, and thereupon may direct the franchisee to dismantle its
cable communications system. If the franchisee determines not to renew the
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, the City Commission
shall proceed to follow one of the courses under divisions (B)(2) or (B)(3)
below.
   (B)   Termination.
      (1)   The City Commission may terminate any agreement awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith in the event of the violation of any provision
hereof or of any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant hereto or of any
applicable federal, state, or local law, or the breach or other failure,
refusal, or neglect by the franchisee to performs its obligations under the
terms and conditions of the ordinance or franchise or of any ordinance or
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, except when such
violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect is caused by any of the
following:
         (a)   Act of God;
         (b)   Riot;
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor, the County Judge/Executive, or the Mayor; or
         (d)   A condition beyond the control of the franchisee.
      (2)   In the event the City Commission determines that the franchisee has
violated any provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state, or local law, or any term of an
agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, except as noted in division (B)
above, the City Commission shall make a written demand on the franchisee that
it comply with the law or said agreement or ordinance. If the violation,
breach, failure, refusal, or neglect is not remedied to the satisfaction of the
City Commission within 30 days following such demand, the City Commission shall
determine in its sole discretion, whether or not such violation, breach,
failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was excusable or inexcusable as
provided in division (B) above.
         (a)   If the City Commission determines such violation, breach,
failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was excusable as provided in
division (B) above, the City Commission shall direct the franchisee to correct
or remedy the same with such additional time, in such manner and upon such
terms and conditions as the City Commission may direct.
         (b)   If the City Commission determines such violation, breach,
failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable as provided in
division (B) above, then the City Commission shall declare this chapter, the
franchise, or the agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance
herewith breached, terminated, and of no further force and effect. This action
shall be taken by ordinance. Termination shall in no way limit the rights of
the city or the franchisee to any remedies legal or equitable, available to the
city or franchisee.
      (3)   If the City Commission declares the agreement breached pursuant to
division (B) above, the City Commission may pursue any remedies available to it
pursuant to this chapter or to the franchise agreement or ordinance or any
other remedy, legal or equitable, available to the City Commission. In
addition, the City Commission may take action listed in division (B)(2) above.
      (4)   In the event that the franchisee dismantles or terminates the cable
communications system or is required by any provision of this chapter to
dismantle or terminate the cable communications system, the franchisee shall,
at the City Commission’s direction, restore any property, public or private, to
the condition in which it existed prior to the erection or construction of the
system, including any improvements made to such property subsequent to the
construction of the system. Restoration of city property, including, but not
limited to, streets, shall be in accordance with the directions and
specifications of the City Commission and all applicable laws. The franchisee,
at the option and direction of the City Commission, shall restore the same at
its expense.
(Prior Code, § 115.24) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.25 REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise issued hereunder may, after hearing, be revoked,
altered, or suspended by the City Commission as it deems necessary on any of
the following grounds:
      (1)   For willfully false or misleading statement in, or material
omissions from, any application;
      (2)   For failure to file and maintain the bonds required under this
chapter;
      (3)   For repeated failure, as determined by the City Commission, to
maintain signal quality;
      (4)   For any sale, lease, assignment, or other transfer of its permit
without consent of the City Commission;
      (5)   For an inability to provide CATV service to subscribers at the
rates authorized by the City Commission;
      (6)   For failure to properly provide service to subscribers or to the
city; and
      (7)   For violation of the terms of its franchise or the agreement or
ordinance awarding same or of this chapter as stated herein. In addition to all
other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to the City Commission, the City
Commission reserves as an additional and as a separate and distinct remedy the
right to revoke the franchise and all right and privileges of the franchisee
thereunder in any of the following events or for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   The franchisee shall, by act or omission, fail to comply with
any term or condition of this chapter and shall within 30 days following
written demand by the City Commission to effect such compliance fail or refuse
to do so;
         (b)   Any provision of this chapter shall be finally adjudged by a
court of law invalid or unenforceable and the City Commission further finds
that such provision constitutes at that time a consideration material to the
continuance of the franchise herein granted;
         (c)   The franchisee becomes insolvent; unable, unwilling, or fails to
pay its debts as such debts become due; or a custodian, receiver, trustee, or
agent appointed or authorized to do so is appointed or takes charge of less
than substantially all or substantially all of the property of a franchisee for
the purpose of enforcing any lien, whether judicial, execution, or otherwise;
is the subject debtor of an order for relief entered by a bankruptcy court; or
all or part of a franchisee’s facilities be sold under an instrument to secure
a debt and are not redeemed by the franchisee within 30 days from said sales;
or
         (d)   The franchisee attempts to or practices any fraud or deceit in
its conduct or relations under the franchise.
   (B)   No such revocation shall be effective unless or until the City
Commission shall have adopted an ordinance setting forth the cause and reasons
for the revocation and the effective date thereof; provided that the ordinance
shall not be adopted without 30 days’ prior notice thereof to the franchisee
and a full opportunity offered to the franchisee to be heard upon the proposed
adoption of said ordinance. The franchisee shall not be declared in default or
be subject to any sanction under any provision of this contract in any case in
which the performance of any such provision is prevented for reasons beyond its
control.
(Prior Code, § 115.25) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.26 FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the cable communications system, or upon the termination of any lease
covering all or a substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify
the City Commission of such fact, and such notification shall be treated as a
notification that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place and the
provisions of this chapter governing the consent of the City Commission to such
change in control of the franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The City Commission shall have the right to cancel this franchise 120
days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct
the business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days,
or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election of appointment, such
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of
this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise thereunder,
and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days, shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every
provision of this chapter and the agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 115.26) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.27 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in the county for as long as
it continues to operate the cable communications system or any portion thereof,
and hereby designates such office as the place where all notices, directions,
orders, and requests may be served or delivered under this chapter. The City
Commission shall be notified of the locations of such office or any change
thereof.
   (B)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (C)   The City Commission and its representatives shall have access to all
books of account and records of the franchisee for the purpose of ascertaining
the correctness of any and all reports, and may examine its officers and
employees in respect thereto.
   (D)   Any false entry in the book of account or records submitted to the
City Commission and its representatives to a material fact, knowingly made by
the franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material provision of this
chapter, and any franchise agreement or ordinance hereunder, for which the
remedies provided in this chapter may be invoked.
(Prior Code, § 115.27) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.28 NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   It shall be the policy of the City Commission to liberally amend any
franchise of its own violation or upon application of a franchisee, after
public hearing, when necessary to require or enable a franchisee to take
advantage of any developments in the field of transmission of television and
radio signals which would afford the franchisee an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve its customers so that at all
times the cable communications system shall be no less advanced than any other
system of comparable size, excepting only systems which are experimental,
pilot, or demonstration.
(Prior Code, § 115.28) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.29 TIME OF ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder, shall set forth any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf
of a franchisee, such time shall be deemed of the essence, and any failure of a
franchisee to perform within the time set forth shall constitute a material
breach of the terms of this chapter and shall entitle the City Commission to
invoke all penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all
other legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.29) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.30 FRANCHISEE NOT TO CONTEST VALIDITY OF FRANCHISE OR CHAPTER.
   By acceptance of any franchise hereunder, a franchisee covenants and agrees
that it will not at any time or in any manner or proceeding set up any term or
condition of this chapter or of any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder as unreasonable, arbitrary, voidable, or void, or that the City
Commission had not the power or authority to make such term or condition, but
shall be required to accept the validity of same in their entirety.
(Prior Code, § 115.30) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
§ 115.31 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the incorporated areas of the
city any television, radio, or nonbroadcast signals by means of a cable
communications system unless a franchise therefor has first been obtained from
the City Commission and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, or maintain
within any public street in the incorporated areas of the city equipment or
facilities for distributing any television, radio, or nonbroadcast signals
through a cable communications system, unless a franchise authorizing such use
of such street or property or area has first been obtained from the City
Commission and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of taking or
receiving television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sound, or
other nonbroadcast signals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of enabling
himself, herself, or others to receive any television signal, radio signal,
picture, programs, sound, or other signals without payment to the owner of said
system.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any cables, wire, or equipment used
in any cable communications system.
(Prior Code, § 115.31) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $250 or by imprisonment, except that a
corporation shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$5,000.
   (B)   Each day that a person violates or fails to comply with the terms of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 240.2, passed 5-25-1981)
CHAPTER 116: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Registration of rental dwellings
   
116.03   Condition of rental property
   
116.04   Issuance of permit
   
116.05   Rental property license application
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association,
corporation, or other entity, which represents the owner of a rental dwelling
for purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation, or
other entity holding legal or equitable title in a rental dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING or RENTAL PROPERTY. Any residential dwelling, which is in
whole or in part occupied by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or
written agreement for monetary or any other consideration, but which person(s)
is not acquiring an ownership interest in the dwelling. It does not include
dwellings that are occupied only by members of the owner’s immediate family,
who do not pay rent. This definition includes residential dwellings known
generically as “Airbnbs” that are rented on a short-term basis.
   TENANT. Any person, other than an owner, occupying all or part of a rental
dwelling.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-22-2018)
§ 116.02 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Registration required. All owners of rental dwellings shall annually
register the rental property with the city on an application in a form provided
by the city. At the time an application is filed, a registration fee of $250
shall be paid in full.
   (B)   Annual registration. The annual registration date shall be July 1 of
each year beginning January 1, 2018.
   (C)   Registration of new rental dwellings. The owner of a new rental
dwelling or of any dwelling newly converted to a rental dwelling shall register
the rental dwelling prior to allowing occupancy.
   (D)   Change in registration information. If there is any change in the
information supplied in a rental application, the owner must reregister within
60 days after any change occurs in registration information but does not have
to pay another $250 registration fee.
   (E)   Registration of rental dwellings. Application for registration or
reregistration shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   The number of rental dwelling units;
      (3)   The name, residence address, business address, business phone
number and personal phone number of the owner, and/or the local agent, if
applicable;
      (4)   The address where the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable,
will accept notices or orders from the city; and
      (5)   Notification that all state and city taxes levied and assessed
against the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of the filing
of the application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may result in
the denial of an application for registration or reregistration under this
section.
   (F)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (G)   Designation of local agent. If the owner of a rental dwelling, or a
responsible member or officer of the owner, does not reside within 60 miles of
the city, the owner shall designate a responsible local agent who shall be
legally responsible for operating such rental dwelling in compliance with this
chapter and other applicable laws or regulations. All official notices may be
served on the responsible local agent, and any notice so served shall be deemed
to have been served upon the owner of record.
   (H)   More than one owner or ownership entity. Where more than one person
has an ownership interest, the required information shall be provided for each
owner. If those cases in which the owner is not a person, the information
required for registration shall be provided for the organization owning the
rental dwelling and for the president, general manager, director(s), partner
(s), executor, trustee(s), or other chief executive officer(s) of the
organization.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-22-2018) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 CONDITION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All rental property must be kept in compliance with the city’s
ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville Ordinances, as a condition of operating
a rental property in the city.
   (B)   The registration application must be accurate and complete. If there
is any change in the application information, it must be updated within 60
days.
   (C)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent any excessive noise at any property line.
   (D)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent violations of the city’s parking ordinance by tenants of the rental
unit.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-22-2018)
§ 116.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Within 30 days of receipt of an application for registration (or
reregistration), along with the registration fee, by the city, the city shall
either issue the owner a permit to operate the rental property, or, if the city
decides not to issue the permit, the city shall provide a written list of
deficiencies or violations that must be corrected before a permit may be
issued.
   (B)   If the owner contests the permit denial, the owner may appeal the
denial to the full City Commission. The appeal must be filed within 20 days of
the receipt of the denial by owner. The appeal will be heard by the full
Commission at its next regular city meeting, at which time the owner may
present evidence relevant to whether the rental property is in compliance with
the requirements above.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-22-2018)
§ 116.05 RENTAL PROPERTY LICENSE APPLICATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ec9288eaa3178688677c71ec2a896e25e8b2263f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-986.png]
 
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-22-2018)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and fined $500.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandate a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed thereon.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil penalty of $1,000
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the City Attorney.
The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with the
criminal penalties authorized herein. In addition, and/or in conjunction with
the civil remedies above, the city may elect to place a lien against the
property relating to the unpaid rental registration fee penalty for the amount
of the penalty plus the cost(s) of filing the lien plus an Attorney’s fee of
$100.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 1-22-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   TREES AND SHRUBS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of state codes
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Building permit; fees
   
150.04   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES.
   The State Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of the State
Administrative Regulations; the State Residential Code, as contained in Title
815, Chapter 7 of the State Administrative Regulations; the State Plumbing
Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 20 of the State Administrative
Regulations; the State Standards of Safety, as contained in Title 815, Chapter
10 of the State Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.
Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in
the office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code and State Residential Code shall
be extended to all single-family dwellings in the city which are to be
constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Prior to the time of construction of any building, or addition
thereto, is commenced, a complete set of blueprints with reference to the
proposed building or alteration shall be submitted to the City Clerk. A
building permit must first be obtained from the County Building Official at a
cost of $20 prior to commencement of any work, said permit to be issued if the
plans and specifications conform to existing zoning and restrictions affecting
said property.
   (B)   Likewise, before any building construction or alteration project in
the city is instituted, a deposit of $75 shall be made to the City Clerk for
the purpose of ensuring that all waste, debris, and any and all other
extraneous building material are removed from the building site within a
reasonable time after the project has been completed or to remove the same if
for any reason the project is unduly delayed or abandoned prior to completion.
In the event extraneous material is removed satisfactorily after the project
has been completed, the deposit of $75 shall be refunded to the individual or
firm who made the deposit.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the city to investigate any and all violations
of this section and to enforce it generally.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
   (C)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99)
Statutory reference:
   Violations of State Building or Residential Code; penalty, see KRS 227.990
(1)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
151.01   Opening permit required
   
151.02   Application and cash deposit
   
151.03   Restoration of pavement
   
151.04   Barriers around excavations
   
151.05   Warning lights
   
151.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
151.20   Public hearing required
   
151.21   Notice requirements
   
151.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
151.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
151.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
151.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
151.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
151.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
151.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
151.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
151.99   Penalty
**** EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION ****
§ 151.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall
be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city official,
conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 151.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
151.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it.
      (2)   If the amount of the services performed by the city should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper administrative
officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
§ 151.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to
supervise construction or repair of sidewalks within the city.
      (2)   He or she shall cause specifications to be prepared for the
construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit the specifications
to the City Commission for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period
not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish
good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work.
   (C)   The City Commission may make separate contracts for the different
kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
**** ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS ****
§ 151.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) through (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of
tax monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 151.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 151.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 151.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 151.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 151.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   Provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(6))
**** OBSTRUCTIONS ****
§ 151.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 152: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Residential Maintenance
   
152.01   Maintenance of premises and landscape elements
   
152.02   Notice and abatement
   
152.03   Lien resulting from abatement by city
Commercial Maintenance
   
152.15   Maintenance of commercial premises and landscape elements
   
152.16   Notice and abatement
   
152.17   Lien resulting from abatement by city
 
   
152.99   Penalty
**** RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE ****
§ 152.01 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES AND LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS.
   Any owner, or his or her agent, or occupant of property located within the
city limits shall be subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   All premises and landscape elements shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary, and sightly condition, including, but not limited to, steps, walks,
driveways, fences, decks, retaining walls, shrubs, trees, grass, weeds, leaves,
easements, and rights-of-way.
   (B)   Weeds, shrubs, grass, and trees shall be kept trimmed and from
becoming overgrown.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs which have branches projecting into the public right-
of-way or easements shall be kept trimmed 15 feet above the public roadways.
Additionally, any tree or shrub or other plant form afflicted with decay or
vegetation sickness which can be transmitted to other trees, shrubs, or plants
shall be treated or removed.
   (D)   All fences, decks, retaining walls, or similar structures shall be
firmly anchored in the ground and maintained in good structural repair. Wooden
structures subject to deterioration from weathering shall be maintained with
chemicals or paint to preserve the structure and retard deterioration.
   (E)   All yards, lots, or similar non-enclosed property shall be kept free
of accumulations of leaves, trash, garbage waste, rubbish, refuse, junk, and
other noxious or offensive materials or substances which may cause a fire
hazard or may act as a breeding place for insects, vermin, or other animals.
   (F)   Inoperable vehicles must be stored within an enclosed structure,
screened from view and subject to all terms and conditions of the Metro
Louisville ordinance on abandoned vehicles.
   (G)   Public roadways shall be kept clear of all yard waste, trimmings, and
other lawn debris.
   (H)   All refuse, recycling, and yard waste receptacles shall be put out for
pick up no earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the day prior to collection and should be
retrieved no later than 8:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
(Ord. 8-2011, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 152.02 NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or his or her agent, or occupant of
property within the city limits not to remedy any violation of the provisions
set out above.
   (B)   Notice in writing may be served upon an owner, his or her agent, or
occupant by hand delivery, first-class mail, or by posting of same on the
property. Such notice shall describe the violation and shall demand abatement
within ten calendar days from the date of notice, except if the violation
constitutes an immediate danger to the health, safety, and well-being of the
community, it shall be abated immediately.
(Ord. 8-2011, passed 2-27-2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 LIEN RESULTING FROM ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Upon failure of any owner, his or her agent, or occupant to comply with the
notice by abating such violations, the city and/or its designated
representative is authorized to enter upon the property to remedy the
condition. The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of the labor and materials used in remedying such situations. This will
include the cost of cutting, clearing, and removal of the violation in addition
to other reasonable actions necessary to abate same. The affidavit of the Mayor
of the city, or the responsible agent designated by the city, shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the proceedings pursuant to
this subchapter, and upon the same being recorded in the office of the County
Clerk, the document shall establish and constitute a lien upon and against the
property wherein such labor and materials were utilized to abate such
violation. Recording of the lien shall be noticed to the public at large of the
existence of a lien, and the same shall bear interest at a rate of 12% per
annum from date of lien and thereafter until paid.
(Ord. 8-2011, passed 2-27-2012)
**** COMMERCIAL MAINTENANCE ****
§ 152.15 MAINTENANCE OF COMMERCIAL PREMISES AND LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS.
   Any owner, and/or his or her agent, or occupant of commercial property
(unless exempted by lease provisions) located within the city limits of the
city shall be subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   All premises and landscape elements shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary, and sightly condition, including, but not limited to, steps, walks,
driveways, fences, decks, retaining walls, shrubs, trees, grass, weeds, leaves,
easements, and rights-of-way.
   (B)   Weeds, shrubs, and trees shall be kept trimmed and from becoming
overgrown and grass shall be kept to six inches in height or less.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs which have branches projecting into the public right-
of-way or easements shall be kept trimmed 15 feet above the public roadways.
Additionally, any tree or shrub or other plant form afflicted with decay or
vegetation sickness which can be transmitted to other trees, shrubs, or plants
shall be treated or removed.
   (D)   All fences, retaining walls, or similar structures shall be firmly
anchored in the ground and maintained in good structural repair. Structures
subject to deterioration from weathering shall be maintained with chemicals or
paint to preserve the structure and retard deterioration.
   (E)   All commercial property shall be kept free of accumulations of leaves,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk, and other noxious or offensive
materials or substances which may cause a fire hazard or may act as a breeding
place for insects, vermin, or other animals.
   (F)   All refuse, recycling, and garbage waste receptacles including
dumpsters shall be maintained in a clean, sightly fashion and shall be placed,
kept, and located in as inconspicuous a location as possible.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed - -2012)
§ 152.16 NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner and/or his or her agent, or
occupant of property (unless exempted by lease provisions) within the city
limits not to remedy any violation of the provisions set out above.
   (B)   Notice in writing may be served upon an owner, and/or his or her agent
or occupant (unless exempted by lease provisions) by hand delivery, first-class
mail, or by posting of same on the property. Such notice shall describe the
violation and shall demand abatement within ten calendar days from the date of
notice, except if the violation constitutes an immediate danger to the health,
safety, and well-being of the community, it shall be abated immediately.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 LIEN RESULTING FROM ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Upon failure of any owner, and/or his or her agent, or occupant (unless
exempted by lease provisions) to comply with the notice by abating such
violations, the city and/or its designated representative is authorized to
enter upon the property to remedy the condition. The city shall have a lien
against the property for the reasonable value of the labor and materials used
in remedying such situations. This will include the cost of cutting, clearing,
and removal of the violation in addition to other reasonable actions necessary
to abate the same. The affidavit of the Mayor of the city, or the responsible
agent designated by the city, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and the proceedings pursuant to this subchapter, and upon
the same being recorded in the office of the County Clerk, the document shall
establish and constitute a lien upon and against the property wherein such
labor and materials were utilized to abate such violation. Recording of the
lien shall be noticed to the public at large of the existence of a lien, and
the same shall bear interest at a rate of 12% per annum from date of lien and
thereafter until paid.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed - -2012)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner, his or her agent, or occupant, who has received
notice of a violation of the provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.03 and who has failed to abate the violation may, in addition to the lien
provided for above in §
152.03(a) [Missing Materials].
      (2)   Any owner, his or her agent, or occupant who violates any provision
of §§
152.01 through
152.03 shall be guilty of a violation which shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $250 per offense. Each day a property remains in violation constitutes a
separate offense.
   (C) Any owner, and/or his or her agent, or occupant (unless exempted by
lease provisions) who has received notice of a violation of the provisions
above and who has failed to abate the violation may, in addition to the lien
provided for above in §
152.17, be charged with a Class A misdemeanor, pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2) and
KRS 534.040(2)(a) and receive a fine in the amount of $500 for each separate
offense(s) plus court cost(s).
(Ord. 8-2011, passed 2-27-2012; Ord. 3-2012, passed - -2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DE- ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET DEDICATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DE-ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing to the city a certain tract of land in the county
                     beginning at the intersection of the south line of
8        6-11-1973   Shelbyville Road with the west line of revised plan of
                     section no. 1-Blue Ridge Manor, west along South Dorsey
                     Way (Block 30 CO2).
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Annexing to the city a certain tract of land in the county
                     adjacent to the present boundary line of the city,
10       7-9-1973    beginning at the southeasternmost corner of Blue Ridge
                     Manor Subdivision, said point being th esoutheasternmos t
                     corner of lot 108, section 2, east to Moser Road (Block
                     433 CO2).
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
10       11-7-1975   Annexing to the city a certain tract of land in the county
                     adjacent to the present boundary line of the city.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
2        1-1-1976    Annexing certain tract of land along U.S. 60 Hwy.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
2        12-15-1976  Annexing to the city a certain tract of land in the county
                     adjacent to the present boundary line of the city.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Annexing to the city a certain tract of land in the county
                     adjacent to the present boundary line of the city,
10       6-26-1978   beginning at the intersection of the norther right-of- way
                     line of U.S. 60 Hwy and the eastern right-of- way line of
                     Dorsey Way, north along Shelbyville Road including
                     Sycamore I (Block 283 CO1; Block 22 CO1).
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
17       11-27-1978  De-annexing certain tract of land, being Sycamore I (Block
                     22 CO1).
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Annexing a certain tract of land in the county beginning
110.2    5-25-1981   at the intersection of the south line of Shelbyville Road
                     with the west line of revised plan of section no. 1-Blue
                     Ridge Manor.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Annexing a certain tract of land in the county beginning
110.3    8-25-1981   at the intersection of the south line of Shelbyville Road
                     with the west line of revised plan of section no. 1-Blue
                     Ridge Manor.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
110.4    4-27-1987   Reducing the boundaries of the city beginning at the
                     northwest corner of the Sycamore Condominium Tract.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
110.5    1-25-1988   Reducing the boundaries of the city beginning at the
                     northwest corner of the Sycamore Condominium Tract.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13       8-25-1981   Granting a community antenna television system franchise
                     to Storer.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                     Creating a franchise for erecting, laying, and maintaining
240.4    11-15-1984  electric and gas facilities in the city for furnishing and
                     selling electricity and gas by means of said facilities.
                   (Prior Code, TSO Table II)
                     Interlocal Coorperation Agreement with Louisville/Jeffers
4-2016   6-30-2016   on County Metro Government to provide a uniform
                     franchising process for communications services for 20
                     years.
1-2025   4-28-2025   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a uniform franchise
                     agreement with Lumos Fiber of Kentucky LLC for 20 years.
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Establishing the dedication of roads within the city for “Public Use,” being
4-   6-25-  Rosewood Drive as set forth in the plat of Shelby Pointe Condominium, section 1,
2018 2018   and Rosewood Drive and Rosewood Court as set forth in the plat of Shelby Pointe
            Condominium, section 2.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite                     Code Section
6.050                        32.42
Chapter 13B                  92.06
Chapter 13A                  92.02
15.409                       34.26
18A.225(2)                   113.03
Chapter 31                   34.26
Chapter 45A                  34.26
Chapter 56                   34.26
Chapter 61                   32.16
61.168                       34.26
61.169                       34.26
61.805 et seq.               32.16
61.810                       36.61
61.820                       32.16
61.823(2)                    151.20
61.823(3)                    151.20
61.823(4)                    151.20
61.870                       36.65
61.870 through 61.882        31.31
                             34.15;
                             34.26;
61.870 through 61.884        34.27;
                             36.58;
                             36.64;
                             36.65
61.870(1)                    34.01
61.870(2)                    34.01
61.870(3)                    34.01
61.870(4)                    34.01
61.870(5)                    34.01
61.870(6)                    34.01
61.870(7)                    34.01
61.870(8)                    34.01
61.870(9)                    34.01
61.870(10)                   34.01
61.872 through 61.884        36.20
61.872(1)                    34.15
61.872(2)                    34.15
61.872(3)                    34.15
61.872(4)                    34.16
61.872(5)                    34.17
61.872(6)                    34.18
61.874(1)                    34.22
61.874(2)                    34.22
61.874(3)                    34.23
61.874(4)                    34.23
61.874(5)                    34.24
61.874(6)                    34.25
61.878                       34.01
61.878(1)                    34.26
61.878(2)                    34.26
61.878(3)                    34.26
61.878(4)                    34.26
61.878(5)                    34.26
61.878(6)                    34.26
61.880(1)                    34.19
61.884                       34.21
62.060                       31.04
65.003                       36.02
65.003                       36.03
65.067                       31.04
65.8840(1)(b)                91.01
65.8840(1)(e)                91.01
65.8840(1)(h)                91.01
65.8840(1)(j)                91.01
65.8840(3)                   91.04
65.8840(4)                   91.04
65.8840(5)                   91.04
65.8840(6)                   91.04
65.8840(7)                   91.04
65.8840(8)                   91.04
65.8840(9)                   91.04
65.8840(10)                  91.04
65.8840(12)                  91.04
65.8840(13)                  91.04
65.8840(14)                  91.04
66.660                       151.06
82.082                       36.02
Chapter 83A                  31.15
83A.010                      30.01
83A.010(3)                   10.02
83A.010(6)                   10.02
83A.010(8)                   10.02
83A.030(2)                   30.02
83A.040(1)                   31.16
83A.040(2)(a)                31.16
83A.040(2)(b)                31.16
83A.040(2)(d)                31.16
83A.040(3)                   31.16
83A.040(4)                   32.01
83A.040(5)                   32.02
83A.040(6)                   31.16;
                             32.02
83A.040(7)                   31.16;
                             32.02
83A.040(8)                   31.16;
                             32.02
83A.040(9)                   31.03
83A.050                      31.15;
                             32.01
83A.060(1)                   32.30
83A.060(2)                   32.31
83A.060(3)                   32.32
83A.060(4)                   32.33
83A.060(5)                   32.34
83A.060(6)                   32.17
83A.060(7)                   32.33
83A.060(8)                   32.16;
                             32.35
83A.060(8)(a)                32.36
83A.060(8)(b)                32.36
83A.060(9)                   32.37
83A.060(10)                  32.38
83A.060(11)                  32.39
83A.060(12)                  32.40
83A.060(13)                  32.40
83A.060(14)                  32.41
83A.060(15)                  32.42
83A.065                      10.99
83A.065(2)                   152.99
83A.070                      31.02
83A.070(1)                   31.02
83A.070(2)                   31.02
83A.070(3)                   31.02
83A.075                      31.02
83A.080                      36.04
83A.080(1)                   31.30
83A.080(2)                   31.30
                             31.03;
83A.080(3)                   31.30—
                             31.32
83A.080(4)                   31.15
83A.080(5)                   31.15
83A.090                      32.04
83A.130 through 83A.150      31.16
83A.140(1)                   30.01
83A.140(2)                   30.02
83A.140(3)                   32.03
83A.140(4)                   31.16;
                             32.15
83A.140(5)                   32.03
83A.140(6)                   32.04
83A.140(7)                   32.16
83A.140(8)                   32.03
83A.175                      32.02
91A.010(4)                   10.02
91A.010(8)                   10.02
91A.030(7)                   35.01
Chapters 116 through 121     31.15
118.305(7)                   31.16;
                             32.02
131.010(6)                   113.04
131.190                      34.26
139.200                      92.03
Chapter 154                  34.26
174.100(1)                   151.20
174.100(2)                   151.21
174.100(3)                   151.22
174.100(4)                   151.23
174.100(5)                   151.24
174.100(6)                   151.25
178.290                      151.06
189.285                      73.03
189.287                      73.02
189.635(9)(b)1.a. through e. 34.01
190.010(6)                   91.04
190.010(8)                   91.04
190.010(11)                  91.04
196.099                      34.01
Chapter 198B                 150.04
198B.070                     150.04
224.1-410                    91.04
226.010                      112.01
226.020                      112.02
226.030                      112.07
226.040                      112.03
226.050                      112.04
226.060                      112.08
226.070                      112.03
226.080                      112.05
226.090                      112.06
226.100                      112.08
226.990(1)                   112.99
226.990(3)                   112.99
227.330(6)                   92.03
227.550                      91.04
227.700 through 227.750      92.01;
                             92.06
227.702                      92.01
227.704                      92.01
227.706                      92.01
227.708                      92.01
227.710                      92.02
227.715                      92.02;
                             92.03
227.720                      92.04
227.730                      92.05
227.750                      92.06
227.990(1)                   150.99
227.990(4)                   92.99
243.040(3)                   114.01
257.010                      90.01
257.100                      90.06
258.095 through 258.500      90.03
281.010                      91.04
318.990                      150.99
Chapter 342                  113.03
Chapter 424                  32.37
436.600                      90.04;
                             90.99
446.010(1)                   10.02
446.010(2)                   10.02
446.010(9)                   10.02
446.010(10)                  10.02
446.010(12)                  10.02
446.010(13)                  10.02
446.010(14)                  10.02
446.010(15)                  10.02
446.010(17)                  10.02
446.010(18)                  10.02
446.010(23)                  10.02
446.010(25)                  10.02
446.010(26)                  10.02
446.010(27)                  10.02
446.010(28)                  10.02
446.010(30)                  10.02
446.010(31)                  10.02
446.010(33)                  10.02
446.010(37)                  10.02
446.010(39)                  10.02
446.010(43)                  10.02
446.010(46)                  10.02
446.010(47)                  10.02
446.010(49)                  10.02
446.010(55)                  10.02
446.020(1)                   10.03
446.020(2)                   10.03
446.030                      10.04
446.050                      10.05
446.060                      10.06
446.080(1)                   10.03
446.080(3)                   10.03
446.080(4)                   10.03
446.090                      10.07
446.100                      10.08
446.110                      10.09
446.140                      10.01
520.010                      34.01
525.125                      90.03
525.130                      90.03;
                             90.99
534.040(2)(a)                152.99
534.040(2)(c)                10.99
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code  2026 Code
31.22       31.17
31.38       31.33
35.02       35.02
35.03       35.03
50.01       50.01
50.02       50.02
70.01       70.01
70.02       70.02
70.03       70.03
70.10       70.15
71.02       71.02
71.03       71.03
71.99       71.99
72.01       72.01
72.02       72.02
72.03       72.03
72.04       72.04
72.99       72.99
73.01       73.01
73.02       73.02
90.15       90.20
90.19       90.24
90.21       90.26
92.20       91.20
92.21       91.21
92.30       91.35
92.31       91.36
92.99       91.99
95.01       94.01
95.02       94.02
95.03       94.03
95.04       94.04
95.20       94.15
95.21       94.16
95.22       94.17
95.23       94.18
95.24       94.19
95.25       94.20
95.26       94.21
95.27       94.22
95.28       94.23
95.29       94.24
95.31       94.26
95.40       94.30
95.41       94.31
95.42       94.32
95.99       94.99
114.01      114.01
114.02      114.02
115.01      115.01
115.02      115.02
115.03      115.03
115.04      115.04
115.05      115.05
115.06      115.06
115.07      115.07
115.08      115.08
115.09      115.09
115.10      115.10
115.11      115.11
115.12      115.12
115.13      115.13
115.14      115.14
115.15      115.15
115.16      115.16
115.17      115.17
115.18      115.18
115.19      115.19
115.20      115.20
115.21      115.21
115.22      115.22
115.23      115.23
115.24      115.24
115.25      115.25
115.26      115.26
115.27      115.27
115.28      115.28
115.29      115.29
115.30      115.30
115.31      115.31
115.99      115.99
150.03      150.03
150.99      150.99
SO Table I  TSO Table I
SO Table II TSO Table II
            
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
8           6-11-1973   TSO Table I
10          7-9-1973    TSO Table I
10          11-7-1975   TSO Table I
2           1-1-1976    TSO Table I
2           12-15-1976  TSO Table I
10          6-26-1978   TSO Table I
17          11-27-1978  TSO Table I
3           2-25-1980   114.01;
                        114.02
110.2       5-25-1981   TSO Table I
                        115.01—
240.2       5-25-1981   115.31;
                        115.99
13          8-25-1981   TSO Table II
110.3       8-25-1981   TSO Table I
830.2       - -1982     50.01
130.1       1-25-1982   32.16
240.4       11-15-1984  TSO Table II
910.1       11-15-1984  35.03
                        94.01—
                        94.04;
700.1       12-16-1985  94.15—
                        94.24;
                        94.26; 94.30—94.32;
                        94.99
220.19      4-28-1986   31.17
830.7       12-15-1986  50.01
110.4       4-27-1987   TSO Table I
410.1       4-27-1987   114.01;
                        114.02
830.8       12-28-1987  50.01
110.5       1-25-1988   TSO Table I
830.9       11-28-1988  50.01
830.10      12-12-1989  50.01
2-1990      6-25-1990   35.01
113.06-1991 9-23-1991   113.01—
                        113.05
4-2011      7-13-2011   31.32
5-2011      7-13-2011   31.31
6-2011      7-13-2011   31.34
                        152.15—
3-2012      - -2012     152.17;
                        152.99
                        152.01—
8-2011      2-27-2012   152.03;
                        152.99
                        93.20;
-           1-27-2014   93.21;
                        93.99
1-2014      3-24-2014   94.25
                        71.01;
1-2016      1-25-2016   71.99;
                        72.01;
                        72.99
4-2016      6-30-2016   TSO Table II
                        116.01—
1-2018      1-22-2018   116.05;
                        116.99
4-2018      6-25-2018   TSO Table III
1-2019      3-25-2019   33.01—
                        33.05
                        36.01—
                        36.04;
                        36.15—
                        36.23;
3-2020      9-28-2020   36.35—
                        36.40;
                        36.55—
                        36.65;
                        36.99
1-2024      1-22-2024   32.16
1-2025      4-28-2025   TSO Table II
2-2025      6-23-2025   35.15
3-2025      6-23-2025   35.01
                        111.01—
1-2026      3-23-2026   111.07;
                        111.99
                       
 
 
